ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3480	Ladies and gentlemen! I can welcome you all and open the 165. Meeting of the National Council. I declare that the official protocols of 162 and 163. Meeting of 4. ==References====External links== Meeting of 25 March 1990 In March 1999, the European Parliament's Directorate remained open and unconstrained. They are therefore considered approved. Members Smolle, Motter, Applebeck and Dr. Mertel are reported to be prevented for today's meeting. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3514	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the MEPs are allowed to do so. Walter Guggenberger, Dr. Jörg Haider, Wilfried Tilg and Georg Wurmitzer have renounced their mandates and in their place, Gerhard Reheis, Dr. Liane Höbinger-Lehrer, Ing. Walter Meischberger and Dkfm. Dieter Teller was appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate of three of these Members is present and the three Members mentioned are also in the House – to my colleague Mr Meischberger I will then take a separate position – we will immediately make the fishing visit of the three Members present in the House. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I should like to ask Mrs Ludmilla Parfuss, the rapporteur, to read the text of the vow and to call on those concerned.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3538	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." Mr. Gerhard Reheis.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3556	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3572	Mrs. Dr. Liane Höbinger-Teacher.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3587	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3602	Mr Dkfm. Dieter Teller.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3618	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3633	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I have already mentioned, the Federal Electoral Authority has also received the notification that Mr Wilfried Tilg has abstained from his mandate and in his place, Ing. Walter Meischberger was appointed to the National Council. In this case too, as I have already told you, there is a vote. Since Deputies Ing. However, after all the information available to me is not present at present in the house, I cannot do his fishing now. I therefore send to the Member of Parliament, within the meaning of § 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, the invitation or the request to appear in the National Council and to make the fishing observation in the form provided for in § 2 of the Rules of Procedure upon re-entry into the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] On business treatment Mr Deputies Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3672	Mr President. High house! Paragraph 9 of the Rules of Procedure provides that each Member of Parliament whose office is in the Directorate of Parliament shall have its seat and vote in the National Council for the duration of the respective legislative period. This means that Mr Meischberger is a member of this House, that he enjoys all the rights of his mandate. This means that from now on he is immune that, in addition to the reference he does not receive, of course, this time is also applicable to pension rights accordingly. This is further evidence that the democratic treaty of the Freeman is at best a piece of paper. Value is nothing at all!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3710	Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure is to be understood in such a way that a Member of Parliament acquires the status as a Member of the European Parliament at the moment of the election. This is the case in all comments, which is a constant practice. However, it is also the compelling obligation of a Member to make the fishing observation, and that was also the reason why I invited and asked Mr Meischberger to appear at the meeting and to do the fishing. I do not have any further comments on the Rules of Procedure. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3738	I declare that the Federal Chancellery on the compensation of the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and Family Dr. Bartenstein is represented by Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner. I also inform you that yesterday a letter from the Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven's office was received, according to which Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Fassleven was ill and his work at the earliest on 23 March. ==References====External links== Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3765	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject "Industrial competition law destroys the market: We all pay the bill!"
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3786	First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Peter. His speaking time is up to 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3808	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning! Good morning, Austria, which is still in a deep sleep in competition law. Competition is the enemy of the powerful, both in politics and in the economy. Especially in the economy there is the constant temptation for companies, the greater they will, by merger, by merging, to increase their own power on the market, so to have more influence on the market than it would allow for effective competition. This undertaking's persistently inherent attempt to improve its positions in competition must, by means of a reasonable right of competition and antitrust law, introduce a barge where these undertakings are trying to remove the forces of the market, the regulatory mechanism, from the market. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The task of policy is therefore to set up an independent competition and antitrust authority and to define with it not only the market and its boundaries – for only by defined boundaries will a market become a market – but on the other hand to ensure the functioning of monitoring and monitoring. It was a few days ago the highly respected EU Commissioner van Miert in Austria. At the invitation of the Kreisky Foundation, he spoke about competition policy and, I believe, has shaped the very important sentence: Competition policy is an instrument, but not an ideology. So we are talking about a truly ideology-free area. We are talking about an area where policy-defined markets are being monitored and cartels and agreements are prevented. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen: The market is nothing but a discovery process, but a method for discovering the best solution, the best product, the best service, all at the lowest cost and the greatest advantage for consumers. These markets are constantly changing. They are of different duration, they are of a rapidly changing size. Austria has been a member of the European Union since 1995, and today we have an inflation rate of 0.4 percent. What happened? We do not only have a greater quality of products, we do not only have a greater variety of products, and the yogurt with the loops, dear new Mr. Clubobmann of the Freeman, still does not exist. These lices were a terror which the liberals believed to have to paint on the wall before joining the EU. But thanks be to God, the Austrians did not believe it in two thirds. Membership in the European Union has therefore brought more competition. It has made this market, which makes the discovery process better, and the effects for us Austrians are lower prices and better product quality. This is an example of how the market works. The globalisation we are experiencing is nothing but a flow of new markets that are emerging. New transport systems, through new information systems, create new larger markets, to which companies face mergers, through mergers. In particular, there is competition law, antitrust law, the right to accompany these mergers is infinitely important. Imagine what would happen if there were no competition authority if there were not a van Miert in Brussels! I hope that the Commission will also be smart enough under Prodi to leave this competition authority undivided as it is and as it has proved to be in recent years. Think about the merge of Daimler-Benz with Chrysler. Think of the attempt to merge that thank God was partially disabled by Boeing and McDonald. Think of the Billa Rewe deal in Austria, Meinl! That's what the competition authority said: This and this is possible, and we cannot allow that in the sense of a functioning competition in Austria. The same applies to a concentration of German Telekom and Italian Telecom. Ideology-free and market economy-conformity should be identified as follows: Is also after this merger, after this new partnership – which also involves Austria over max. mobile and via the fixed network of Telekom Austria – a real competition guaranteed? In structural changes in the economy, this accompanying control on the market is a very high requirement for competition authorities. The guarantee of a functioning competition is an original, primary state task, to which we liberals, who are very, very critical of the state's omnipotence, say a clear yes. So many other tasks of the State no longer have to be fulfilled, because it cannot justify them anymore, so much so that we believe that a new primary state task is created in antitrust law in particular. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has failed. Think of Kro-Ku-WAZ! There is otherwise no developed democracy. Think of the beer market with a brewing stake AG, which has two thirds of the beer emissions in Austria in hand! The antitrust authority has not responded, it has not even been requested by the official parties. Think of our banking landscape, which still has cartel-like agreements in exchange, even in the euro age, which ultimately lead to excessive fees and exchange commissions! And please think of this improper behavioral cartel at the prices of petrol companies! What has this Federal Government done, Minister of State? You have not made a proposal for a good and sharp antitrust right, no, you have tried the economic governance laws. In a night and fog action, you have amended the Price Act so that you can set prices. And this is on the basis of a proposal from Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner, who, coming from the social partners, knows the market economy! Why, Mr Minister, did you not have the courage to install a real antitrust law in Austria, a antitrust law that prevented all these parliamentary abstinences, this parliamentary nightmare that we must have dealt with here in March? We do not need price laws, we need a good and sharp antitrust law to protect the rights of consumers. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The proposal for an amendment to the antitrust law which you, Mr Federal Minister, will present to us in Parliament is unacceptable. It is all further firmly in social partnership hands, and the official parties will not or will only be inhibited. In this context, the old sentence applies: One crow doesn't hack out the other's eye. The new amendment to the antitrust law is also seen very critically by the Federal Minister for Justice, who believes that the essential things were missing: ensuring a comprehensive competence of the federal government, reducing the exceptions to the antitrust law – most importantly, Federal Minister Farnleitner! – the conversion of the antitrust law to a general prohibition principle based on the model of EC competition law and a whole or part of a ban on association recommendations. You know: These non-binding guide prices in sales, with so many articles, go at the expense of consumers, shut down competition and do not give the possibility that the price actually applies on the market – the market as a discovery process – which creates the greatest advantage for customers. And, Mr Federal Minister, you will not be able to do so again, in Austria we have a cartel attorney, a cartel lawyer who is located like a public prosecutor in the Ministry of Justice and whose task it is to observe from his office the competition in Austria, whose task is to act on behalf of the public where there are obvious violations of competition law and, of course, to act on facts. We do not need any official parties to that end, and we do not need a social partnership. This works in all developed Western democracies – unfortunately not in Austria! - Very, very good. Federal Minister! We Liberals have clearly told you where the trip is going. We have clearly said that the Bundeskartelanwalt is the central issue. Only in this way can you redesign competition law in Austria. Many economic benchmarkings state: The less state, the more growth. The more freedom, the more prosperity. – A clear commitment to deregulation, which, however, only leads to more competition and thus better performance for consumers when it takes place on functioning markets. We in Austria are really still in the early hours of a competition right, and I hope that this federal government – no longer in this period, because the presentation of antitrust law is insufficient – and its successor Austria in competition law brings to them that consumers have an advantage of what free, well-functioning markets have to offer them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3916	Mr Bundesminister spoke on the topic of the current hour. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e3937	Mr President. High house! With regard to the basic analysis of market and competition, I cannot dispute with Mr Peter, since we have the same opinion. You have only addressed some points, Mr Deputies. I am not responsible for the antitrust law in Austria, but will allow me to say something on this issue here. You were attracted to the banks. The banks had only an EU budget search, and those who still dared to make agreements would have to act really grossly negligently. As far as the fuel price is concerned, I'm going to deal with a few things. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If one speaks about competition policy in Austria, one must also consider – and allow me only a few comments on the history of the role of competition in Austria –: The Austrian reconstruction history, the economic success story of this country arose from the failing situation of post-war times. At that time, the traditional concept of competition policy stated: If you notice a lack, notice a scarcity, make a market regulation, regulate production and prices, and then there will be an abundance of products and services. – This was the strategy and philosophy that dominated this country until the 1970s. High house! Now we are faced with a completely different situation. Today, the situation of competition in Austria is determined by four strategic components. The first component is, started in the 1950s, but enhanced by integration, free trade. More sectors of the Austrian economy than ever are now part of the open sector. An undisputed example: When we approached the EU, we had an open sector of about 30 percent of gross domestic product. Since accession to the EU and since the liberalisation that has taken place in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen in the economic research institutes, we have an open sector of about 60 to 70 percent of GDP, but we still have a block of protection. I'll come to talk for a moment. The second determination factor: A country that has entered the postmodern industrial and service society from history with so many dense regulations has become the second determinant liberalisation, deregulation and dynamization of framework conditions. In recent years, the House has adopted a large number of decisions – I am thinking of opening up shops, business regulations, energy, electricity, and I am thinking of the forthcoming decision on gas. One point will still be to discuss: the question of the elimination of barrier standards in Austria. An example of this also later. The third component, ladies and gentlemen, has become the mobile consumer today, who can take care of everything over the Internet, about free, uncontrolled border crossing. I use the example made yesterday by the bank president: We can discuss what we want from the interest rate landscape in Austria. One simply gets a franc credit and finances by 1.5 percent, and in some sectors we sit on our funded loans on it. This means – third dimension –: The competitor, the participating consumer or entrepreneur has become aware that all direct access is available to him. And now comes the fourth strategic answer. In Austria, until a few years ago, we had a situation in which competitors were protected in competition law rather than competition; UWG as an example. And if we will have to discuss the amendment to the antitrust law to be submitted to the Council of Ministers in just a few days or my knowledge in a few weeks, it will be about: How do you effectively protect competition and not competitors? I can say that the Minister of Justice has informed me that, after an agreement at expert level, the Council of Ministers will, over the next two weeks, forward to the House a draft government proposal containing, in any case, the official procedure by the cartel court, an intensification of the uptake criteria and the presumption of market power. There will also be some other changes. It also includes, for example, the prohibition of selling under the acquisition price for dominant companies as a criterion of abuse. But I'll add: I have today received a recent opinion from the European Union, which has just been given to us from the House. It concerns the Commission's recommendation on the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States of the Community. In this publication or in this note, in this accompanying letter. April is explicitly stated for Austria: The Austrian antitrust law of 1988 is not in line with Community law. However, the government plans to reform the law and establish an independent cartel. These reforms should be implemented as soon as possible. I admit that we still need action in the area of this independent body, which is not sufficiently formulated in the current novel, but in general, the trend of Austrian antitrust legislation is sufficient if this novelle is to be adopted in this way. Another point: We see, at the current Telekom case, which Mr Peter has also mentioned, that, in a highly structured, competitive industrial and service environment, we can rely more than ever on and even rely on the European Union's competition control, because, for example, the turnover of the companies involved in this merger clearly goes far beyond Austrian competence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, and with this, Mr President, I also come to the conclusion of my statement, I set up a competition service agency in my home, regardless of the development of the antitrust right, a few weeks ago, to ensure that my home plays an active role in competition policy in the future. We have announced a service number at the local rate, and a number of cases have already been submitted to us. In future, we will make use of the right of action on the financial procuratorship. We will continue to take a more intensive part in the European process, and as a result of this institution we can see that companies are turning to us so that we can also act on the question of conciliation. These are things that have previously been traditionally played in the social partners, but are now moving to the public sector. High house! In my opinion, in Austria, we do not have the situation that the lack of antitrust law destroys the market, but in Austria we only had to create many markets in areas where markets did not exist over decades because it was otherwise regulated. With the new antitrust law, we will have an instrument that may still have to be adjusted, but we will ensure that competition in our country continues to be the force for innovation, price stability and entrepreneurial dynamics.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4009	Thank you many times, Minister of State, for the opinion on the subject. We are now entering the debate. The speaking time is 5 minutes. Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4036	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is an important issue, an important issue because, since the Treaty of Rome, competition policy has been an integral part of European integration. A central concern is to prevent any distortion of competition by prohibiting agreements, abuses, dominant positions and unwarranted state aid. – Since the Treaty of Rome, and this development has continued. Competition policy is becoming increasingly important with the creation of the internal market and the introduction of the single currency. A number of legislative initiatives have therefore already been or have been completed in many countries. In Austria we are only at the beginning of this development. An annual report at European level seems useful. I wonder why there is no annual report in Austria, since it is a very important matter that should concern us all. It has even been agreed that discussions will be held between the Commission and the European Parliament in order to formalise the reporting, which is now taking place on an informal basis, and to sign a cooperation agreement to discuss the effects of competition policy with the European Parliament. I would like, Mr Federal Minister, that you give the European Parliamentary support to ensure that democratic control can take place at this level and that there is no need to ask and beg before the Commission's doors to achieve what consumers want: that competition is guaranteed in such a way that there is fairness on the one hand and on the other hand there is also an economy. We need the support of the Council, and there we are missing activities that you could actually set up, Minister of State. With regard to the possibility of complaint, I would just like to refer to the article by Professor Gerhard Clemenz, who says it is actually absurd, because at present the social partners are at the same time prosecutors, experts and judges in this function. This means that the social partners in principle control themselves, he notes, and he raises the question of what to do with it. That would be like he said that the ÖAMTC would be entitled to display excesses of speed limits. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is actually the incongruence of this whole package. Every individual consumer and every individual consumer should be able to open up the channels so that the possibility of complaint is guaranteed, and not, as it is now, only through the social partners, who are actually obliged to their members, while the one who is not a member, who is, so to speak, only "normal" consumers, cannot benefit from these channels. I am sorry that no procedure will be chosen to open up these possibilities. At this point I would like to quote him further: He speaks of the Austrian antitrust law as a "fully toothless instrument". He is actually talking about the creation of a antitrust authority which can already become active in the event of suspicion of abuse and does not wait until an indictment comes. We have seen where it leads to want to regulate petrol prices through a Minister's regulation and not to seek consensus with businesses. I am sorry that one wants to resort to these forced measures and to a policy that was actually on the outside of the wall, i.e. a communist way of thinking according to the motto: I decree! It would be much better if we had effective control of competition, so that on the one hand, no such regulations would be necessary and on the other hand, because these persons are aware of their function, in Austria it would no longer be possible to act in such a way as has happened in the case of petrol prices. This would be in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4094	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4116	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing you have to say in the first place: It may have been an emergency measure to bring about a regulation in the field of petrol with the Price Act, but it has been a need to respond to an incident which I believe was also a provocation. The fact that a rise in the price of petrol was recorded at the time, although it was known that all circumstances were speaking outright, made it necessary to react relatively quickly here. The result has also been correct. It was, of course, an emergency defence measure - and I would like to give it - and it must also be said very self-critically that it would not have been necessary to pursue the competitive situation in this area in the long term with the available resources and did not take up the existing possibilities as if it were a folding knife from case to case. I am also saying this because the antitrust reform could give the impression that the antitrust law which we are currently having does not offer any opportunity at all to act accordingly in the field of petrol pricing, in particular in the field of free competition. [[Abg. May. Peter: Where are the official parties?]] There is certainly the possibility – and this has already been addressed today and has also been informed by the Minister – that it will be used more and more in the future. It is only true that, even in the past, there has been no obstacle to effective use. I am referring here to the possibility of the official parties to act both in the misuse of market power and in the area of merger. There is indeed an official party, namely the financial procuratorship, and this financial procuratorship can or must be carried out through the instructions of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. It will be interesting in this context to determine in what areas this possibility has actually been used in the past. I say this, in particular, because the accusation has already been raised several times, that the Minister has not had the opportunity to do so, and in this context also a cartel office has been requested, which should be located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and which could take over this function. On this occasion I think it is necessary to point out that this antitrust office would not have been necessary if the existing rights had been used accordingly by the existing possibilities. I fully agree – and we are on the same line with many here in the House – that, in addition to the power of office provided for in the present draft law, there should also be a kind of antitrust attorney, the federal attorney, who will automatically examine existing possibilities in this context. However, I would like to point out that this possibility is now in place. There is a complete staff in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which can be used to carry out such checks in this area, so that one cannot at last claim that there are too few possibilities or human resources to deal with abuses of market power or mergers which are not desirable because they result in unwanted concentration of market power. I therefore believe that we must say: This antitrust law 2000, which is currently under discussion, is a step in the right direction. However, it is necessary for us to continue the discussion. I would think that the installation of such a federal lawyer, the antitrust attorney, or whatever he is called, is certainly very useful. However, I believe that this body should be established from the point of view of competence in the area of justice. Finally, I would like to add a second point, which relates to a fundamental aspect of the liberalisation of the economic location. We currently have the situation that the Master Audit Committees are located at the Chambers of Commerce, partly also with the heads of state or country. I think it is important to set a further sign of liberalisation by the fact that, in principle, we are using these audit committees with the heads of state in order to ensure more and more that the possibility of access is not jeopardised by any legal considerations. Ladies and gentlemen! I think, in summary, that the new cartel law 2000 is a step in the right direction, but it requires further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4150	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. Also speaking time 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4172	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖVP has always committed itself to the free market, to the social market economy and thus to competition, as it ensures the best quality and also the best prices. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: But only on Sunday!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: But only on Sunday morning!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The free and equal opportunities competition is ultimately the engine of a functioning market economy-oriented economic system. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you see the electricity market?]] Competition law, especially antitrust law, ladies and gentlemen, keeps or has to do with the market of public and private restrictions on competition. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you see, for example, the electricity market?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is it free?]] The antitrust law provides, in particular, the small and less marketable companies with the appropriate freedom of action on the market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then why don't you do anything?]] We have to take care of this, that is not a question. The economy, and particularly the representation of the economy, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore fundamentally interested in a functioning competition law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the Austrian economy has been able to develop so strongly has also caused competition which has been substantially increasing, especially in recent years, since certain monopolies which have also existed, and which are no longer present. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Competition law in Austria is at least not an invention of the EU. Austria has a long-standing antitrust tradition compared to other European countries. The original antitrust law has been developing increasingly towards EU competition law since the 1970s. In these areas, our current antitrust law, especially the planned antitrust law No. 2000, is even more stringent than EU competition law. This bill is a step in the right direction, because it leads to the modernisation of the Austrian antitrust law. The economy certainly needs a strengthening of the antitrust court as a politically independent execution body – we confess to it – and competition supervision needs to be made even more effective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the cartel court must also be given more resources from the Ministry of Justice in order to be able to work effectively. According to the German law against restrictions on competition, the novelle is also intended to bring about greater control of market power. We therefore also have corresponding demands from the point of view of the economy. These relate to the strengthening of the antitrust court as an independent antitrust authority, to the general reduction of contract fees, at least for small and medium-sized enterprises, because the high procedural costs may not allow some companies to afford to initiate an independent antitrust procedure, and this situation should be eliminated. The increased coordination between the Competition Department in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Cartel Court is also certainly welcome. However, there should also be no watering down of general competition rights by means of unfairly justified special arrangements, such as those provided for by the Minister of Transport in the new Rail Market Regulation Act. We don't want that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want a fair, functioning competition, which also gives small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to participate successfully in the competition.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4310	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4331	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If there had been any further evidence of the contradiction within the coalition, he would have been delivered with this Maderthaner speech. Mr Maderthaner, you have just said the opposite of what the Federal Minister has just quoted in his implementation of the EU letter. It is precisely in this letter, in this note, that this "cartel law" - under quotation marks - from 1988 is unacceptable, and you have spoken of a traditionally good development of the antitrust right! This is a nonsensus, Mr Maderthaner, a nonsensus special! The fact is, Mr Federal Minister, that you too have not done the homework. We will not descend from this claim, because you have also provided proof of it today. In your words, it is quite the case that EU membership is "break-up" over Austria, and it is just so that the rough wind blows. – Well, of course, the rough wind blows, we know that exactly, but just because of this you would have had to create a antitrust right in advance in order to deliver to the middle-sizers a proper competition law that would guarantee equal opportunities. That's why it's not about anything else, Minister of State. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, the question arises again and again how far the state may interfere in the market. There is always a discussion on where to draw the border. The Liberals are perhaps a little further than we are, because we also want to create a certain equality of opportunity for the middle class. Of course, legal measures must not eliminate innovation or competition. That is of course. In this field of tension, the legislative moves. However, you have avoided this field of tension. You have not actually worked here innovatorically legalized as you demand from the economy every day. And that's the problem. The sheriff is getting more and more apart: On the one hand, however, one needs to intervene with steering laws, but on the other hand one is not prepared to place a right of cartel on the legs, which offers the possibility of delivering fair fuel prices, fair electricity prices and fair banking conditions for the consumer. Let us remember, Minister of State, when the day came and the squats were already pewing from the roofs that the so-called Lombard club had obviously made forbidden agreements. Mr van Miert had to intervene – in Austria there was silence in the forest. The reason for this is also that, Mr Maderthaner, the social partners are of course also part of the game. That means you wanted to drive the devil out with the Beelzebub, right? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler.]] So these are the problems we face. If you, Mr Maderthaner, are blue-eyed today to say that we have to create fair framework conditions for the so poor and indignant small and medium-sized enterprises and that everything is too expensive, I ask you: Who put the whole thing in, Mr Maderthaner, if not you and the Federal Minister sitting behind me? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You prevented it! You, Mr. Federal Minister, have already answered us in a question dated 23. On a request from me from 1998 I promised the following: "But I am aware of the economic importance of the antitrust law and therefore I am committed to a fundamental renewal of the Austrian antitrust law in a material and institutional way." – You promised that in a parliamentary response. What is the point of this proposal that is being pursued by the countries? He is again Husch and Push, and I tell you that this antitrust law, in the form in which it is now on the table and in review, does not correspond to the EU's intentions, not to the intentions of consumers, and even to those of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the problem we have. That is to say, we have no fair framework conditions, no market opportunities of the same nature, but it is again tailored to the great ones, who obviously have more influence in you than those whom you always pretend to represent, namely the small and medium-sized economy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also concerns all the questions relating to the prohibition of sales under the price of income. This is not a regulatory measure to protect someone, but it is a question of using market power in such a way that we have structures in this country where work is dominant for all in healthy businesses, Minister of the State. There must be almost the hair of mountains for you if you have to let these Sunday speeches pass over you like a Tibetan prayer mill. I say quite frankly, Helmut Peter is a fighter in this field, and many of his demands can be signed. Why don't you just say: The opposition is right in the sense that we should together create a right which is actually due to the name it bears. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! I say quite clearly to you: They have failed in these areas up to date, just like the whole coalition. To the Social Democrats I would like to say the following: Mr. Jarolim has said that we must have justice here. It is very interesting – the final point, Mr Maderthaner – what was said by the board in an opinion on a UWG novelle – I quote: In my opinion, according to the applicable constitutional law, a suitable regulation of the ban on sales under the claim price was possible at any time. At the moment, however, only the SPÖ does not want it politically. In doing so, the ÖVP has expressed: There's nothing we can do. The SPÖ does not wish for that. We do not make antitrust law, we do not make modern UWG, but we wash our hands in innocence. And then you say five minutes ago twelve: We are industrious anyway, knowing that you will no longer carry out this in this GP.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4426	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, yes, this is the case: The antitrust law has no tradition in Austria, the monopoly supervision has no tradition in Austria, preventing the abuse of market power has no tradition in Austria. This is also due, among other things, to the fact that, I think, you could have stressed more calmly that the social partners were not interested in it in the past. Never! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it! That's right!]] Instead, the whole is only broken up in the course of EU accession. EU accession has become more competitive. The EU accession has made sure that Van Miert, who is really one of the best Commissioners in the whole Commission, could take his task seriously in Austria too – I call it Meinl and Rewe or the banks' already mentioned interest agreements – van Miert has even dared to stop mergers of television companies. This was noted against the background of the media concentration in Austria. This is an blatant failure of the social partners in the past. I think most of the people in this House know that I have always appreciated the social partners as a body for trying to find a consensus. That makes sense – where it is right. In the past, however, the social partners have always been closed to third-party cartels, at the expense of consumers, where they have been left to themselves, in market markets that are typical of the sugar industry. This was, of course, the most convenient thing: to shut the market out, to divide the market among themselves. This was in the interest of the sugar barons or the Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Agriculture and the trade unions have agreed to this for decades. This was, of course, not a proper way in the long term, because the adaptation processes in the food sector after accession to the EU were all the more difficult. But for decades it was a very comfortable way. I therefore cannot really take seriously Mr Maderthaner's statement that the ÖVP has always been familiar with the market economy, because there are a thousand examples of the fact that the ÖVP, and especially the Federal Chamber of Commerce, did not acquire major Merites in promoting competition. [[Abg. May. Peter: She's a trade defence club!]] I can remember that at the end of the 1980s – at that time I was still a good socialist – at a meeting in the Ministry of Finance Minister Lacina, when it came to whether Austria should join the EU or not – at that time I was still a great skeptic – said: But otherwise, you know, it's not possible to break up the nested structures in Austria. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's right!]] I didn't know exactly what he meant at the time. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's right!]] I've already associated: It may be that it is about the Raiffeisen sector, the food sector and so on – but I do not want to do so in detail now. In fact, he was right: Only through the accession of the EU has it been possible to break up this part of the structures that are covered. With others we are only at the beginning. Minister Farnleitner! Let's hope for the best! They have said that the antitrust law will follow the principle: How to protect the competition? and not as before: How do we protect competitors from competition? – That would be a complete break with the Austrian tradition. I wish you all the best in this relationship and I will be glad if I can be surprised by you positively.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4523	The Federal Minister has been reported to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4545	Mr President. High house! It pushes me to make some clarifications. I agree with Professor Van der Bellen and others completely agree – I was myself part of the system, like many here in the hall: By about 1991 we had priced the prices of 200 major sectors in Austria through the price subcommittee of the Joint Commission, because at that time it was state-of-the-art in Austrian economic policy that the social partners jointly defined the national economic justification of prices. This has also been part of my professional career, and we have not done so badly in the international comparison in very uncertain times. The same is true of the experience that Professor Van der Bellen has quoted: It has never been disputed among the social partners that accession to the European Union is a necessary vehicle in order to actually liberalize the structures established until then. This has happened in the market order: 100 registered price and quota cartels have disappeared, we have no more registered. Again: Two things about the new antitrust law I say quite clearly: One of the most important points in the new antitrust law is that the behavioural cartels will in future be subject to the prohibition principle. This means that the famous coordinated behaviors are no longer as easy to celebrate as they have been so far. The second point I would like to make in order to clear a misunderstanding is the following: It was not true that the companies had no right of action since the antitrust law in 1988. The point is only if you look at the Austrian market structure: Who dares to complain? On the other hand, it's always said we won't need a judge. That's why we'd rather intervene a hundred times. If a breach in the system occurs in the way that a different antitrust court is designed to establish a different working authority, it will be different. I would also like to make a point of reference for the presentation of Mr Jarolim: I have never called for the independent antitrust office to be established at the economic resort, but we have called for an independent body to be established, and this independent body could, in essence, consist of the competition force now organized with me, which would have just passed into this function. - That's just for clarification. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now another conclusion to the competition: A country which, according to EU figures, has 0.1 percent inflation, in which we see that, in several sectors still under high-priced, prices are now breaking out, this is important, and I would also like to say to the honesty, because I did not want to say it first because of the ten-minute limit: We still have some "pockets of resistance", as it is so beautiful, some sectors in which we have to put ourselves very constructively into a targeted competition policy, as dangerous as it may always be. Some examples: We still have a long-awaited pharmaceutical price regime where costs are produced and not competition is produced. First point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Liberal Forum.]] Second point: If we look at the rules on agricultural resources we still have, for example, that a tractor authorised in Germany must be left in Austria, that the lamps must be put in place and that twenty thousand schillings must be paid for, which recognizes that we have housework in front of us, which we must do quickly, because agriculture is exposed to competition. [[Acclaim with the ÖVP, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] The same applies to veterinary products: an authorisation procedure, mutual... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer:... tell what you did not do!]] Because you mean, "He's already announcing something!" and because the Liberal Forum, because Mrs Gredler asked me, I say immediately that we have not yet refused any information from any of the Members of the European Parliament for which he has asked us! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But when you come to the government, you will do it!]] Secondly, It was under my chairmanship of the Industrieministerium Council that we have largely completed the late payment directive. I hope that this directive will be completed in the next Council of Ministers for Industry, because one of the biggest deficits in the Austrian competition is the fact that, as far as payment is concerned, the small ones have become the home banks of the great. If there is a Europe-wide arrangement here, we could put it into mandatory law in Austria for companies that are partly dominant in the market. I hope that this European regulation will be adopted soon. Another point – I only mention rent on the edge – which is very important is the entire credit card sector. There are procedures here, here there are tests, because one thing is clear: Of course, these nests of resistance for still protected areas are also the focus of the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4611	The next speaker is Mr Dr Kier. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4633	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner now surprised me. I'm afraid he's tired, because what he's asking for and proposing is so right that I ask myself: Why does he now dare to say that – no, you are not a coward, Mr Federal Minister, I do not mean that – although he is aware that precisely these aspects, which he has mentioned, have not yet been implemented in Austria for good reasons, because – and that is where I refer to Van der Bellen – the social partners are standing on top of all the possible brakes in this world? [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner]] On everyone! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: It's not true at all!]] Because this would ultimately mean some of their self-esteem, and who would like to be involved in his self-esteem? It is system-immanent that we are in a field of tension between the point of view: I have the monopoly on the representation of everyone and everyone, and if you are not willing, I need legal force! on the one hand and competition on the other. That's a contrast that couldn't be bigger at all! I remember the outcome of the accession negotiations with the European Union, how happy and proud our economic chamberers were that they have insisted that, with the help of the Austrian trade regulations, they can continue to discriminate against traders in Austria in the future. The only condition of the European Union was that EU citizens should no longer be discriminated against, but the negotiators in Brussels were unconstitutional about the fact that an economic representative organisation is committed to keeping its members down as far as possible, as far as commercial freedom is concerned. [[Abg. May. Peter: But the domestics may be more discriminated against!]] You have thought that if Austria does itself deal with such competitive disadvantages and does not allow itself to be talked about in negotiations, then we have to leave it there, then it wants to remain in its old biotope, where everything is regulated. Federal Minister! You have said some right things, and there have also been remarkable things in the debate. I'm just wondering: Then why doesn't one or the other happen? Why is Mr Maderthaner able to say that he has a fundamental interest and we have a long tradition? This statement regarding the long tradition sounds to me like a dangerous threat, because this long tradition is a tradition of price regulation and industrial insecurity. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Isn't it? That's not true!]] I therefore believe that this aspect is not self-knowledge but Sunday speech. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Sunday speech is not enough for an economic location! [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is an old thought!]] That is not enough, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You don't know what has changed in the market yet!]] Because we continue to protect competitors instead of protecting competition. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You're still talking like ten years ago!]] The Federal Minister has rightly said that we need to protect competition instead of protecting competitors, but we continue to protect competitors by means of a right of marketing authorisation which is seeking to do so and which is ridiculous to the people who want to make themselves independent! - Point one. [[New call of the abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] Point two: Federal Minister! It is true that you are not directly responsible for the antitrust law, but indirectly already. Because I can't imagine a minister of justice who makes a cartel law without taking into account your economic expertise. But you are at the very least responsible for the trade regulations, Mr Federal Minister, and the trade regulation is still a special anti-competitive and anti-competitive instrument – and, once again, I tell you, the invoice we all pay for it every day, and that is something that hurts me – because otherwise the proposed antitrust legislation would not again give the social partners a disproportionate advantage to the extent that it would, of course, provide the antitrust attorney. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: On the contrary! A competitive advantage in the European Union!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: On the contrary! We have the advantage of doing so every day!]] If you have read the drafts of the Minister of Justice, you know that certain reform projects were expressly not included in the draft because they are politically non-enforceable. There are still exceptions to the antitrust law for banks and insurance companies. There is still no ban on non-binding association recommendations. The independent antitrust attorney is far and wide not in sight, the social partners are still mainly the lay judges, and, moreover, that is very important, they are allowed to hold the title "Commercial Council" if they are lay judges. I believe that this could almost be a turning point of the law in the way the social partners think. Because if you are a lay judge in the cartel court, this is an important office, and you don't necessarily have to have the title "Commercial Council" printed on the business card, or use this title as a competitive advantage, because that's a marketing advantage. I mean, if you sit in a antitrust court that can hold a title for competition, so that they can market it, then everything is said about the attitude to fair competition. The vanity is one element, the marketing advantage of being commercial, another. I think it's a pity, and I think you should delete at least that passage to put a small symbol of a change of mind. I fear, however, that the change of mind has not taken place at all. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I am already at the conclusion, Mr President. The change of mind has not taken place at all, otherwise Mr. Federal Minister Farnleitner should not have announced things that could have been done four years ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4791	The next speaker was Mr Kurt Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4813	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter! Competition is a very productive issue; we have already noted this several times. But I do not know exactly how we conduct the competition discussion. In Austria – in this I agree with Mr Haigermoser – we are talking in common about unfair competition, competition in the context of globalisation, restrictions on competition or antitrust measures. It is a comprehensive topic and very important. I would like to quote a few sentences to express the dimension in which this is happening today: The effects of economic globalisation, the global integration of goods, information and capital markets will be experienced by more and more people in their own lives. To this end, a very prominent scientist says: Before the victory over the market economy, we had been drunk for a few years. We have considered the strengthening of competition to be a natural consequence of the victory of the market economy. She was hard, but she had to come after the theory. How's it going? – Professor Ulrich von Weizsäcker. That's the subject. Scientists and practitioners are right to deal with the limits of globalisation, to the extent to which the market is to be released, to what extent there can and must be rules in order not to lead to excessive competition. This is an important issue. There is much that has not yet been said, as the Federal Minister has said. Yesterday we heard the last figures from the control bank. We should all be pleased when it is announced that the direct investment of foreign companies has increased in extreme form precisely because of a functioning market, precisely because many things are better than elsewhere. Now, of course, we can say that is a consequence of EU accession. We have had a reasonable development, the electricity price has been liberalised, the gas price will soon be. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] - The electricity price. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Liberalized?]] Mr President, I should like to thank I quote a man who may not be unknown to you. Dr. Prinzhorn said: Austrian industry has every reason to be cheerfully electrified. According to official statistics, the kilowatt hour of electricity in 1997 cost almost 92 sizes. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] – Princehorn is, I believe, not unknown to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's say it again. The fact that the electricity price is not yet where we would like to see it is another issue, but liberalisation has been launched. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How far are we?]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: Continue than you believe!]] Next topic, Helmut Haigermoser – in 5 minutes you can unfortunately cut only a few important things –: Sale under the price of income. I have a rather critical opinion on this, but I understand... – I hope it will soon become cheaper. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 4.04 S pays Haigermoser for the kilowatt hour! This is the result of electricity price liberalisation!]] I'm just telling you what Princehorn said: Whoever pays more than 55 grand today has done something wrong. That's not what I'm saying, but it's from your corner. Let's just stay under the price of the sale! We know the problem. Except in Austria, sales under the price of income are not a subject in Europe. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The power policy is wrong!]] Let's stay under the price of income when we sell! Unfortunately, it is not possible to deal with every subject in 5 minutes. You said that we were opposed to this being regulated. – We are in favour of ensuring that in the context of the antitrust innovation, the market position is used unjustly... [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's about the conversion costs!]] – Right, there will be a system in this area to counter this. I am still a little reserved for this subject, but that is my personal opinion. In our group we agree that this is to be done within the framework of the antitrust novels. Other topic – I have to conclude, unfortunately –: We will deal with the very good report on small and medium-sized enterprises. If you look at it in terms of the local services we always discuss... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] No, that must be discussed because it is an important issue because it is also a competition issue because it is a question of exploiting the market position. There are analyses and surveys, not only by companies but also by stakeholders, namely consumers. I am surprised at the analyses which have been made, because I also felt that there should be a lot more to be done. But if I see satisfaction with the density of supply, especially in constituencies, then I must honestly say that this should be a little more cautious. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4946	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e4967	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, two comments on two previous speakers, and I begin with Mr Haigermoser. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is it, Pepi?]] Mr Haigermoser attacked Mr Farnleitner and accused him of lack of competition. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard what Mr Farnleitner has done here and what he has announced in recent years with a view to an ever better competition in every statement in the public, I can only say one thing: They would have to cut off a large disc from the competition orientation of the Federal Minister Farnleitner in order to be able to offer him half-way Paroli. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second comment on colleagues Van der Bellen: Mr Van der Bellen focused on the orientation of the People's Party and various groups on the market economy. Mr Van der Bellen! I think I can see one thing: If we let the history of the Second Republic of Revue happen, it was from the beginning, since 1945, in the first years, a monopoly of the Austrian People's Party, which represented the market economy, namely in the formulation of the social market economy. We have actually represented this as the only party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can still recall statements by prominent representatives of other groups in this House who have said: We do not have a market economy, we do not have a social market economy, nor do we need it. – I could quote those statements that have also been made at ministerial level, but I do not want to do so now. But one thing I would like to say: If ever a party has known about the social market economy, it was the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schmidt! One thing is perfectly clear: We are fully familiar with both political systems and economic systems for competition, because we know that there is only a multi-party system in the political field, through the competition of political parties, freedom and choice. Everything else is insecurity, is dictatorship, is one-party rule, and we have the consistent view that all that one-party rule, that dictatorship, which does not result in any competition in the political system, must be opposed by us to a clear no. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to the economic sector. For us, competition, the functioning competition, is a trademark of a sophisticated economic system. Companies that have no competition in the economic sector are non-free companies because they do not give choice, because they do not offer fair opportunities to businesses and businesses, nor do they give consumers the opportunity to obtain cheaper prices through effective competition. That is why we make a clear commitment to a functioning competition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we call this a positive feature, we must also see that, of course, there will always be phenomena in which this is not the case, which is why we must always try to improve competition law. We are now taking this step. We are glad that we have, without a doubt, received a significant boost towards better functioning competition through the accession of the EU. I only mention one example in the few seconds left to me: Let us consider what has been done in the telecommunications sector alone. In 1993, we had 46 working days average waiting time per telephone connection, now there are six. That means, that alone is already a competition.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5044	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5059	I do not wish to mention the more favourable prices in this field of telecommunications. I think a commitment to competition is a question of confession to modern society.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5090	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Karl Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5111	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is already strange if the Minister responsible for economic affairs complains of what would be done to make the Austrian economy competitive, and his party congratulates him on it. Ladies and gentlemen! The gallery no longer understands the world. Who's in the government? Who can set the course apart from you, Federal Minister, and these government parties? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is obviously a complete confusion in this House. Mr Heindl points out the SME report as a sign that our economy is competitive. Mr Heindl, have you read the SME report? – It says that the conditions for survival within the EU are generally very bad. It is particularly difficult, the report says, for example, that the level of additional wage costs, the administrative burden without numbers, the weakness of equity that cannot be eliminated, because the funds are being removed from the pockets of businesses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And to the price competition: Austria is in the top European field with 228 pleas per ten thousand companies, according to Germany's credit reform leader statistics. These are not figures that speak of an effective policy for the economy, ladies and gentlemen. This government, this minister, both have not managed to shape the framework in such a way that SMEs can enter the EU market, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Van der Bellen is right, Mr Federal Minister, when he says that the monopoly supervision does not have a tradition in Austria. – No, you protect the monopolists in this Austria as far as it goes. I will show that because Mr Heindl has brought me to the idea. They have not even managed to allow the SMEs to enjoy the benefits of the free electricity market. You didn't do that. Her jubilation – I took it with me – was: Welcome to the free electricity market! – Please, who are you welcome to the free electricity market? - Some big ones. After decades of monopoly, a cutting date. – For whom, Minister of State? In the run-up to this market opening, significant price reductions have already been made. - For whom? Competitiveness will be significantly increased. – For whom, Minister of State? – 4.10 S is paid by Mr Haigermoser Handelsstrom, 4.10 S for the kilowatt hour! Your ElWOG, Federal Minister, is an example of how you can get the business of the monopolists where you can do something for Austrian businesses – for decades! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] SMEs are excluded – 4,10 S per kilowatt hour – such as Christmas geese, despite electricity market liberalisation, Federal Minister. We pay price customers 2.44 S in Burgenland, and on the free market the electricity is available by 30 to 40 sizes per kilowatt hour. How do you explain the difference, Mr. Federal Minister? This is obviously about securing privileges that have been used to for a longer period of time. Your ElWOG, Federal Minister, is prolonging the burden on SMEs once until 2003. So it is determined, Mr Heindl. Or have you read this differently? You quoted colleagues Prinzhorn. What's that about? This is a business that consumes more than 40 gigawatt hours a year. How many such businesses do we have in Austria, Mr Heindl? – I tell you: In the Burgenland we have a single, the homogene wood Neudörfl, and that's why it's already done. And all the others pay the fixed prices of the monopoliste union and its dependents, the national societies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's a fact! That's where you want to tell us you're doing something for the economy! So far, you haven't made it. You have made it more competitive, Mr Federal Minister, in times when the economy needs any discount like a bite of bread in order to be able to survive, because our businesses are smaller in international comparison, by a law with which you define the monopoly of the union for more years. They cement Austria as electricity price highland, Federal Minister. That's fact. However, we cannot discuss this. Even to the danger that all the EU-disadvantage is that this law is EU-absorbing – I am sure you will have to take note sometime that the European Court of Justice recognizes this law as an EU-unlawful one – and also to the risk that it is unconstitutional, as you have already seen from well-known constitutional judges like Professor Winkler, you are doing all this to the detriment of the Austrian economy. That's fact!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5194	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5216	Mr President. High house! I would like to say a few words at the electricity prices. It's fascinating how to twist things. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes!]] First point: We have the liberalisation over – hear Please give me a moment, I know the figures like you – the first step proposed by the EU, not up to 100 GWh, but up to 40. We have proposed another framework, and you may recall that I have explained in this House: As the market is now developing, the transition period will be much shorter, and I assume that in Austria, as in Sweden and Finland, we will still have the freedom of choice of consumers in the next legislative period. - We've already talked too much about the basic columns. First point. Second point: It is always the talk of the monopoliste union – apparently in this group, as I would like to add – and I can already recall that the combined supply prices to the state companies are on average 64 sizes. If the consumer then gets 4.04 S out of it, then I have to say, I think it's "wonderful" if you "beg". Perhaps this would be a small purchase gift for all of us to think about what distribution costs in the area of electricity. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who must comply with the Treaties? The connection is based on compliance with the supply contracts!]] – Again: 60 grand to 4 pcs. In view of this, it is probably the simplest method. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Another point on power liberalisation: In Austria, industrial electricity prices were at the top of European prices, while industrial prices are in the middle and consumer prices are at the lower level in Europe. Therefore, for the competitiveness of Austria, the electricity price for the industry, for the large consumer side, was clearly the one with the greatest need for action. A final comment on the trade regulation as a competitive brake: I would like to remind you that today, in the trade regulations, we have regulated 800 free registered professions in contrast to 84, with these 84 being mainly the promoters of our apprenticeship training system. I would be more careful with some theses and allegations!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5271	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5292	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! There is no doubt that there needs to be a new antitrust law in Austria – a lot has already been said about this – but I think we also have to ask ourselves the question of why there is such a laborious struggle, such a tough discussion of new open and hidden cartels, which leads to the fact that these non-market-compliant agglomerations are so dominant. I think that's where the state has a huge responsibility. The more the state adopts itself out of social security systems, and the more private people are complicated in a system of pension funds and private provision, the more we buy that more and more anonymous investment funds are overpowering. The fund managers there do not have industrial interests, but they have pure financial investment interests, short-term return interests. These are often no different from those agglomerations, about minimizing overhead costs. I think that without dealing with these phenomena, every antitrust right will always follow the ever-new agglomerations. We need a system of basic state security. That's a public task! And only beyond can and should be welcome private provision. The state must not say goodbye to this basic guarantee, because then there is no minimum pension in that country, no minimum unemployment allowance – nothing like that! This is a public task, and it must be realized! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Headmaster.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But this alone is not enough: I think it takes not only deregulation in many areas, but intelligent regulation. A lot of things went wrong. Also, those who shake their heads in the ÖVP's bank series are saying: Much has gone wrong, and it also tells your traders that some of the regulations have been created, which are not just unbureaucratic, but which harm the interests of those concerned. I can't do this in detail, but just think about the rental right! Remember how many traders had to give up very bureaucratic, difficult-to-executive indicative systems because of one – I say so now! That was bad, that was wrong, that should be corrected. Think of the social infrastructure that has not stood up, which has not changed in conformity with the charging, shop opening times! Think of the women at the registers who do not know where to accommodate their children after 17 or 18 o'clock! This has produced real emergencies! Think of the transport infrastructure! One has clearly demanded and promoted such models as the Shopping City South, and the traders have the disadvantage of doing so. Still build a trail to the South motorway to meet the daily new traffic infarction – this has actually caused massive damage to the local supply. All these are factors that are somehow "passed" – politically not controlled – and I think there is a great need for political action. Another thing: Federal Minister! They have addressed the electricity supply. It is true that a first step has been taken on your part, but I am asking you whether it is not possible for the public authorities to use their property rights in such a way that the energy supply companies cannot demand these prohibitive net tolls as they do. For example, if private individuals want a supply of organic plants – from wind power, biomass – then it is not rare that they have to pay 40 000 S, 50 000 S and more in order to conclude such a contract. There will be a need for legal disputes. I ask you, Minister of State: Isn't it any different, is it not easier? A very last one, Minister of State! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Partly, sub-organisations of the Federal Chamber of Commerce are also involved in tipping up sensible new regulations such as the Mineral Raw Materials Act with the fees of its members.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5344	Please take note of the speaking time, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5360	I really ask you if the money is useful if the relevant trade union is to use 5 million schilling to tip a law that has just been adopted in this House. - I think that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5390	I'm going to tell you the current hour to finish. I would like to thank the Federal Minister. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5414	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5697	I also announce that the fourteenth report of the Inconsistency Committee was distributed to all members of the National Council. The following submission has also been received: the Convention on the establishment of an international classification of the image components of brands and fittings; Changes to the Vienna Convention on the establishment of an international classification of the visual components of marks, adopted by the Assembly on 1 January 1989. October 1985. After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. This is what I will do in this sense. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5727	Before entering the agenda, I announce that Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has requested that the Environment Committee report on Amendment 1055/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades on the concreteisation of anti-atomic policies with a focus on temelin a period of up to 18 years. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In this context, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate is scheduled for 3 p.m. The vote on the motion for a deadline will then be taken after this brief debate. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5757	The proposal has been made to summarise the debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 9, 10 to 13 and 16 to 18 of today's agenda. Is there any objections to this proposal for summary? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5785	In the presidential session, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A day-block speaking time of 9 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: The SPÖ has 135 minutes, the ÖVP has 126 minutes, the liberals over 117 minutes, the Liberal Forum and the Greens over 81 minutes each. The National Council shall either sit or vote on this. I'm asking: On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. This is thus unanimously defined by the National Council in this form. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG on the results of the extraordinary European Council in Berlin and Kosovo
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5821	We'll get to the 1st. Debates of the European Parliament Following these statements, a debate on the subject will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with a request made to me by five Members. I can give the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany the floor for his report. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e5848	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I was asked to report to the House on the results of the extraordinary Berlin European Council. It was a summit that was under the sign of tragic developments in Kosovo, the biggest disaster and tragedy that Europe has experienced since World War II. As far as the measures and reforms within the European Union are concerned, this summit was a sign of the European Union's determination and determination to solve internal problems quickly and to take measures for the necessary reforms in the field of agricultural policy, structural policy and the financial budget. Following the close resignation of the Commission under Jacques Santer, there was a danger of institutional crisis for the European Union. The rapid agreement on Romano Prodi as designated future Presidents of the Commission on the morning of the first day of the negotiations made an important contribution to averting this crisis, especially since, ladies and gentlemen, the competence and personal integrity of the former Italian head of government are recognised by all sides. I am therefore convinced that we will have a working Commission very quickly. In May, under the Amsterdam procedure, Romano Prodi will be confirmed by the existing European Parliament and will then be tasked with establishing a Commission in talks with representatives of the individual Member States, to be confirmed by the European Parliament as soon as possible. We have promised to influence all the political groups that this confirmation of the new Commission can take place not only in autumn or late autumn, but as early as possible in the summer of this year. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add a personal comment here because the Commission has recently been confronted with lump-sum convictions. It has been assumed by the resignation of the Commission as a collegiate body. However, it must not be overlooked that there are many absolutely integrity members of the Commission who have done very good work for Europe. I am glad to note here that the Commissioner, who has sent Austria, is one of this group of integrated Commissioners. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, it was also used in Berlin, ladies and gentlemen, to point out and push for a new culture of transparency, efficiency and clean financial conduct, in line with the initiatives already launched under the Austrian Presidency. Of course, there will be a need for profound reforms. I personally presented an action plan and also Romano Prodi presented our ideas for this. Ladies and gentlemen! At this Berlin European Council, these proposals for reform have also been addressed, and I personally can imagine that there will be substantial changes within the existing Treaties, but in the case of further proposals for reform - if necessary - at the next Intergovernmental Conference, for example, that, in order to strengthen democratic control, there is also the possibility of requests for distrust against individual Commissioners, and many more. This rapid action by the European Council has signaled the ability and commitment to the efficient management of the taxpayers' resources in Europe – and this is significantly on Austrian initiative. We can be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second essential part of this summit was the Agenda 2000 negotiations. It was in no way foreseeable in the preliminary phase that it would be a success here, a breakthrough. That is why I also allow myself from this point of view to expressly congratulate the German Presidency and the German Chancellor Schröder on the management of negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! This conclusion of Agenda 2000 is the end of a negotiation process which has not yet been experienced by the European Union in this size. At the same time, achieving a reform of agricultural policy, a reform of structural policy, the design of the financial budget for seven years and also a reform of the European Union's own resources, proves once again Europe's capacity for action and performance at the crucial moment. It was a summit that was a success for Europe from these two points of view and – I am glad to say that – it was also a success for Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Austria's net paying position is concerned, we have always said in advance that Austria expects the European Union's taxpayers' money to be used sparingly at the level of the European Union. We therefore expect a real stabilisation of expenditure, we acknowledge that the fundamental principle of solidarity between the richer and poorer countries of the European Union is preserved, but that there must be a fair burden distribution within the richer countries of the European Union, which must lead to a relief from Austria. And we have achieved this together, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The substantial reduction in the Austrian share in the financing of the British discount, the gradual transition from VAT to gross social product, own resources, but also the very good negotiating results in the area of agricultural and structural policies will result in a reduction in the net contribution of Austria to financing the EU-15 by a quarter: from 0.43 percent of GDP in 1999 to 0.31 percent by 2006. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a reduction, ladies and gentlemen, which makes it possible to save around 14 billion shillings on Austrian tax resources, a saving that is increasing year after year and therefore ensures sustainability as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pleasure for Austria that the agricultural reform discussed with the countries and communities has also developed in favour of Austria. This agricultural reform takes into account the Austrian model that agriculture, on the one hand, has to ensure the competitive supply of agricultural products to the population and to be competitive in international exports, but on the other hand also has an important role to play for the preservation of the rural area, the rural workplace, for the preservation of the cultural landscape in Austria. Both aspects could be achieved as a success for Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not only has it been possible to ensure, better than originally expected, Austrian agriculture, but it has also been possible to safeguard the rural structure of European agriculture – and not only the large agricultural industries – because it was possible to improve the return of the common agricultural policy for Austria and provide a decisive boost for the development of rural areas, for the development of structural policies, for the development of the greening of agriculture, for economic impulses and additional areas in rural development. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have succeeded in preventing the degression of direct support for farmers and rural development for Austria. Through the EUR 2 billion for rural development, we have even managed to provide an additional impetus for maintaining the rural structure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The results of structural policy, which are very important for labour market policy in our country, are also very beneficial for Austria. For example, the objective 1 status of the Burgenland could be secured. The Burgenland, which has gained a great economic renewal in recent years from this status, the Burgenland, which has been able to increase its population's per capita income above average year-on-year, will also be able to provide great additional impetus for its people through this support measure Objective 1 area in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the so-called Objective 2 area, the implementation of the so-called safety network has also succeeded in ensuring that large areas of Austria can continue to be eligible for support. Due to the development of wealth and labour market data in Austria, about 8 per cent of the areas had achieved this eligibility. The implementation of this safety net now makes it possible more than three times as a Objective 2 area, as a support area. 25 percent have been reached by the Austrian negotiators, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have, of course, been particularly committed to supporting those regions in Austria which have been disadvantaged for decades by the dead border to the Iron Curtain. It is thanks to the Austrian initiative that we can strengthen the promotion of border regions. It was hard to fight, but it was achieved by Austria that, in addition, 350 million euros, almost 5 billion schilling, were already set for the promotion of the border regions. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What is the net contribution of Austria?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have undertaken to develop the re-examination of the results of the European Union, i.e. the funding scene, together with the federal states. And I am pleased to inform you that a few days ago the national conference agreed that it will submit a coordinated proposal to the Federal Government by the end of June, such as the allocation of the target areas, which will also address the distribution of the financial resources. To sum up, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, this Berlin Summit was a great success for Europe and Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Foreign Minister will deal more closely with Kosovo, but you will also allow me to say a few words about it. It is war in Europe, and people are being driven to hundreds of thousands, tormented, murdered, a war that has not even begun with the blows of air. It is the fact that the Yugoslav leadership, in parallel with the negotiations with the international community, has taken the preparatory work on an indescribably cruel action of ethnic cleansing, which has led to the expulsion of the Albanian majority in Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree here in this House on all the differences we have: Expulsion, murder and deportation must never be tolerated as a means of politics! [[In the case of SPÖ and ÖVP, the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the Abg. Haigermoser.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union, represented by the Austrian Wolfgang Petritsch, the US, Russia and other states contact group, has tried in months of negotiations to develop a peace agreement with Kosovo Albanians. It could have been a sign of peace in Rambouillet: with the protection of human rights for the Albanian population in Kosovo and the safeguarding of the territorial integrity of Yugoslavia. But President Milošević has always rejected these offers clearly and clearly. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you that none of the Heads of State or Government has made the decision for the military action easy, and it hurts me personally that it seems that a military action is the last way to stop atrocities of an anti-human, authoritarian regime. It should therefore be my honour Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of all differences in views – and that was the common aim of all the states of the European Union at the Berlin Summit – there is no doubt that Milošević can receive the signal that he can divide the community and believe that he can sit down and win this conflict in his own way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, all the Member States of the European Union, including the neutral states such as Sweden, Finland, Ireland and Austria, have shown understanding of a military action as apparently the last means after all the political initiatives of Milošević have been refused. Just as we believe that there should not be this signal of division, we also believe that greater political effort is needed in order to actually resolve this conflict. This was also the sign that the Heads of State or Government wanted to give to Kofi Annan at the informal meeting in Brussels by the invitation of the United Nations Secretary-General. Ladies and gentlemen! The Secretary-General of the United Nations has presented a five-point programme approved by the Heads of State or Government. They have explicitly supported the initiative of Kofi Annan and also pointed out the particular role that a Russia player will and must have in the efforts to find a political solution. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that our common task must be to ensure that this Kofi Annans initiative becomes a rapid decision by the United Nations Security Council, thus giving a very clear signal to the people of Yugoslavia that the entire international community, represented by the United Nations, has made an offer for a peaceful solution to be adopted quickly and urgently. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is crucial that Austria, which does not have a military task in this war, as a neutral state, can bring its strengths into the humanitarian and political solution, which also carries out with full force. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And that in two respects, first in the form of direct aid. I am pleased to inform you that the Austrian Federal Government has decided to make available to the first time about 500 million Schillings for the establishment of an Austrian camp, for direct direct direct aid from the aid organisations in Albania, Montenegro and Macedonia. It is important for those people who are unable to live in security, for example in Macedonia, to ensure that Austria and all the other countries of the European Union take up refugees and provide them with protection and help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I must add that at all levels of the Councils of Ministers and also at my level, Austria has tried to ensure that this good example of Austria and Germany also follows the other Member States of the European Union that all States contribute to the security of those people who cannot live in security in this area in our countries. I am therefore pleased that the Austrian Federal Government has first agreed on the number of 5 000, but it is also ready if the need to increase this figure arises. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me also to thank the Austrian aid organizations, the Austrian Federal Army and all the others involved in the construction of the Austrian camp. We have also expressed our willingness if these 5,000 places are not enough for the people of northern Albania to increase this capacity, because it is the task of Austria to help here quickly and efficiently. And we will do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also believe that it is good and right that the European Union – and Austria in the first place – is already thinking about how, after the hopefully rapid end of this war, this whole region, the entire Balkans, can be stabilised and made a zone of security and peace for people. We therefore fully support the European Union's task of developing a Stability Pact here. And we want to fully support, ladies and gentlemen, as Austria has already done at the Vienna Summit, the idea of a Balkan conference, in which a peaceful and political development of this area is to be made possible. Austria as the seat of the OSCE has already offered itself as a venue for such a Balkan conference, because that is what a neutral Austria must and can do: humanitarian and political assistance for peace and security in Europe. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me to thank the many Austrians who, with their help, with their donation, contribute to Austria's being a symbol of co-humanity at the head of the states of Europe, a symbol of aid to displaced and suffering people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6007	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement and may now give Mr Vice-Chancellor the floor to the same subject. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6028	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment briefly on the Agenda 2000 results, after all, for a year in the General Council, I have had to and may negotiate all the details of this agenda discussion. I am just as pleased as the Federal Chancellor that in the end we have achieved a good result for Austria. This was also important because, given the crisis in Kosovo and the resignation of the whole Commission, a failure in the agenda negotiations would obviously have been a deadly signal to the viability and strength of the European idea. The result is good, you can show it here, you can explain it, I think, to every Austrian citizen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What delights me above all is that at a time when it has almost looked like national interests are becoming too strong, as if everyone is putting their own topic on the whole, in the fight for money – and this is of course often the most difficult because everyone can calculate how much he has gained, how much he has lost, how much he has spent on his goals – has nevertheless been possible for us to achieve some very essential successes. The first and important point is: At European level, it is being saved. I should like to say quite frankly that this seems to me to be important because every Member State must also save, save iron – the word Convergence criteria, participation in the euro – and it would be absurd to continue to spend the money with full hands at the European level. Therefore, absolute stabilisation rate. This is hard in some areas, was an idea of the Austrian Presidency and was finally successfully implemented. The second idea was a fairer burden distribution between Member States. I can say quite openly here: We have not been disturbed by the fact that, as a richer country, we are paying more into the Union's funds than we can get out of it. That's fair, it's okay. What bothered us was that some countries that are equally rich or richer have paid less than we have Austrians. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Because you've negotiated so "toll"!]] And that, I must say, is not to be accepted. The result is that we have a much fairer burden distribution in the coming seven-year period, and we are proud of this, because that was our topic, and we have also achieved it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, I would like to address this very openly and offensively, because I know that some are skeptical: Enlargement has only become possible through these Agenda Decisions. Why? – So far – and quite rightly so – there was the fear: If the Union is expanding, this will almost trigger a huge financial link, we will pay much, much more than before. However, by reducing net contributions for us net payers, the Council has only created the space for enlargement in the context of today's budgets. This signal seems to me to be important: The enlargement candidates are welcome. We can finance EU enlargement, if – that is a condition – EU membership candidates can really meet all the content conditions, such as human rights, democratisation and integration in the European framework. Even if we were to expand the Union by six members, we would still not pay more than today – in percentages of gross domestic product. I think this is a very important result of this Berlin Summit, and in this sense it is a historic result, because we will already help candidates in the pre-accession strategy, with around EUR 22 billion, and for the new Member States, there is a reserve of up to EUR 58 billion in the budget. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Allow me briefly to add a few comments to what Viktor Klima has said: It is important for us that the British discount is now divided differently. That is crucial for us. This brings us about 1.3 billion schilling a year. The conversion to gross social product calculation is worth about three-quarters of a billion schilling for us. Furthermore, we have helped agriculture in that we have not left it alone with the serious problems – and of course they still remain. We have helped Austrian agriculture. I would also like to thank our member in Berlin, Willi Molterer, for his presence and for his constant advice and for his lobbying behind the scenes. We have, I believe, a good result for Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austrian consumers will benefit from this because price reductions mean about 8 billion schilling – rising by 2006 – less price for producers. We hope, of course, that this will be passed on to consumers, because then there would actually be a benefit from price reductions. [[Abg. Aumayr: As before!]] – We will pay attention to this together, I assume, Madam Member, for otherwise it would not make sense. If farmers do not receive higher prices for their products but have to take lower prices, then we want this to ultimately benefit consumers. [[Abg. Scheibner: What have you done so far?]] However, we have also helped farmers through a national accompanying programme. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is indescribable!]] For example, we have already decided to increase the value added tax from 10 to 12 percent in the framework of the tax reform, which for farmers represents an income benefit of 1.3 billion schilling and thus an improvement in their income situation and a compensation for the difficulties they will face through Agenda 2000. [[Abg. Aumayr: The same shame!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As regards the question of structural assistance, it is important that: The Burgenland remains the Objective 1 area. At a time when the European Union has actually cut short its projects, which have reduced funding areas, we have maintained that in the future we will receive even more money than before: from structural funding in the future 260 million euros compared with 230 million euros. It has already been taken into account that rural development is shifted from one heading to another. So we get more money out. In addition, the border programme, which is actually a considerable success in negotiation. This co-financed means that over the next seven years we will have at our disposal 10 billion schillings for the border regions of Austria. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: We paid for it!]] That's exactly what Viktor Klima, Rudolf Edlinger, Willi Molterer and I, and Mrs. Landeshuptmann Waltraud Klasnic, who had this idea as the first, but also the heads of state Stix and Pröll called for. We reached it together in Berlin. This is a great success! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, I do not want to go further into detail. Of course, one thing is important now: that we share... – I know, the liberals are more the generalists, and the details they leave to those who can do it best. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: I think so!]] We'll do that, dear friends in the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The dish is the last one to take care of details! You can see that at his ministry!]] The main thing now is that we are putting in place the opportunities contained in the Agenda 2000 Decisions – security for farmers for seven years, opportunities for regions, for communities, for the economy and for agriculture – as soon as possible shared and first-class projects in Brussels so that the possibility of getting something can also be converted into reality. If that is the case, then, I believe, the two long nights of Berlin have been paid out. Although we slept a few hours less, we took out a lot more for Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now allow me to make a few comments on a much more serious, bitter issue, namely the crisis in Kosovo. I would first like to quote the German Foreign Minister Fischer, and it speaks for itself when a Green Foreign Minister says a sentence like this several times in a long interview. The agreement of Europe, said Helmut Kohl, is still a question of war and peace. Joschka Fischer: Helmut Kohl was right. – Unfortunately, I say, because we are now experiencing a Balkan war for the fourth time in our neighborhood – in our somewhat closer and further neighborhood. Since summer 1991 we have been experiencing the fourth war: first in Slovenia, then in Croatia, then in Bosnia and now in Kosovo. It's always the same pattern for eight years: "cleannings", displacements, ethnic victims. Anyone who speaks another language, belongs to another religion or group of people, is to be expelled from the holy earth that belongs to this or that people. Since the beginning of these four wars, six million people – I was surprised and shocked myself when, in preparation for this explanation, I checked the numbers – have lost their home, their home, their village, and there are 300,000 dead to complain about. It's absolutely right what Viktor Klima said: This has been the most serious military and humanitarian conflict, the worst disaster in this part of the world since the end of World War II. It must also be said at this point that all have been affected. There are no winners and no losers. It's all lost. Half of these six million refugees come from Bosnia. But one third of Croatians, Serbs and now Kosovo Albanians have lost their homes, sometimes their health or their lives. In such a war there is no winner at the end, in the end there are only victims, ruins, rubble, wounds that will probably take decades, perhaps even longer to heal at all. That's the point! It should also be added that we had to learn a bitter lesson, everyone in this part of Europe, who certainly believed himself. We had to learn the lesson that we simply could not look away, yes. It has been looked away too often in this century, whether it has been in the case of the Armenians, whether it has been in the case of the German speakers who have been expelled, whether it has been in the case of the victims of Stalin terror, whether it has been in the case of Jewish fellow citizens, whether it has been in the case of the deportations... – I have mentioned it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I think so! Some things we're still looking away today!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] You don't need to torture me now. I said this as much as you did. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that the commonness of this House and the commonness of Europe must be not to look away in such a conflict, but to engage in interfering. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Very late!]] Solidarity, humanitarian commitment and compassion are needed in this sense, and I believe that we are doing the same. The question has rightly been raised again and again: What has Austria actually done in this conflict? Was it enough? I would now like to take this opportunity to remind the House of what Austria has done. I'm allowed to quote my predecessor Alois Mock. Since the beginning of this conflict, since the beginning of the 1990s, it has seemed to be foreseeable that this Communist Communists will not stay together and can always ask to take the Kosovo problem more seriously. It was the Austrians who in the summer of 1990 initiated the mechanism of the human dimension towards Yugoslavia within the framework of the CSCE. This is a written mechanism. At that time, the other European countries took part. The second stage is an oral negotiating mechanism, and there Austria was already alone. The Austrian ambassador Leifer entered into negotiations with Belgrade alone to discuss these issues. I am now going to skip the years between them, especially in 1998, which has been the crucial year in the Kosovo conflict. I was the first European foreign minister, who was not only in Belgrade the same day, but also went to Priština and sought talks with the Kosovo-Alban leadership. Austria was the first country to open an EU office in Priština, which was then upgraded to the Presidency office. The Austrians were the first to have a comprehensive Kosovo discussion on the subject of the Informal Council of Foreign Ministers on 5 May. ==References====External links== The Austrians were the first to offer a platform to the moderate Serbian politicians in Alpbach, Prime Minister Dodik from the Republic of Srpska and Prime Minister Djukanović, who were the only democratic alternative in Yugoslavia, and to bring them together in Alpbach – that was our contribution – with the moderate Albanian forces, for example with Veton Suroi, a chief negotiator later in Paris and Rambouillet. We were the ones who, for the first time, for the sake of being an EU Special Representative for Kosovo, the then ambassador of Austria to Belgrade, were decisively opposed to strong resistance from some EU countries. ==References== In October, Wolfgang Petritsch became the special ambassador unanimously. [[Abg. Young: What have we brought together, Minister?]] – Allow me first to list the initiatives. You're not going to be impatient, are you? We were the only ones who developed a 10-point programme for the care of refugees in October, which was finally decided by the Council of Ministers of the European Union. We have achieved a massive expansion of the ECMM in Kosovo, a European Union observer force. We then first drew up a principle paper on Kosovo, and in December 1998 a regional approach to a Balkan strategy was adopted within the framework of the European Council of the "EU Comprehensive Approach". We were the first to organise a conference – in Belgrade by the way – to improve the Yugoslav media situation and pay for the Union. I have invited several times, three times in total, the Serbian democratic opposition to Vienna and also to Brussels. In December 1998 I invited all eight different groups in opposition to Milošević to Vienna, and they all came: former Prime Minister Panić, former bank President Avramović, Obradović, Djindjić, Pesić – all as they may be called. I would also like to say quite clearly: This has not been enough, because negotiations and offers alone were not enough for the dictator in Belgrade. We presented with Wolfgang Petritsch, even before the Americans presented their texts, the contents of a political solution programme and discussed with the Albanians. Rambouillet is ultimately based on these ideas, which would have helped both sides very well. The Serbs would have kept the integrity and unity of Yugoslavia. The Serbs had achieved that the unity of the country was preserved. The Serbs had reached the end of the war. On the other hand, Kosovo Albanians had achieved a widest autonomy. You'd have achieved free elections. They would have achieved their own security structures, but not at province level, but at municipal level in police structures. They would have been assured of a military international presence that would have required security of any breach. In the end, everyone accepted: the Americans, the Russians, the contact group, the European Union, the Albanians. The Serbs first accepted the political part but withdrew their promise three weeks later in Paris. The military part has rejected the Serbs and the Russians. And things have taken their course. We know today – this is also said here; Viktor Klima has already carried it out, I say it only a little more intensive and precise – that from mid-January – at that time it was rumors, today we have certainty – at the same time as the negotiations Milošević gave the command to create the military conditions for forcing an ethnic wave of cleansing in Kosovo. This is actually Bittre: that from the very beginning – and that must be said, one must call things by name – not the Serbs – they can't do anything for them – but Milošević has had a goal in mind, namely, to hold the international community for as long as possible, to build the Americans, the Europeans and the Russians, and now to implement its cleaning policy. This is the real scandal of Milošević's politics. This cannot and must not be accepted by Europe, including Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What can you do? That is the question. First point: First of all, we can and must, of course, help in a humanitarian way. There have been some 600 000 displaced persons last year, since the beginning of this year, especially since March 500 000 have been added. These are over a million people, Kosovars, but also Serbs who have lost their workplace, their home, their village, their house. Most of them went to Albania, about 350 000. It is therefore absolutely right that Austrian aid should first be concentrated in Albania, in one of the poorest countries in Europe, to which we help materially – through the Union, budget support, stabilisation aid – where we also give a huge boost through the Austrian camp bilaterally. At the end of April, this Austrian camp will be completed and operational. We have agreed that the number of refugees can be increased. That's not a question at all. We have also discussed this with the Albanian authorities and the UNHCR. Second point: We need to help Macedonia. I've heard the calls there were: Is it really possible to fly out of Macedonia now? An honest answer: Yes! Of course, it would be more correct and better if we were to create optimal reception conditions only in the region there. Only: Consider the situation! Macedonia is a country with a few hundred thousand, I think 700 000 inhabitants. Consider what that means for this country, which itself has a very delicate and delicate ethnic balance, where almost a hundred thousand Serbs live, where a third of the population are Albanians, where everything on the knife is cut through this conflict, where now a government is at the top of the country that involves the moderate Albanians in a coalition government, but where, of course, there are also simple people, farmers, people living in this region, who fear that the 140 000 refugees will now completely shift the ethnic balance! We must therefore follow and help the aid call of the Macedonian Government, which had been in the person of its Foreign Minister in Vienna yesterday. It says: Help us! As a small country, we can take in perhaps 50,000 people, but not 140 000. And another 50,000 are supposed to be on the move. At least take away 50,000, 60,000, 70,000 people for a certain time! To be honest, I think it is right that we Austrians are ready to do so. We said: We take in 5,000, later 10,000. We're ready to do that, and that's right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is not supposed to be a permanent establishment, because most refugees want to return to their homes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You promised!]] - Yeah, that's right. We will, of course, also talk to the refugees. That's clear. What I do not think is right – I say quite openly here too – is that other, often even larger, countries of the European Union do not have the same solidarity in such a situation with the small, poor Macedonia. That's what bothers me. So far, the Austrians and the Germans and a third country – I believe it is the French – have taken the Macedonian refugees away. It would be urgent for others to do so. It would be necessary for us to maintain the rhythm that an aircraft comes almost every second day – more is currently not feasible for security reasons; it is important that this pace is really maintained, for security reasons, as I have already said – and that refugees should be brought back to Austria and Europe as quickly as possible under optimum conditions. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Why?]] Third point: We need to help Montenegro. Montenegro, a small province, a republic within Yugoslavia with a democratically elected president, is at present in the most difficult situation at all. The President of Montenegro, of course, is under incredible pressure: Half of his population supports Milošević, the other half supports him, and terror is increasing. The army has blocked the last free border crossing to Croatia, has practically pushed away the police that pushes away loyal customs. Djukanović is so to speak. What is urgently needed, therefore, are signals that the European Union does not leave Montenegro alone. EU Commissioner Wolfgang Petritsch, with whom I have recently telephoned and who is now in Macedonia, wants to go to Podgorica, to Montenegro to bring such a signal of hope and solidarity. I would very much like this National Council to send such a positive signal to the Democrats in Montenegro in this situation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have another fourth problem right now: We do not know exactly how many it is, but we suspect that it is between 200 000 and 300 000 people who have lost their homes in Kosovo, but have not yet made the way across the border, over the mountains to Albania or through the now blocked border crossings to Macedonia or to Montenegro. We really think of despair at all levels, what we can do together. We're in contact with Belgrade. The answer to Belgrade is: No country is neutral for us in this situation. If at all, we only talk to the International Red Cross. - Well, that's what it's supposed to be. Therefore, we contacted President Sommaruga of the International Red Cross immediately and said: Whatever you need, Mr President, you will receive every support from the Austrian Federal Government: Logistics, money, personnel! We're helping! He thanked him very much for sending a special emissary to Belgrade, who, however, sent the necessary conditions – freedom of movement, wherever the NGOs and the Red Cross representatives want to go, they must not sit around Belgrade, but they must not be able to help on the spot, in the forests, in the fields, in the villages – not guaranteed. We need security from all sides, both Belgrade and the UCHR, as well as NATO, as well as from the paramilitary associations. However, these are not guaranteed at the moment. We are currently talking to Greece because the chance is that we may be bringing aid to Kosovo through a Greek convoy. We have agreed that both Swiss and we, if this path is successful, should naturally want to go along with it, because people – which is probably the poorest, because they have not yet managed to help them – do not want to be left alone and not hanged. We are particularly concerned in this context – and I do not want to hide that – that very credible rumors should have disappeared to the 100,000 male Kosovo Albanians. There are always several possibilities: either they are completely submerged or they have gone to the UůK, or there are – and the rumors about it are compacting – more massacres and more shootings, more victims than we have believed so far. I also think it is very important that the OSCE systematically collects surveys and accurate recordings in the refugee camps and reports of the experience of the refugees about what has actually happened. At the end – and this is my conclusion – it must not be that such crimes against humanity, against human rights, against peoples or against individuals remain unwarranted. In the end, all this must be spoken before the UN war criminal tribunal, which we may not know today. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Peter and Hans Helmut Moser.]] Therefore, my assurance, High House, to support any only imaginable activity as before. I would also like to say: More than we have done no other European country, and so it must remain in the future. Like us, no other European country has opened its hearts and wallets. I saw a statistics yesterday that recorded the various achievements of the governments. There are not even the citizens who have donated in the "Neighbor in Emergency" action. There we are absolutely and of course only quite relatively in the per capita number with our donations, with our concrete help offered at the top. So thank you to all who have donated, and to all who will still do so. We're gonna need a lot. We will need a reconstruction aid throughout the region. We need to rebuild the villages. The Austrian camp in Albania might later become an Austrian village in Kosovo and be rebuilt. We need a conference on the Balkans or the South-East of Europe to involve all the countries of the region in order to give them security and stability. We need the five-point programmes of the EU, NATO and the UN Secretary-General – these programmes are practically equal to coverage – so that we can guarantee an international presence, perhaps also an international administration in this region, because in view of all that has happened, peoples' living together will not be easy. That is why the Union should look forward in time to the fact that, after the day the weapons are silenced, I hope that they will be soon, but I doubt that our hope will be fulfilled; I believe and fear that this conflict will last for some time, but then we must be ready – do everything to ensure that this powder vessel is finally corrected and will not go further towards Vojvodina, Sandschak, Montenegro or back to Bosnia. This would be bad, and it would simply not be tolerated at the end of the twentieth century.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6310	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for his statement. As already announced, there is now a debate on both statements, both about the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and about Mr Vice-Chancellor's. We are starting the debate with a speech by Mr Scheibner. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6338	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has heard the first part of the report on the Council meeting in Berlin, then one could believe that the European Union – how was it said? – be capable of action and performance, one has shown determination and closeness. Only, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government: In which areas have determination and consistency and performance been demonstrated? What really happened to Agenda 2000? – In reality, farmers will die, especially in Austria. The Queens of England, which already receive 70 million schillings per year of agricultural subsidies, will continue to be able to rejoice, but our farmers who are threatened by their existence and of whom 10,000 to 12 000 a year have to give up their farmyard will have to continue to wait for them to be represented by a government that not only makes promises but also holds them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, it is said – the Federal Chancellor has mentioned it – that the crisis is now being corrected by the resignation of the Commissioners. What did you correct? – The symptoms have been corrected, but not the causes. Where, then, are the clear concepts that illuminate the funding system, which once illuminately shed light on the privilege jug? With this resignation, Commissioners have only preceded the European Parliament's request for distrust and have enabled them to be included in the functions of the new Commission themselves. It's all just maculation. Mr Foreign Minister, if you say that we are now trying to see that individual Commissioners can also be called up, I would like to reply to you: It is a pity that you are blocking all the initiatives of the liberals, precisely because they come from the liberals. I would remind you that we were already on 21 December. In March 1997, a request was made to introduce this budget, namely that individual Commissioners could also be disapproved of their role. Unfortunately, something must always happen, billions and billions of taxpayers must be wasted before action is finally taken, and even then they are only half-hearted. There's no way to talk about high performance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of the crisis in Kosovo, too, the European Union has not just shown that the third pillar of the Maastricht Treaty, the common foreign and security policy, could only be implemented and implemented in approaches. We are all unscrupulous in view of the daily pictures from Kosovo. None of us would have believed that in Europe after the end of the Cold War and after the many experiences we have had in this region in recent years, thousands of people are murdered, hundreds of thousands are displaced and entire regions depopulated. These pictures, which we get to see about, are affecting. They also remind me of stories from my relatives, who in 1945 as Sudetendeutsche had only five minutes to find their most important possessions and property together and leave their homes, and who were expelled from their homeland under threat of murder. It is distressing how history is repeated in Europe, and it is also disturbing how difficult it seems to continue to restrict such dictators, the murder, torture and these atrocities as the means of their policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why it is clear to us, ladies and gentlemen – and this should be clear to the Austrian Parliament as well – that we, too, here in Austria, have everything to do in our power to end this war in order to enable refugees to return to their homes. What we do not need, however, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – it was really embarrassing what has happened in this country over the past few weeks and months – is that a security policy debate is now being held on the basis of this terrible disaster here in Austria: How much are we neutral, how much are we not neutral? What alliances should one go to? You know very well that the liberals do not press ahead of this debate and that we will not swipe – like others in the past – in terms of our clear position in security policy, but we really find it embarrassing that, at a time when Europe as a whole should focus on dealing with this terrible war, there is nothing else to do here in Austria than break a security policy debate that is missing at that time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: If something is unnecessary, then what you say here!]] For nine years one would have had time to do this. For nine years now, Mr President, we have been aware that the Cold War is over and that the status we had until 1990 is no longer to be maintained. This has also been confirmed by Commissioner van Miert today when he said that neutrality and EU membership are incompatible. But you missed nine years. Now, please, is certainly the wrong time. But what is equally unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen, are words from the very left corner of the political spectrum here in Austria, but also from high-ranking representatives, who now suddenly discover their old love of strange ideologies from the past, from the Cold War, and my old conflicts, which, as I believe, we have ended in 1990 with the disappearance of the Warsaw Pact, into the political debate. I only call the Wiener Klubobmann Hatzl, who suddenly speaks of a war hysteria of NATO, of a war madness of the social democratic governments – also interesting – of uncivilised war rage and of a war driver President Clinton. So I think such reports are not suitable for resolving the conflict, but rather they give the warriors with the true warrior Milošević at the top, and they hope that this clear line of the West will break apart and then emerge as the winner of this conflict. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, ladies and gentlemen, we have to say this. As much as one can practice criticism of the resolution and how the Western states deal with this conflict: Those who call for an end to NATO actions today, without diverting Milošević, are responsible for a negative example, which is dangerous not only in this region, but also for peace throughout Europe. For there are enough dictators in our area, waiting only for the West to give up and divert small ones, so that they can finally achieve their war goals, for which they already have plans in their drawers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, especially since we are talking about the European Union today, it is also necessary to show the deficits that have emerged in recent years. But you don't talk about it. It should not be a matter of discussing now massively any utopia such as an EU enlargement, which the Austrian Trade Union Confederation itself says in a study that it will take between 17 and 45 years for it to be implemented responsibly, but we should discuss what mistakes European security policy has made in this conflict in the Balkans and what lessons we draw from it. This would be important for the development of Europe, because it did not come from today to tomorrow. I recall this strange debate on recognition in connection with Slovenia and Croatia, when the then Austrian Chancellor Vranitzky said, for us, for Austria, the contact person is total Yugoslavia. This happened at a time when the democratic movements in Slovenia and Croatia had already hoped that they would be recognized according to the peoples' right of self-determination. Or what was the situation in Bosnia, where a helpless UN has secured the Serbs' gains and observed how thousands of people have been murdered in Srebrenica? And what is it like in Kosovo now? What about the sanctions that have been applied against Milošević and which have already worked? [[Abg. Wabl: What is happening in Kosovo now?]] There were already difficulties for this dictator, Mr Wabl, but it was the European Union, for example Greece and other states, which could not even achieve these economic sanctions without success. [[Abg. Wabl: Are security bombs thrown off there? Will solidarity bombs be dropped there in Kosovo?]] And when, Mr Wabl, it was a matter of putting an even worse warrior in the barriers, namely Mr Karadžić, Mr Milošević was suddenly a favorite negotiating partner and peace-broker in the Dayton agreement. So there was a clear misevaluation of the situation. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: A clear misevaluation of your part!]] Milošević has been restored to new size and is therefore responsible for this situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As it is said again and again that Austria has an important task and should be mediatingly active in the future: Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! The task of Austria cannot be to accept any diplomatic notes, but we should also actively contribute our experience in this region. And when it comes to an active role, I also ask the Foreign Minister: What did you do last year? Austria had a leading role in the European Union. One has been in the Troika for a year, half a year one has held the Presidency of the Council. What were the dynamic initiatives? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's what the vice chancellor said! You didn't watch out for it!]] What was the result, Mr. Colleague? The result was that the negotiations were extended, and we know very well – we have had talks – that, for example, in NATO a three-quarters ago, it was known that it was too late for a clear military pressure. When we asked for this in autumn in the Foreign Policy Council, you, Mr Foreign Minister – you will admit – said to me: What do you imagine making military work here? Should you bombard Belgrade? So far: What do I think about demanding military pressure? – In the European Union you have then agreed to exactly these bombings – however late. [[Abg. Arbitrators: And was right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One should not shine through blatant activities, one should not open up unnecessary debates on security policy here in the House, but one should combine all the forces and go through a clear line with the Western community. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We should also set clear priorities in the European Union. We should set priorities for building a common European peace order. That would be the most important and the motto of the hour, because without an orderly peace order, you will not be able to go through all other projects for a united Europe if war and weapons rule. This peace order should have absolute priority! And I would expect that from a federal government in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6488	Mr Kostelka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6509	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. High house! The extraordinary Berlin European Council was a full success, not only for Europe but especially for Austria. The contribution of Austria to the European Union's finances could be significantly reduced in the medium term until 2006. By 2006 alone, this savings will amount to 13 billion schilling. The agricultural reform could be made in a way that is largely acceptable to Austrian agriculture, and in particular it has succeeded in ensuring new steps to ecologize agriculture. The European Union's structural policy, taking into account Austrian interests, has been reorganised. The whole Burgenland – which we succeeded in the negotiations – has still been confirmed as a Objective 1 area, and the number of those Austrians living in Objective 2 areas has been tripled. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in excluding, expanding and ensuring the necessary promotion of border regions. Despite all the critics, the Vienna strategies developed and implemented under the Austrian Presidency in December of the previous year have led to a success. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Under the chairmanship of Federal Chancellor Klima, the prerequisite was created at that time for the reorganisation and further development of European thought. These Vienna strategies, ladies and gentlemen, will also be the basis of the work of the European Union over the next few months and years. In this context, however, the strength of the idea of Europe has proved to be not only in the above-mentioned decisions, but also in dealing with the biggest crisis in the European Union since its inception. Ladies and gentlemen! They all know: A few months before the end of its term of office, the European Commission has laid down its functions. It is, I think, only a prelude to the opposition between government and Parliament that exists in any democratic-parliamentary system. The causes are much deeper. The Commission understood itself far too much as an administrator of Europe, the political dimension has been far too often too short. The Commission, ladies and gentlemen, has not adequately respected the criticism of Parliament, not only of Parliament, but also of the public, in recent years. Errors encountered have not been merged into corresponding consequences. They have not led to the detection of weaknesses, but very often such weaknesses have been kept silent. Clear structures and thus the responsibility of the administrative apparatus have missed much too often, and the loyalty of officials was simply and simply bought by immunity. The design of Romano Prodi as the new President of the Commission within just ten days of the deposit of the functions of the old Commission has demonstrated the strength of decision of this European Union. This conflict between the European Parliament and the Commission, but above all the immediate re- appointment of a credible new President of the European Commission, has led us to a new self-understanding of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen! The result – I am convinced – will be a more dynamic, a more political and above all an more integrated European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The sustainable efforts of Austrian Social Democratic EU Member Herbert Bösch and his criticism of existing states have led to a democratic shift in the European Union in this way. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Is he coming back to Parliament?]] [[Further calls to the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! He will certainly remain a Member of the European Parliament. I can calm you down. [[New calls to the Liberal Forum.]] On the other hand, your colleague and the tones you are attacking, Mrs Colleague, are not quite sure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, the most pressing question, namely the war in Serbia, could not be given a solution at the Berlin Summit or at the recent summit in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's take a look at the facts! The Serbian regime under its president, Milošević, has begun an inhumane displacement policy in recent months. In a brutality no longer known since the end of World War II, the aim of an wrong ethnic and nationalist policy was pursued with murder, destruction and rape. The Rambouillet negotiations could not stop this policy. The hope for a peaceful solution to this ethnic conflict could not be fulfilled in these negotiations. It has failed a blinded Serbian nationalism. Therefore, when the impossibility of a contractual solution to this conflict seemed clear, the majority of NATO states – as was previously announced – responded with a military blow. ==References== March will be bombarded night by night targets in Serbia and Kosovo. [[Abg. Young: And by this the Kosovars are driven out!]] But we also have to note that 29 days of bombardment have not brought us closer to solving this burning problem. Militarys tell us that this war can continue for weeks – some even speak of months. I understand that NATO states have shown this reaction. However, I must also think, yes, if the NATO countries have still not achieved their intended humanitarian objectives after such a large number of bombings, even if their achievement has reached a wide, wide range. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, both are true: The genocide, this deportation policy in Kosovo, has already begun before the military strikes. However, it has also been proved and unbelievable that the wave of refugees has reached a level comparable only to those of the World War II and beyond since the NATO bombings. [[Abg. Young: What the Serbs have started the NATO!]] In this context, ladies and gentlemen, neutral Austria must necessarily ask itself what a special contribution it has to make to overcoming this dangerous situation for Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister and Deputy Chancellor Schüssel! In recent years the resolution of military blocks in Europe has repeatedly been asked the question of the function of the Neutrals in this Europe. In this context, you yourself have asked: To whom should we be neutral? – Recent events make it easier than ever to find an answer to this question: Austria has to be neutral to any form of war, including that in the Balkans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another clear commitment: However, this must not be the neutrality of looking away, but the active effort to contribute to the resolution of disputes, to relief, yes to the elimination of human suffering and ultimately to the creation of peace. However, active neutrality must not only be explained, it must be lived above all, ladies and gentlemen. Not only can the law of neutrality have the effect of preventing NATO aircraft from flying over Austria, but we must also face up to neutrality in our daily actions to other countries, to other institutions. It commits us to active action. I therefore endorse the call of the Federal Chancellor Klima: Let us not only challenge the neutrality law itself, which is undoubtedly a valid federal constitution law, but also the political institution of neutrality for the period of the next five years! On the basis of such a national consensus, ladies and gentlemen, we should make an active contribution to the peace policy for the Balkans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl and Amon.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is dishonest what you represent here! It's double-duty!]] The conditions for this, ladies and gentlemen, are excellent. No other country in Europe has such a large number of outstanding experts and diplomats who are familiar with all its facets in such a complicated area in Eastern Europe. Austria enjoys excellent reputation in all States that could make a significant contribution to peace in Kosovo, and ultimately, we are given sufficient legitimacy for such an active neutrality policy, including the humanitarian efforts of Austria over the last few days. In this context, let me say thank you to the Austrian people for the numerous donations and efforts, but also to the Austrian Federal Army and the aid organizations for the services provided. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that, in the next few hours, we will have a joint resolution with our coalition partners, a resolution in which I believe that it is not war and its justification, but above all its overcoming. Let us begin today with this activity, with the activity towards neutrality, which helps to overcome what began a few days ago, namely the pitiful war in the Balkans! May peace come!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6655	Mrs Dr Schmidt has now come to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall set the clock at 15 minutes for you to do so. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6676	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Before addressing the tragedy in Kosovo, I would like to address four points related to the European Union and the declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. These are: the subject of enlargement of the European Union, institutional reform, cleanliness in this European Union and Agenda 2000. To expand: I think it was also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, but Mr Vice-Chancellor in particular, who meant that something had gone on here. I claim: The opposite is the case! As far as enlargement is concerned, we are no further today than with verbal confessions that we know from the beginning. It is not clear from any word that enlargement must be given any particular importance, let alone priority. And from the fact that there is a financial plan - you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have pointed out - by 2006 in which there is not the slightest room for such an enlargement, it can be seen that no human being in this European Union has, by this time, apparently the intention of including only one of the candidate and candidate countries. All in all, this summit has caused a clear damper as far as enlargement is concerned. Second point: institutional reform. We Liberals have already, during or before the Austrian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, made the request to make institutional reform an important point. Both Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr Bundeskanzler have rejected this; the House here anyway, because the fact is that the fact that the fact is that the political groups, which is well expressed, are, unfortunately, largely regarded as a supporter of the government's opinion. I remember very well that Mr Vice-Chancellor's main committee has said that there is no point in wanting to have any activity here, because there is no willingness to do so. So from the beginning he threw the flint into the grain. Now – and I am glad that at least the Germans are doing so – the Germans have announced that they want to convene a government summit for institutional reform, and I hope that will happen. But with what majority of Council decisions are to take place in the future – we know that this is linked to enlargement – how the Commission should be composed in future, how Parliament's participation and participation should look forward – all these are essential points that would contribute not only to the strengthening of the European Union but also to the acceptance of the population. So it would have been so important to attack them earlier, but now I have to say: Nothing has gone on, we have been able to discover nothing of progress at this last conference. That is why I must add: There is also no reason to express a positive opinion on what has come out. In this connection, I would like to move on to the next point, namely cleanliness, because this is also related to the Commission. Now, at once, I hear, one is willing to think about whether the Commission can not only be ordered by the collective, but also by individual members of the Commission. It is not only that this is an old demand of several opposition parties in this House that there would have been a detour in the present situation. If we do not already have the legal situation to make this clear, then we should look for instruments, how we can at least comply with this intention. Following the corruption incidents within this Commission, the Liberal Group has requested that the President be urged to make an accusation to the ECJ against the Commissioners. This call by the ECJ would have made it possible for individual members to take the hat very well. Not only did this request have been rejected by the political groups of the European Parliament, but it is still going on. It was even then that the motion for censure brought by the Liberals was rejected by the representatives of these government groups, most of all by the heads of the political groups. I am saying this because this is a very essential indication of the credibility of the efforts of the political groups in this House, especially in the run-up to an election campaign. One sees from what one can really take for beard coin, namely, by measuring it by the actions. And then, for me, this is an important point in this context, of course, is a suspicion, and it is obvious that there is no interest in such institutional reform at all with ÖVP and SPÖ. You have a completely different interest: to carry the vices of the package used in this country up to Brussels. And there are examples of this. You know, I'm not a friend of strong words, but otherwise you can't change that when you look at what business is being tried here in connection with an ambassador's order on the one hand and the occupation of Commission posts on the other. If you, Mr. Khol, nod and give me that right now, then this is a remarkable insight, just: The ÖVP cannot stand out from the responsibilities at all, because Commissioner Fischler is playing this game. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] He is the one who makes a offer. He says, well, if I do, maybe my chief of the cabinet will become one close to social democracy. That is to say, these games, which are played unanimously by ÖVP and SPÖ, in Vienna, in Austria, you want to carry out to Brussels and thus consolidate your system, which has nothing to do with democracy at all. I suspect that an interest in institutional reform is already underdeveloped for this reason. You cannot have any interest in strengthening control in the European Parliament, for example through more rights and opportunities from the European Court of Auditors or even through accompanying private control, although it may make sense to discuss it and to adopt rules of play. – So nothing has gone on in this area too. And as far as Agenda 2000 is concerned, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany made a remarkable statement on this – I believe I am not hearing it right – when he meant that the European Union at the moment demonstrated its ability to act. . So I must say now, as a convinced European, it hurts me, how you are ruining the image of the European Union, because with such a fine speech you cannot believe anything at all, even if they say right, positive things about the European Union. But it is precisely because of the fact that we are promoting acceptance of this European Union, especially when it comes to developing something further, that cannot happen to fine-tuning, especially with a fine-tuning company that lacks any basis. They stand here and say that the European Union has demonstrated its ability to act at the crucial moment. – Nothing of that is true! This Agenda 2000 has shown a reform approach, but – and I am sure you will have to give it to me – you have remained in the middle of the line. One thing is remarkable to me – but that has not bothered the ÖVP for a long time, we have also experienced this in the discussion about the petrol price scheme: It is this Agenda 2000 and this support system that is the last plan economic instrument to be European-proof. That that party that always acts as if it were for the market economy – I don't know how you come to this call at all; that's what I'm sluggish – then this instrument at the European level is actually buying and doing nothing about it, doesn't surprise me at the ÖVP – that's the only credible thing about you: Fuel price schemes here in the House, there a continuation and a further consolidation of the plan economic instruments – but one must say: Nothing went on! I therefore join the Prime Minister of Luxembourg in assessing this summit. Juncker said that if there were national winners, I must point out that both the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic more than the Vice-Chancellor, were constantly talking about what had been won for Austria; they really had to be careful that they had got the European dimension back and forth; so it fits precisely in to tell us how much the national states and, in particular, Austria had won – if there are national winners, there can only be a loser, and that is Europe. – And that’s exactly what happened at this summit in Berlin. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a quote of Juncker, which I would very much like to take up, because this quote makes the point; it is the point that you still think individually that you do not manage to think in common. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzböck]] And because you cannot think in common and always live only the "Austria first" humanity that a party has given – because of the surveys you think you have to take it now – there is no common action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I now come to the tragedy we are all facing now: Kosovo. I believe that we can say – even if we do not know how things really developed, what everything could have been prevented; we are always wiser if we do not have to decide for ourselves and if we consider things retrospectively – that one of the reasons for this disaster – at least at least – is the lack of the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. Because, without wanting to overvalue what embargoes can do, what economic sanctions can do, especially over a long period of time – there are different examples for this –: The fact that the economic sanctions and the embargoes that could have been implemented have not been implemented within the European Union is evidence of the overarching of national interests towards common interests. Economic interests in particular are placed above all on political responsibility. This was the case within the European Union, and I am convinced that this was one of the points to say: It doesn't really happen much. – By the way: I admit that as the only country in Austria, it might have been a little more difficult to take action, but one should also question the self-evident nature with which our AUA has fled to Belgrade until a few weeks ago. What kind of isolation would there have been? – Of course, it always affects innocent people, only: What more than a war affects innocent people? – For this reason, one could have taken a great deal of account before and considered what was still possible. I believe that a concentrated European information policy, brought into this country – these are just a lot of small mosaics – could have done something, namely the isolation of Milošević from its Serbian people. But the opposite was achieved with this NATO blow. The opposite has happened, namely the solidarity of a people who previously wanted to have nothing to do with this man. We must also take this into account, and we must therefore ask ourselves the question: What could have been done with what instruments before? The Liberals – I will come back later – are always in favour of the Western European Union, that is to say, a European security system, including a military arm, a European army, a Eurocorp. I know that implementation cannot be done as quickly as possible, but nothing has been done in this direction. I mean, if it were a question of using a European instrument, then there would have been quite a different chain of reflection than those that were then fulfilled by NATO, in particular by the Americans. All of this, together, shows me that European common foreign and security policy is a very important condition in order to actually implement the peace concept for Europe. For this reason, it is so important to deal with this and also with the question: What contribution can Austria make to this? (b) to deal with the problems of unemployment and unemployment. As it is now being said that Austria as a neutral state has a special role and can make a special contribution, I must say: In this context, the humanitarian side would rightly be the key. And I have to say the following: Thanks to the people from the government bank – rightly so! Thanks to the population it is right to speak out, only: What policy has done on its way to humanitarian aid is embarrassing. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] You can't now because we're a bit further today, pretending all of this would have been forgotten. I remember that week when nothing happened, but in which other countries have already acted – the neutral Austria, which turns out to have a special position, has done nothing at that time; on the contrary, Mr Schlögl said that the boundaries should be closed, but now it means that perhaps one should go off the quota, or not, and so on – and now one wants to sell it as a contribution. I really think that's cynical. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] This is not the contribution a neutral country can make if it is actually such. For me, the following is amazing: the shoulder closure of the new clubman of the liberals with the Chancellor; both say: Actually, a security debate is completely unnecessary at the moment. – I can hardly imagine something scurrying! If we now refer to other neutral states in the European Union, I would ask you to be so honest as to work out the different positions. While other states are block-free, we have a neutrality with the international obligation to treat the equal treatment of all parties to the dispute – and that is where history looks quite different. [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate.]] I am therefore not surprised that the Vice-Cancellor has said so by the way in his statement – how did you say, Mr Vice-Cancellor? –: No country is neutral to us in this situation, had come from Belgrade. I am not surprised that they say so, because it is not surprising, either, if Austria is no longer perceived as neutral, for a variety of reasons. Federal Chancellor! I think it is right that you have taken part in the statement by the European Heads of State, namely the statement on the NATO strike. I have said in advance what I have to criticise in this regard. It is only about the fact that something has happened in this situation, which seems to have been seen as the last consequence. Since this consequence has been taken, I believe it is necessary – this is terrible, but necessary – that everyone stand together and at least try to achieve what was once the goal – it could not be achieved so far, on the contrary! I therefore think it is right that you have spoken about the need for action. But you have taken a clear position, and therefore you must not be surprised when Belgrade says: For us, no one is neutral! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] I know that there is always a moral value here, but we know exactly how much sensitivity the tasks of Neutrals are associated with. And even if it is sealed that a military blow is correct, it cannot be expected – neutrality is not self-evident; You live by the fact that the interlocutor recognizes you as a neutral – that you are recognized as a neutral! It cannot be expected if, in the run-up to this disaster, it is obvious that in this country one does not know whether one wants to be neutral or not prefers to join NATO or anything else! [[Abg. Young: A little neutral!]] That's exactly the point, and that's why you didn't present your option report: They knew very well that the accession to the European Union, of course, - I am expressing this very valueless now - created a tension between neutrality and common foreign and security policy, and this is very benevolent. Of course, you knew that, and that is why you have announced that you will be presenting an option report to say which ways are possible. You have known how important this is, and therefore you wanted to do so before the EU Presidency, as you also knew that the other countries are taking serious action and developing a position for the country – I hope we are at least trying to do so – depends on the fact that the others know what they want to have or what they want to do. But you don't know what you want! Mr Vice-Chancellor speaks of it before NATO members – he makes it clear in this way that it would be very nice if we joined – that neutrality is obsolete. In all interviews by ÖVP functionaries, which everyone can read, it is said: grudging, obsolet and so on. Faith You really think that our neutrality policy will then be taken seriously? – I don't think so! In this House, there is another group which speaks of "everlasting" but also causes the opposite by its own actions. Of course, this has already begun with UN accession; in this respect, Switzerland has gone a much more consistent way. It has continued by changing the criminal law and the war materials law between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. in a night and fog action – I remember well – between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Another step has been taken by a commitment to a common foreign and security policy, and since the Treaty of Amsterdam we do not know how Austria will continue in this respect. What will this contribution look like? – We strive for a no-one's country in security policy! And in this situation, the Federal Chancellor says: Let's put my – climates! – Position out of dispute, and best for five years! Who knows where Mr Klima will be in five years, but it should not be discussed now! And Mr Scheibner – an amazing coalition – says: Here a completely unnecessary security debate is broken from the fence. [[Abg. Scheibner: At the time!]] I can already imagine Mr Scheibner saying: A debate is unnecessary because I am used to one decision and that happens, so what is the point of debate? In this respect, the position may well meet with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Scheibner: So really a nonsense! Nine years you would have had time for the discussion!]] I really think it is incredible that in such a discussion we should push away everything, spread over the coat of silence, and think that we could continue as before, where we have securitised two attitudes – the one in our constitution, the other in treaties – which simply do not fit together. As a result of this weakening, we have not been able to achieve the corresponding weight, either in one or the other direction. That is why we are bringing forward a resolution to Liberals concerning the submission of an option report from the Federal Government on the future security policy of Austria. For it is all about nothing but that this House has to decide anyway here, and the composition of this House after the 3. We'll see October. [[Abg. Boy: (favoring) Yes!]] But one thing is important: to know what a political group in this House stands for, what one or the other party stands for. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign]] – Are 15 or 20 minutes over now?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6811	Please read the request!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6827	All right, then I can still read this motion for a resolution. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] Because first...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6876	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I was very generous. The 20 minutes have expired. I didn't want to interrupt you at the reading, but now the speaking time is over. I'm asking for understanding.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6891	I assumed that these were the 15 minutes. . I would ask you to give your consent to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6925	The motion for a resolution, which has yet to be read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e6949	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a debate on genocide in Kosovo for the first time, a debate in the face of incredible suffering, genocide, the displacement of hundreds of thousands. What's so depressing about it: Each of us who has traveled the Balkans over the past 15 years, each of us, who has been in Priština since 1978, admired on the one hand the patience of the Kosovo Albanians, who have been tyrannized by the Serbs for decades and said: We do not resort to violence, for sometime the right will be on our side! – This is a memory quote from Ibrahim Rugova, who is now a hostage of Milošević. For 15 years now, we know - all Balkan experts have been aware - that sometime the patience of the Kosovars will end and that there will be a terrible bloodbath there. They negotiated and negotiated and negotiated. The help cry of the Kosovo Albanians remained unheard of in the end. In this perspective, I am concerned today with discussing the end of the war in the House, the resumption of the negotiations, the questions: How to bring President Milošević to the negotiating table? How can Austria help refugees? What can we do to come to a European peace order, to a system of solidarity in which one cannot see the eyes, as a peaceful, patient people like the Kosovars are driven out and murdered. That is why I do not want to address party problems in my contribution today. I am not concerned today about the narrowness of party politics and not about election issues, but about state policy. It is about a solidarity Austrian policy in the European Union and a leading country of the European Union. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Eder.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I thank the Federal Chancellor and Foreign Minister for their reports on the Berlin Summit. I do not want to underestimate these reports, because, as a member of the European Union, one is satisfied to see that, despite the internal difficulties of the Presidency – after all, the President of ECOFIN Lafontaine has resigned a few days before the summit – there was an actionable Council: One has solved the Commission's crisis, one has chosen an excellent man, the Christian Democrat Romano Prodi, as the President of the Commission. One has a programme against corruption, one has a programme for Agenda 2000, one has achieved, from the Austrian point of view, a new regional funding, in particular border support. And we have achieved that Agenda 2000 is as Austrian as it is the other objectives of the summit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I thank you on behalf of my group for coming to these results. We'll discuss them today and tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen! The overview of what we have done in Kosovo was impressive. He shows – I would like to say this to Mrs Schmidt, but also to Mrs Petrovic, because I know what she will say when she speaks to me – that the negotiating option of the European Union, by NATO forces, has really been used up by the United States to the end. The overview shows: It was negotiated, negotiated, negotiated, and only when one had to take note that the time of negotiations was used to end the expulsion and genocide; only in the face of this drama was the war by NATO with the air blows, with the bombings to the reality – with the aim of bringing Milošević to the negotiating table. What I am looking at in the summary of the President of the European Union's Heads of State or Government meeting in Brussels on 14 February. April – I’ll quote it at once – I can only cry heartily, I must say that I agree that it must be that way. "The Heads of State or Government," it says, "do not accept their determination to accept the murder and deportations in Kosovo, and believe that the use of the strongest measures, including military action, was necessary and justified. They will insist on the objective of a multiethnic and democratic Kosovo in which all people can live in peace and security. They will make the Yugoslav authorities responsible for the security and well-being of displaced people in Kosovo." I think that's all that's said. That was the consensus of all the Heads of Government, and the Federal Chancellor has said in his statement today why he has carried this. It is really important for us to have a united view of the free world in this respect, a united view of a common approach. It is about Austria as a member of the European Union that the members of the government – the Chancellor as a member of the European Council, the Foreign Minister as a member of the Council – are developing joint action on the basis of the facts given. We are members of the European Union, we are members of the United Nations, we are members of the OSCE, we are members of the NATO "Partnership for Peace", we are observers to the WEU, and of course we have Austrian law, constitutional rights and the war material law. All of this is given, and we must do everything we can to contribute to a solidarity policy on this basis and then to represent it vigorously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Amsterdam Treaty is the basis of further measures. ==References== ==References====External links== It provides for joint action and is the basis for further action. It is also the basis of Austrian solidarity in the European Union with our partners. We will prove that there is no bulwark between NATO and non-NATO countries that Europe is convinced that the free world is united. We therefore support the five-point plan of the European Union, which has also become the five-point plan of the UN – the Foreign Minister has pointed out. We will, of course, be prepared for an international peacekeeping force when a ceasefire is reached; we have experience with it. Of course, we will be trying to involve Russia in the conflict management process, because experience teaches us: Peace will not prevail in the Balkans until Russia participates in this peace. We will continue to put the proven Austrian diplomacy in the service of the negotiations between the conflict parties. It honors our country that Ambassador Wolfgang Petritsch was excellently active and is still active and thus demonstrates how committed we are to solidarity. That shows how much we are interested at an end of the war, to use everything for it. Full support is available for the initiative of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union towards a Balkan Conference as soon as Milošević is ready for negotiation. If the negotiators are willing to do so, of course Vienna can also be the place to negotiate. It is only this, Mrs Petrovic, that the willingness to negotiate is not given from one side, and this cannot be replaced. We need the willingness of all sides to participate in these negotiations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As soon as the weapons are silent, ladies and gentlemen, the aid organizations should be able to help people on the ground immediately. The International Red Cross has the greatest competence and the greatest recognition. I hope that the whole House will support and support the proposal of Foreign Minister Schüssel and Foreign Minister Flavio Cotti, namely that Austria and Switzerland will lead this commitment to the International Red Cross. Today, we shall put forward a motion for a resolution, which is supported by the Socialists and my group, a resolution which underlines and reaffirms the objectives set out by the Government Bank today in unanimity. I hope that in this debate today we will present a sign that the Austrian National Council will also take a stand against genocide, for a European peace order and for a solidarity of Austrian participation in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7066	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7088	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to ask the Members of this House, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery, as well as the representatives of the media and the representatives of the media to call for a rally for a ceasefire in Kosovo, for an end to the deportations, together with "Pax Christi", "Iustitia et Pax", the Catholic youth of Austria, and many others, such as the Hospital Initiative "The Man First", which I believe you, as well as the political representatives behind it, can hardly agree on humanitarian commitment. [[the speaker holds a poster in the height]] We have two main concerns on the part of the Greens: the ceasefire and humanitarian aid. And all that is useful to these goals is to be promoted by the Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In order not to be forgotten, I shall also make a motion for a resolution on the so-called main issues of the Greens: [[Quoted print version removed]] We see this motion for a resolution as a support to the forces of peace, and I hope that perhaps one or the other of the House will not refuse to accept it. That is what I have to say in terms of content. I think, as I said, that the debate on the content of the EU Council in Berlin is missing with the debate on the war in the former Yugoslavia. The NATO bombardments have been on for a month now, and it would have been a long time since the government informed this House. I note that the Rules of Procedure of the National Council were also violated – I cannot tell the Foreign Minister now that he is not in the Chamber at the moment – because there were documents that had been submitted for a long time, but the Federal Government has not done so. The chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor have approved NATO bombardments, they have broken international law and Austrian neutrality, and they have not informed the National Council of the corresponding projects. On the aspect of humanitarian aid – one of the main concerns of the Greens – we must say: What the Austrian population is doing is great, but the way in which the German government has followed pressure from the public and the media is embarrassing. It was at the beginning of this year that people from Kosovo, family members of host workers, were deported to Hungary. – This policy was pursued by this Social Democratic Interior Minister and a Sadist section head Matzka! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think it would be time to disregard this Austrian policy once and for them to belong to the past! – He's just pushing off, he's just pushing off! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He can't defend himself!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: He can't say anything!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's really humane! The poor man can't defend himself here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To NATO bombardments: This is a breach of international law. Dr. Khol! If the forces of peace had had as much money as NATO had available for their bombings on a single day, I think the situation in former Yugoslavia, even in Kosovo would be another. The representatives of the free media, who were there, have been begging for support, but nothing has happened. Critical journalists have been murdered. They have waited in vain for the help of the great media institutions from America, from England, from Europe. Nothing happened. Many things have been missed, as the representatives of the other parties have said. And then, when apparently all the means were exhausted, the decision to start the bombings came under the applause of the Austrian head of government. They're illegal, that's clear. [[State Secretary Mag. Wittmann takes office in the representation of Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate on the government bank.]] In this context, I would also like to ask the international legalists, the foreign policy experts of the government parties: Why, then, do people in Turkey, the Kurds, the people of East Timor, the people of Laos or the people of Colombia not have the same weight? – There will never be a North Atlantic Pact bombarded, because there are the offices of the arms companies, British Aerospace and other companies. You could catch this one with the bombardments! They do their business there. There is one question that is completely undisputed in the foreign media, and I wonder why you are not holding the debate here. Isn't it about a U.S. hegemony as a world politician in NATO? Haven't you chosen exactly this crisis heatherd on the Gulf and Yugoslavia, because you knew that Europe in these areas – I say: Thank God! – due to history, because of the past can and will not decide on a joint military strike? The Americans were able to rely on them to be the spearhead of the attack there, and I think that is why it went too. If it is said by the FPÖ that at the very beginning Milošević was assessed completely differently, I would like to draw your attention to what Mr Holbrooke said about Milošević in 1995: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: With you the morale is on your head!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are a very cold person!]] “He is a man we can do business with, a man who recognizes the realities of life in former Yugoslavia.” – So a realist, a businessman – according to the assessment of the Americans. This man who has been so wrong, do you want to trust European security? – To hand over the European security of NATO, that is the real uncertainty of this continent! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your ideological comrade Gregor Gysi sees that as well!]] Mr Stadler! Apparently, there are also large parts of the Catholic Church, but that you have nothing with this hat, we know for a long time. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: They establish themselves as the fifth column of Milošević!]] Next point: The American hegemony needs people like Milošević, like Saddam Hussein. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... because Milošević is not a Marxist! You're about Marxism!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and to the ÖVP.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] Mr Stadler, who can shout so loud, would you also find it justified to use shots from enriched uranium? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Completely one-sided!]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Petrovic and Handke!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why don't you say anything to the displaced Kosovars?]] [[More lively calls.]] Mr Khol! Today, NATO has admitted: Shots from enriched uranium. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Serbian!]] Mr Stadler! These uranium bombs, these nuclear weapons, kill both Marxists and non-Marxists! These are nuclear weapons, and they are to be despised and rejected! I was of the opinion that this House is doing this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: One-sided!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: And who sells the Kosovo Albanians?]] Mr Wittmann, State Secretary! What do you say when the Social Democratic Chancellor approves of these NATO strikes and when the Austrian Minister of Defense says Austria apparently carried out espionage activities there and was probably informed? Did you also know what NATO spokesman Giuseppe Morani said today, namely that nuclear-powered shots, the same shots as in southern Iraq, have been used there? And are you familiar with the reports that in southern Iraq the rate of leukemia disease in children and the rate of malformation in newborns are now as high as they correspond to the values following the drop of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Who sells the Kosovars?]] Are you saying this well, Mr. Kukacka: ill-educated newborns and leukemia in children? – I can only deny it as well as I can, ladies and gentlemen! Not only these shots have been used. Maybe you should also read some foreign newspapers. Perhaps you would no longer like a military block as a peace order. There are also on the side... [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Who protects Kosovo Albanians?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Has a single Kosovo Albanian been protected so far? Was only a single person protected? Was a single person saved from expulsion, from death? - Everything has been accelerated! And call it good, ladies and gentlemen,... – You know, that's the lowest and most disgusting argument at all! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Why do you support mass rape in Kosovo?]] I can ask you the same question: Have you, who congratulates you on the NATO attacks, supported the attack on a civilian move? Did you support the fact that 85 people who tried to escape tractors have been bombarded to death? – I don’t think that’s happening to you, but this terrible accident has happened. It is the bloody "logic" of wars that they all die, the military as well as the civilians, when everything else has been rejected! That's the bloody "logic" you should finally face! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: And Milošević can do what he wants, can he? That must not be true!]] I'll ask you a question. Not only nuclear weapons have been used. The Royal Air Force has also used splitter bombs – BL 755 they are called – which dissolve in a variety of land mines that look like spiders. These are landmines that hurt children, hurt civilians who can kill and which we, including the members of this House, have tried to disregard in a laborious work. Now these land mines are back – used by those who supposedly defend the morality. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Do you think the Serbs have no land mines?]] How far does the morale go? If nothing else helps when the dictator gets more and more solidified, how far does the morale go? Does she justify nuclear weapons? Does she justify chemical weapons? Does she justify landmines or napalmbombs? How far is it going? How far will you go? How long will you be applause? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You justify the land mines of Milošević!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will be no way by – now far more difficult than before – to start a policy of small steps towards peace, to open dialogue forums, to help any person who succeeds in putting himself into temporary security, to open doors and wallets. That costs less than a single day of bombardment! I ask you: Support with us an immediate ceasefire and the greatest help possible for the displaced from Kosovo!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7539	At the beginning of your remarks, Mrs Dr Petrovic has tabled a motion for a resolution which has been submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure, is sufficiently supported and is therefore included in the negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Schieder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7564	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! For me too, in this debate, I have the first word of concern for the victims, for human suffering and for one of the full commitment to humanitarian measures. I would just like to say the following about the comments made by my predecessor, since I do not want to deal with other points made by her on such a serious topic: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One can say, when it comes to individual people, that, for example, one does not agree with a section head that one does not share one's intention. One can refuse it, even one can be for being disfellowshipped to get away. You can be for a disciplinary procedure or something like that. That can be justified. And if you can justify it, you can say it. But that you just put the argument here that he is sadistic and that is why he is acting like this, is really inappropriate, Mrs Deputies. I wanted to say that with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, in view of this subject and the terrible suffering, I am simply unable to present it here in a costume of the usual acting. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an order call! You don't need a costume.]] Mr President must know whether he grants one or not. The President must know that. On the current situation in Yugoslavia, Kosovo and there. The challenge for the state community and the challenge for the world was the following: not to say that Milošević ordered atrocities and put them with his apparatus, not to accept that people are being driven out, and to stop ethnic cleansing. The challenge for the State community was to show strength, including by means of power, to prevent such a thing from happening or being expanded. At the same time, however, the challenge for the Community of States was to act on a legally flawless terrain, not to conjure up a world conflict, to show a uniform approach to Europeans in the EU and to ensure that as few civilians as possible are harmed in military action. The aim was to prevent the opposition that existed against Milošević from allied with him and to further isolate him. And the challenge was to promote the willingness of all sides to return to the negotiating table. If, at the beginning of this action, one or the other could still believe that the action would lead to these objectives, today the question arises more and more: If she succeeds, can she succeed or does she not already violate far more of these goals than she does at the same time? Therefore, in an in-depth examination of the procedure – not only the legality of the procedure, but also the nature of the procedure – it is appropriate to call for the conclusion of these military measures, to press for a political solution and to proceed with the proposed negotiation plan involving the United Nations. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that some people in this House believe that the most important thing is to catch the criminal, to prevent him from further wrongdoing, and the questions of how and who does it are secondary, important, only that it should happen. We are committed in the States to comparative things – and the conduct between the states should be adapted to the legal order we find in the States – always to the fact that we catch criminals, that we prevent them from making further acts, but that we proceed with legally flawless methods. And it is also important to call for these legally flawless methods to be applied to this use. It is therefore so important that the UN or the OSCE are the basis for this. That is why it is so important that the UN should be more involved, with all of us right, of course, to change the UN, especially the Security Council. I would ask myself whether all those who are in favour of making the Security Council more mobile will abolish the right of veto for Russia and China – I would welcome it – is also in favour of the abolition of veto for the other States, for example the United States, at the same time, of course. I am in favour of not determining the great ones alone, but I am not in favour of saying that the bigger should no longer be allowed to take part, but that should only be a larger one alone. That would be the wrong procedure. It seems to me to be a bit as if in the argument on why the UN was not activated, as is done at the eventual ceilings in the civil process, saying: Firstly, we do not need a decision, secondly, there have been two decisions by the Security Council, and thirdly, Russia and China would never have approved a decision. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fischer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to use the remaining minute of speaking time to tell you: I believe that some of you too quickly reject the proposal that the Vice-Cancecian climate has made with the exception of neutrality for five years. [[Calls:Bundeskanzler! Freudscher Promiser]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are ahead of time!]] I am correcting the proposal made by German Chancellor Klima at the age of five. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] These five years mean not only that you do not make a decision in these five years, but also that you are willing to consider the situation carefully after these five years, to consider whether you have gone further in Europe or not. In this I see a certain opportunity: that, according to all these developments, it is crystallized that we need a European peace order, that we need a joint EU action and also the EU military resources for such action. In this context, I welcome the fact that today it has also been confirmed by the Freedom Party that it is in favour of this European peace order. Others have said that for a long time. I believe that the chance is not that we will strengthen NATO at the expense of the UN, but that the chance is that we will strengthen the UN on a global scale and achieve a uniform European approach at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7666	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7688	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that Mr Schieder – to Mrs Petrovic, because I no longer have the hope that her opinion will change – should not be the hour of open or hidden anti-Americanism that should continue here today. Mr. Arbitrator, don't be angry with me, but it seems cynical to point out, in the face of mass killings, in the face of genocide, that international law has not been fully observed, that the Security Council has not worked, that we must wait until the Security Council finally works, because it doesn't "back" with the Chinese and with the Russians. It is all cynical in this context, Mr Schieder, to speak of ethnic cleansing. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why is this cynical?]] That's cynical, because in the meantime, Zig thousands of victims stay on the track – women, children, giants, mothers, men –, Zig thousands of victims! [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is cynical to say that the UN will intervene as it was in Bosnia. – And then the soldiers stand by and watch women be killed and children slaughtered. That's cynicism! Since it's superimposed – that's what you have to admit openly; whether you're positive or negative to America, it doesn't matter – human rights Belicism now simply plays our international right. If the fundamental right to homeland, the fundamental right to inviolability of the person, the fundamental right to life, all the fundamental rights that our European civilisation is high and holy, Mr. Co. Schieder,... – No. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Does that determine each state for itself?]] You, Mr Arbitrator, have always been one of those who meant that the Community of States must ensure that human rights are safeguarded in Europe, and when it comes to the globe. And now these fundamental rights are being trampled on our doorstep by a tyrant! And I emphasize: He's not alone, he's got thousands of helpers. But then you come and say: We need to talk about the rule of law, international law is not fully respected, and the UN Charter has been a bit violated. – This is cynicism! And I ask you, too, Mr Vice-Chancellor: Stop talking about "ethnic cleansing"! The first one to speak of genocide today, because it is genocide, was Mr. Khol. It is cynical to talk about "ethnic cleansing" in this context! This is an absolute unword that I reject! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This has nothing to do with cleansing! This is left dialectic, ladies and gentlemen! This is bad left dialectic, which is expressed here! Because a Marxist – please do not accept, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I mean genocide – it is suddenly an "ethnic cleansing". [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Dr. Schüssel]] – This is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. Thesis two, Mr Vice-Chancellor: One has been negotiating an evil with Mr. Milošević for so long and did not want to realize that Mr. Milošević and his helpers and executioners are the evil themselves, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This is the problem, and that is one of the lessons to be learned from these processes. You cannot negotiate with dictators – you should know that if you had to live and cope with the whole history of the past 70 years in Europe – if they already have the weapon in their hands and kill people. Mr Schieder, there is only more determined action to be taken. After 1945, the international community has undertaken that such a thing should never happen again in Europe, that such a thing around the globe should never happen again. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But she has also done it to make it legally secure!]] However, if the right does not go far enough if the right becomes in truth powerless, because the facts already completed in the area in question are created, then one must face that accordingly. That is our firm conviction, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Third point. Mr Schieder, you are my witness, and all the members of this House are my witnesses, Mr Vice-Chancellor. We have demanded x-times that genocide and deportation be committed even after decades to the prangler. We have called for a dialogue with the countries concerned to be held and asked what it looks like in their legal order. Mr. Vice-Kanzler, at the time you – I'm not mad at you, but many displaced people are very fond of you – have blamed us for having to deal with the Czechs, with the Slovenians first of all about the abolition of the AVNOJ provisions... – Right, I feel really excellent as "Rabauke". [[Abg. Scheibner: We like to be Rabauken, if this is a rabacon policy!]] If the raucous policy is, then this is an award, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. I'll tell you: If it is required that these states should first bring their laws of injustice into force before they can enter a new legal community if the EU wants to be such, then please be legitimate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Every country should know that every state with its entire history has to take responsibility before the international community and before the community of states! It must not be possible that decades earlier injustices are simply declared dead in the legal order and say, otherwise, we do not realize at all that this is something we have to apologise for before the international community and that it is one story that we have to face. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! [[The speaker holds newspaper articles with photos towards the government bank.]] Look at this. These pictures are all the same. These are, for example, recordings from 1945, and these are 1999 recordings. They're equal to cover! Only the clothes have changed a little, and the vehicles have become a little different. It is similar to what took place in 1945 and what is now taking place in 1999. That is why it is good, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that last week the European Parliament had the courage to say what we have long called for in countless applications since 1993: The Czech Republic cannot be included in the European Union with the Beneš decrees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You refused. Detect You're the one who made this mistake! Aware of this policy of the EU! I would like to ask you at all to show more courage in human rights matters. It cannot be accepted that genocide is being delayed. It cannot be accepted that genocide is tolerated either with regard to the past or with regard to current events. That is what the Federal Chancellor said. Only: When it comes to the Czechs and the Slovenians, it seems that this is not a topic anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, every dictator should know – and this is what Mr Pinochet has to know at present – that every state and people must know: We must stand by the fact that human rights are being trampled on! That is why it is true today that the Community of States is firmly opposed to Mr Milošević and his minions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that this, ladies and gentlemen, has to lead to further legalisation, is indisputable. But Kosovo Albanians cannot wait for it. Ladies and gentlemen! It takes too long! In the meantime, their home has been lost. In order not to continue to participate, the Austrians have fully recognized it, and they also express it by their donations, that we now have to provide help on the ground that we should not distribute the Kosovo Albanians throughout Europe and throughout the world, but rather provide help on the ground to ensure that these people can return to their homes as soon as possible to carry out the reconstruction of what is destroying the Serbs today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Kosovo, it is not the NATO missiles, Mrs Petrovic – she is not here now – but in Kosovo it is the Serbs who destroy the entire villages, systematically destroying them, with very primitive methods of destruction. This country is to become a desert for Kosovo Albanians. Therefore, we do not want to accept that, through a distribution policy of Kosovo Albanians throughout Europe, we will ultimately end Mr Milošević's trade. This is not in question for us, and the majority of Austrians think so. That is why there is such a great amount of donations among people. The Austrians understand the needs that prevail in the Balkans. They feel sorry for the people. They are willing to spend something for these people. They are willing to contribute to their Obolus, to an extent that could be exemplary for Europe as a whole. It must be recognized, however, that the aid must be provided on the ground, and we must be careful not to end Mr Milošević's business.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7827	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7848	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schmidt, you have found that a discussion on Agenda 2000, on the outcome of Berlin, should not be negotiated under one of the conditions in Kosovo. You said that at the beginning of your remarks. [[Abg. Dr Schmidt: That's what Dr. Petrovic said! I didn't say that!]] - Excuse me, then it was Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. I would say that it is right for both to be negotiated together. Because only under the impression of the situation in Kosovo did the summit in Berlin reach an agreement, a result. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! But you have said that this result does not give a signal to enlargement. I would like to contradict this, because it is precisely because the financial plan has been decided by 2006 because of the fact that the financial resources have just been re-transmitted, which ensures that there is sufficient funds available for enlargement. I have been able to convince myself personally and can tell you, on the basis of my own discussions, that the Heads of Government are very likely to be interested in enlargement. But they also need to see the partners. The partners who want to join the European Union, who are happy to be accepted, still have their own tasks to do. In this area, a number of things are already happening, but this is not always the case, and various types of aid, information, seminars and discussions with the candidate countries will help to bring them into line with EU law. This is a valuable contribution to support so that these countries can join. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An important point has already been raised by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chanzler, namely that the border region programme could be implemented on both sides. I still have in mind the contributions made by the opposition here in the House, which the government has not agreed that it will be able to enforce. The decision of this programme shows, however, that we have a negotiating team in the government which is enforceable and competent and knows when it can achieve something at the right time. You will also find at European level – even if you do not want it from the opposition – that: Due to Austria's presidency in the past half-year, our team has gained the trust of the other government colleagues. At European level, it has also been recognized that there is no unfair demand from Austria. That is what Austria was able to bring into the international community, and this has achieved something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since my speaking time is very short, I would just like to mention something that I personally am very affected about. I was personally affected by the statement of the clubman Dr. Khol. [[Abg. Aumayr: I understand!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] No, I'm sorry. I agree with the statements made by Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, a hundred percent. But I miss Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka here in the hall, because I would have liked to tell him personally my opinion and my dismay in the face: my concern that he said "every form of war is neutral". – That has deeply affected me! [[Abg. Aumayr: You sit with him in a government, Mrs. Colleague!]] I asked myself: Has he had so much to negotiate in recent years that he has not experienced what has happened in this region? Didn't he learn from history? He doesn't know the words of Pestalozzi: "You don't know international law without a right of people, and no right of people without human rights"? Or he doesn't know the words of Schiller who said: "The remark is nothing less than new that no wars are being fought at the same time as those that inflame religious fanaticism and party hatred within a state." For this I also mention the following words Voltaires: "He who practices forbearance will be his compliment." [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I cannot be neutral to the victims, the displaced, the killed, the abused and the raped women! I would also like to say this to Mrs. Dr. Petrovic: On the other hand, I cannot be neutral, and on the other hand, I cannot remain silent! I can't be as theatrical here as Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. With her I have the feeling that misses human feeling. It is for animal protection, but not for human protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recall a statement by a deceased dissident and writer from the former Yugoslavia. He said many years ago, when the West took the position to disarm and to reduce the number of weapons: Does the West forget the following? If anyone has weapons, he is the stronger; but if anyone weakens himself, he will never help his right to break through. - I still have that in my ear. I cannot agree with the expulsions that have been taking place in this region for a decade and which are based on the fact that Milošević has removed the autonomy status of Vojvodina and Kosovo – that is what it has begun – and I cannot agree with the neutralist policy of the clubman Dr. Kostelka! I am in favour of a human policy for the victims. I believe that they must be helped, and we can help them. I hope that this debate will be held even more seriously here, and not only in a theatrical way.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7951	Mr Dr Kier has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e7972	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! This debate is indeed a little strained by the speeding up of the Berlin Summit and the Kosovo question. Because the content is so little related that it is simply unpleasant. I would therefore like to turn solely to the question of tragic, criminal and illegal events in Kosovo and, in this context, to try the humanitarian claim of the Republic of Austria, in the hope that efforts will be improved, particularly in the political area. What the humanitarian side is going on, Austria has, in fact, seriously failed in the political area. It has been a serious failure in its presidential phase. We have heard some words today about the fact that the conflict in Kosovo, which has now entered an extremely cruel phase, has long since occurred. We have also heard today that some of them were already in a state of awareness in 1998. One had to fear that refugee tragedy would occur there, and then, if the conflict continues to escalate and if – which has actually occurred, not surprisingly – the regime in Belgrade is negotiating, but does not lead to it being fair, but in truth continues consistently on the path of its nationalist, violent and murderous policies. If the Presidency's phase, particularly in the Council of Ministers of the Interior, had been used to develop common rules for solidarity in the case of such refugee disasters, we would now have the necessary tools at our disposal and would not be able to show that the European Union is by no means exemplary in this matter, and the Republic of Austria in its public statements by the Minister responsible for the Interior. For the first conditional reflection of Federal Minister Schlögl was: We don't take anyone at all. – The second reflection was then – whatever happened between them –: In any case, we take up to a maximum of 5 000. At that time, aid on the ground was not at all mentioned. The first reflex was: We're not doing anything. – I can already accept the fact that this has changed, as the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. But the Federal Chancellor has also spoken of "5,000 and, at least, more". I mean, it is cynical to talk about numbers here, when one knows that the total number of refugees has already reached seven digits, so that the millions limit has exceeded, and that even if we do not have to operate the business of Mr Milošević in the same way as the Liberal Forum, we will still be able to do so by depopulation of the entire region and by disembarking the displaced and the refugees far away, there are many who will not be able to keep in the region because they do not need special help because they themselves cannot stay in a shelter there under suitable conditions because they need medical care et cetera, or because they also have family links in the countries of the Union. If you look at the numbers – they are published daily by UNHCR – you can see the following discrepancy: In Austria we have received 324 refugees today, 9 974 refugees have been taken up in Germany. It was therefore apparently possible to bring a much larger number, also taking into account the safety risks there, to a country that was inclined to take up. Against this background, there may be something worth mentioning. Why has Austria – as a neutral country, as I have heard again today – closed its message in Belgrade with lightning, although NATO countries like Italy and Hungary have kept their embassies open and the non-verbal Sweden has not intended to stop any consular activity? - That's why it's all right. I understand that we cannot expose any risk to our messengers. On the other hand, I always hear that NATO strikes are always focused on military objectives. I cannot imagine that the residence of the Austrian ambassador or the Austrian embassy building itself would have been a priority on NATO's target list. It is also possible to take other safety measures in order not to endanger one's own staff. That one thins it out and reduces the operation, I could understand all of this, but not that one no longer receives an interface for people who need consular assistance there, for Serbs – Kosovo Albanians are Serbian citizens! – who may try to get out of the country on a different path from the mere, naked escape. I find that remarkable. For I would have thought that, if the Austrian Government were to take serious action on the question of neutrality, it would have been a symbol of the message's openness that we were not involved in this military conflict. But not to participate, to take no responsibility, and also to blitzly withdraw any interface, while, once again, I say that, two NATO states, namely Italy and Hungary, as well as Sweden keep their embassies open, and the staff is apparently not treated as persona non-grata: I am sorry. This means a loss of credibility that we could have saved ourselves, both in political and humanitarian terms. That is why I think Austria will have to do more than rely on the public's willingness to help. It will also have to do more than make money available for a camp in Albania. It will have to answer the basic humanitarian questions differently. Unfortunately, the failure in the Presidency is not correct. I would therefore like to make the following comment at this time of the debate. My club woman has tabled a motion for a resolution dealing with the non-existent option report. It is indeed the substantiation of the Austrian dilemma that the Federal Government has so far not decided to present to this House a report on which solutions are in question and which solutions it would prefer. But there has been no debate on this since then, especially none of the government parties. You don't seem to miss that. You seem to be in the opinion: It is good if uncertainty prevails when we make foreign policy on floating ground and operate in domestic Hickhack. Only in this way can this five-year discussion moratorium be understood, which the Federal Chancellor has proclaimed. We already have a four-year moratorium of this kind behind us since we were in the European Union. We have done nothing for four years to resolve the dilemma in which we find ourselves through the tension between accession to the Union and the 1955 Neutrality Act. – The fact that this is a field of tension is still the most modest of all descriptions. We didn't do anything! We only got different positions mixed up. And now we should make a five-year moratorium – but at the same time a common security and foreign policy? Or do we want to retreat? – I believe that no representative of the government parties has said so far, says more about the dilemma and inability of the government than anything else. Finally, I would like to make a motion for a resolution on the issue of refugees. It says: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask that this motion for a resolution be put to the majority. It would also call on the Federal Government to re-acquire what it has failed to do, especially in the time of its presidency. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8081	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Hlavac is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8106	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I originally wanted to comment on the Berlin Summit because I believe that there have been some important and clear decisions there. In my opinion, it is reassuring that, for example, the crisis around the Commission could be resolved very quickly. Negotiations in connection with the Agenda 2000 and the net contribution from Austria also ended positively. A positive outcome of the negotiations could be achieved. Now, however, in the short speaking time available to me, I would like to focus on the Kosovo question because I am very touched by what emotion is being discussed here. Actually, it is not discussed, but many accusations are simply put into the room. There are mutual considerations, for example, in the way that Mr Schieder Zynism is accused when he tries to explain consequences, to practice necessary criticism of NATO, and also to point out how important it is to involve the UN. It was really unfair to accuse him of cynicism, and this does not in any way help to deal with the difficult situation and come to proposals for solutions. Mr Kostelka has been assumed to be neutral in relation to the suffering of the population and the suffering of the refugees. I do not understand how this could be said, nor by a colleague whom I actually know as very constructive. It must not be so that the distress and bitterness in view of the helplessness result in one’s being subordinated to one another things that are really not right. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important that we as the Austrian Parliament, together with the Federal Government, together with the representatives of the Federal Government sitting here, consider the contribution that neutral Austria – I emphasize: neutral Austria – can play in this conflict. I am convinced that, as a neutral, we can make a greater contribution than if we were simply another member of NATO. Austria must also play its role as a mediator, which it has been able to play for so long in a way that is beneficial to the international community. Much has already been done, and our knowledge of the Balkans, our experiences in peaceable and diplomatic fields must be brought in. For we see that the bombardments alone will certainly not lead to a positive result. There must be negotiations. There must be the opportunity to sit at a table and try to solve the problems! There is no question that this conflict in Yugoslavia, which has been shown for so long, must finally come to a solution, which is a solution for all the peoples who live in the former Yugoslavia. It must be over with the deportations, with the mass murders, with the mass rapes! We have been experiencing this conflict for years, these terrible events in the Balkans. First was war for Slovenia, then Croatia and Bosnia followed, and now it is Kosovo. It is obvious that this is going on all the time. It must therefore be stopped! This can only be done in the way that people live together peacefully, that refugees can return, that the injustice committed above all by the government of Milošević is well done and that we all try together to find a peaceful solution. I would like to focus briefly on what Mr Kier said. Austria is providing great aid in the humanitarian field. I think it would be useful to look after the refugees primarily on the ground. However, as one of only two countries, we have also declared ourselves ready to take up refugees. There are not many there yet, but those who have already arrived in Austria are very much supported. The population now shows that there is real human commitment, that people in Austria are very willing to help refugees, and that there is a strong compassion for these people. Minister of the Interior Schlögl has already been very committed to achieving a solidarity within the European Union during the EU Presidency. This has been an activity throughout the Presidency, and it has been set up by it before, because we expect the refugees to be cared for by all European states, not only by neighbouring states. As far as the Austrians' willingness to help is concerned, I would also like to point out that we are often criticized and that it is often said that the Austrians are xenophobic. – In this case, it really turns out that the Austrians are very likely to have a heart for these people, that they are open to them and that they are really taking part in the tragic fate of these people. The Austrian population has done more in this respect and contributed more than all the other countries! I would like to thank you very much for this!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8170	Mr Van der Bellen has also been mentioned. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8191	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot about the history of the conflict in Kosovo today; not everything, because some has been kept silent as to EU and Austrian policy. But it was not said – at least by the Deputy Chancellor and the Chancellor – about two burning questions that are now acute: about the use of ground troops in Kosovo – that means combat forces; not troops after the ceasefire, but combat forces – and about the active use for a fire break, a moratorium, or the subsequent ceasefire. In this respect, I believe that the debate and, above all, the contributions of German chancellors and vice-channers to the particular war dynamics of the present situation have not been met. The Greens have clearly opposed the use of ground troops in Kosovo. I fear that some people here in the house might be mistaken. This does not automatically follow from a pacifist mission or from such a basic attitude, but it follows from the deep concern of security policy for the long-term consequences of this war when it continues. What does that mean? Soil troops in Kosovo? Who is to lead these and from where? Is there enough of Albania's road to Kosovo, stashed by refugees? Or a road from Macedonia? – I already see the preparations in the international press, and a look at the map is enough: Hungary would be the candidate! To conquer Hungary from Belgrade is discussed seriously. One has to imagine what the consequences may be! What consequences does this have for the relationship with Russia, in the medium term? Russia is now weak, but how will that be in five or ten years? – You have to think about all these things! When the first mass-crusted American is shown on TV: What will be the reaction of the American public? Will people there say that it's enough now, or will that lead to the total war, as we know it from the past? I expect an Austrian initiative to do this. It must not always be quite public, but it must at least be understood that something is happening in this direction. The ceasefire, the moratorium of NATO – one side or not; the ceasefire – either side or side – of course, you can say that this is an unrealistic idea and Milošević will not respond to it. That may be, but you have to try. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: He will reject it! He has already rejected the UN Peace Initiative!]] Yes, Mr. Brigadier! I just recommend you read, for example, Egon Bahr's article in the "Time" of last Friday. Egon Bahr takes very thoroughly to the Kosovo crisis In conclusion, there are two statements. I mean, the alternatives that exist are all unpleasant. I think everyone in this House is aware that there is no solution to the conflict. But anyway, Bahr confronts what happens when the war – under quotation marks – ends "morning" and what happens when the war "morning" is not ended. When the war is ended "morning" – in the order: Fire break, ceasefire, conference and negotiations – then there will not be luck in the Balkans, but one can imagine about what the medium-term perspective is. But if the war is not ended, then the consequences are inevitable in every respect! I quote Egon Bahr with the sentence he concludes with: "This price" - all the inevitable consequences, if the war is not ended - "would be too high if the NATO, which has become the air force of the UůK against its will, were now to become its infantry to win a Pyrrhus victory." - Quote. Victory does not necessarily mean winning! That NATO can and will not challenge a reasonable person. Of course NATO can win, that is not the question. But then what? Egon Bahr isn't anyone. If there had been no Egon Bahr and foreign politicians of his blow, there would never have been a reconciliation between the Federal Republic of Germany and Russia, then there would have been no consent from Russia to the integration of the ex-DDR into the Federal Republic of Germany and then there would not be the condition that relations between Germany and Russia are still very good. I wish to make such statements from foreign politicians, but not the statements of – but I do not want to respond to them at all. I do not mean Minister Schüssel now, but I mean, above all, the American Foreign Minister. [[Abg. Controversy: In the same paper there is also a counterposition of one not unknown!]] Of course, yes! But I say quite honestly: I like the position of Egon Bahr better than that of Erhard Eppler. But you are right, Mr President, if you want to suggest that both are to be read. Of course! What are the absolute priorities of the day – regardless of the unacceptableness of the crimes? We don't need to argue about that. We would argue about the importance of NATO's lack of international legal legitimacy, which in my view is also a fact. But regardless of this history: What is the priority of the day? – This can only be called: first limit the conflict, prevent the extension of the conflict, and second: Refugee aid, protection of refugees. And both things are inseparable. In my opinion, the liberals have not yet understood that this is related. Today, too, in contrast to Minister Schüssel, if I understood him correctly, they have strongly pleaded for "curing the refugees on the spot". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr. Jung! Montenegro has 650 000 inhabitants. There are some 75 000 or 80,000 refugees there, according to recent estimates. This would mean, in Austria, that Austria would have to accommodate some 900,000 refugees. This situation must explode! The same situation exists in Albania. In Macedonia, it may be better to follow a trail. [[Abg. Young: Do you want the problem to explode in Austria in ten years?]] It's useless. If you leave the refugees on the spot, the situation will explode with certainty! That the other also has its drawbacks and its problems is of course, but I guarantee the above-mentioned explosion to you, and I would be surprised if Montenegro did not collapse within 14 days. [[Abg. Young: You mean Macedonia?]] No, Montenegro. Today, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel has expressed himself in this direction: that it is not possible to leave all these refugees on the spot. 14 days ago, three weeks ago – I am now looking at the Social Democrats – Minister of the Interior Schlögl has positioned himself completely differently. He changed his position only the day after the "Kronen Zeitung" swivelled, as regards the specific nature of the refugee policy. I can remember that too. Switzerland has already said 14 days ago that it is reckoning, over the year, with a number of Albanian refugees in the order of 60 000. Switzerland! It is not known to me that it is ten times larger than Austria, but it already has a particularly high proportion of Albanians. However, it is not true that only two countries in Europe are concerned about refugees. Mr Klubobmann Khol said correctly: There will be no peace in this region without Russia. That's right, but is this recognition new? How did the EU deal with Prime Minister Primakov's initiative, how did it acknowledge it? How did he stand after that? – Is this the way to treat a potentially important alliance partner?- Oh, my God! Is that the way in which one signals that there will be no legitimacy at least later actions by the UN Security Council without Russia?- Oh, my God! How did Austria behave on this question? It just didn't get through? Has the public, have our EU politicians, or have the Americans perhaps realized that in Russia there are elections in autumn and that, depending on how it is treated by the West, the Kosovo crisis will not remain without impact on the elections in Russia? Has anyone considered how this will serve the security interests of Western Europe in the long term? You see, I'm just trying to think ahead, to calculate long-term consequences and to dispel some of the emotions that everyone, of course, has inseparably in the case of Kosovo. But it's useless. We must also give back to policy the priority it does not have. Now, as it were, one has fallen into a military "logic" that knows nothing but capitulation. More is not available at the moment for Milošević; there seems to be nothing between the consensus of Rambouillet and the capitulation. However, we believe that there must be alternatives – apart from a continuation of the war of bombs against Yugoslavia. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to stress the initiative you mentioned today, Mr Foreign Minister, that together with Switzerland, I would like to give the Red Cross opportunities in Kosovo, and I do not want to hide that that is exactly what we also support and support. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, allow me - I am an economist - to speak on the so-called cost question of this conflict. With deep resentment, I always take away the same numbers – otherwise not uninteresting – from newspapers and magazines. For example, the cost of this war is indicated in the issue of this week's "Mirror" with about 800 million schillings a day. How are these costs determined? – These are always the costs of the shot-down marchers, the ammunition, the fuel et cetera and perhaps some personnel costs. – Such an account is so absurd that I really wonder how it is done. It is true that, on the one hand, costs are underestimated but, on the other, overestimated. The drop of a bomb costs nothing at first. These bombs are rather from the camp, and therefore the costs have been incurred in the past. But what causes the cost is the fact that the bomb is coming down. – So if the cost of NATO alone is in the order of 1 billion schilling per day, and if we underlie NATO with a minimum degree of economic rationality – a questionable assumption – then we can assume that the damage that is done will, of course, be significantly higher than what we ourselves spend, we say 3 billion schilling per day, i.e. about 100 billion shilling per month in total. If that goes on, then the hundreds of billions of schilling will be total, the longer the war will last. Who will finance the reconstruction of Serbia? – I am always asked this on the subway; I hope you, as my colleagues, too, are politicians and politicians. Every day in this war costs a few billion more, not only because of the painful bombing, but also because of the damage caused. I can only say: If only a fraction of this sum had been spent in advance: for refugee aid, for economic aid in this region! Yes, "if"! – What to replace after a bomb war is threefold, tenfold, one hundredfold! To that end, I see it as a small irony of history only if my previous speaker, Mr Hlavac, has stressed with regard to the EU negotiations that Austria will netly pay less in the coming financial compensation of the EU. [[Call the SPÖ:More!]] Mrs Colleagues, these are Peanuts! The billions of fast yet now or in Bälde not only for Kosovo at an incorruptible level! And I also give to the liberals with their defense of this bomb war to bear in mind: The next wave of refugees is guaranteed if this continues, not only from Albania, but also from Serbia, when the war – under quotation marks – is "conquered" when Serbia is as bombed as Germany was in 1945. Then we have the next wave of refugees, which should then be solved on site – and let nothing cost again? I sometimes really doubt the rest of the rationality in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8320	Mr Schwarzböck has now been reported on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8342	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reports by the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor are characterised by two parts: one is the information about the tragedy in Kosovo, which was often discussed, and the other, the happy part is the agreement in the Council summit of Berlin, which ultimately manifests itself in important ways for the European policy of the next seven years, not only in the area of the Agenda 2000 but also in the fundamental financing and structural objectives of the European Union's policy. From the Austrian point of view, it must be said that in many cases already this foundation could be set at work, although many detailed national implementation steps, such as in the agricultural policy, will still be taken. I have therefore also spoken in this debate in order to address this issue, a subject which belongs to my actual task. I say quite openly to them that I share with all the citizens of our country the shock about Kosovo's operations, about the reports that can be drawn from the media on a daily basis, but I agree that I have more of an obstacle to the security policy, military, human rights or international law. However, a number of contributions from members of the opposition have prompted me to deal with this problem, in spite of my original project. The fact is that for weeks the Austrian people have been responding to this tragedy with donations, with aid measures, with volunteers and so on. The fact is also that the Austrian Federal Government has set up activities that deserve something different than being crushed at any price. And there were actually speeches here where, when you listened carefully, you got the feeling that the activities of the Federal Government should really be crushed at all costs. Mr Van der Bellen! In my opinion, their statements have been a good example in today's debate. But given the seriousness you have shown here, I would also have expected another step from you. If you, Mr Van der Bellen, the Austrian Chancellor and the Austrian Foreign Minister, are present as an example of Egon Bahr, then this is legitimate. But you have not answered with any single word that your sister party in the German Federal Government, with Joschka Fischer and the Social Democratic Party of Germany with Schröder and Sharping, in no way responded to this proposal by Egon Bahrs. However, if you ask for this, of course, from the Austrian Heads of Government, this shows that you, Mr Van der Bellen, see it very closely, although I would like to stress once again that your speech was one of the most pleasing of the opposition's ranks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also say quite frankly that I have deep respect for the emotionality of Mr Petrovic in this matter. I have followed all of this in recent years, but I must say: Answers, solutions to Mr Milošević's fourth Balkan offensive, or to 6 million refugees, to 300 000 dead, have not been found, Mrs Petrovic, either. I have only become aware of the following shocking: The international community, or NATO, has – perhaps also said: at the end of its Latin – taken hold of this military battle. Mrs Petrovic criticises – and I believe this to be legitimate – the "lack of legal certainty". She said the whole thing was not right at all. I suppose she meant, according to international law; I'm not an expert there. Years ago, I discussed with Mrs Petrovic whether it is really acceptable for a Member of this House, for example, on animal welfare issues – I emphasize: a very serious issue – to be conscious of the breach of justice and to be accompanied by a television team on public television, which, in my opinion, publicly documents the use of ownership, in an official and legitimately approved facility in Austria, all of this, in order to continue in animal welfare policy. That is, as I think, a very further arch: on the one hand, to question the legality of the NATO strike, but on the other hand to boast of having deliberately broken right in animal welfare issues in Austria! Therefore, I ask you to conclude – I only have a speaking time of 5 minutes –: In all efforts in this direction, please keep at least the seriosity you demand from the Austrian Federal Government to an almost superhuman extent here! This is not going to be the case: where the EU, where NATO is acting in many cases in extreme situations, is responsible to prevent the greatest human suffering, to the Austrian Government, and to say that it is in fact up to us that we have the competence that there will be a ceasefire within days and so on. We fully agree with you on the need to discuss Austria's initiatives. But making yourself here and acting as if it were on the Austrian Chancellor and on the Austrian vice chancellor, whether peace can still be celebrated today, during this parliamentary session, is more than a bold statement – especially in view of the fact that you hide the embarrassment with your party friend Joschka Fischer in Germany here noble. Finally, I would like to say, on the subject on which I have actually referred, that: In this agreement of the European Council at the end of March at the Berlin Summit, I see a reasonable basis for building on a reasonable foundation under predictable conditions in European policy, in the European Union for another seven years together. Finally, I would like to answer a question that I ask myself every day when I see newspaper images or television news of these horrors, of this mass expropriation and mass extermination: What can we personally do beyond what the Austrian Government has already done in an exemplary way? – Probably an even more credible commitment to joining one another, to a more partnershipal policy, to overcoming interests, to more tolerance and more humanity – not only in words, but also in deeds. This should be reflected above all in discussions by members of the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8425	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking on the floor. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8446	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Arbitrator referred to the fact that the Community of States in the Kosovo conflict faced a very serious challenge. We have now seen that the adoption of this challenge has led to a tremendous disaster. The High Commissioner for Refugees, Ogata, put it to the point: It has been estimated that 100 000 people would be accommodated, but now it has become 900 000 refugees to care for the UNHCR. Mr Van der Bellen! They thought that if all the financial resources now spent on bombs and war materials were put into the country, then what is happening could have been prevented. – I can only say that it would be very nice if politics worked that way. But we know very well that, unfortunately, God's policy is different. Even if one had put all the means of this world to Serbia, Milošević would probably not have taken his dream of a “cleanned” Serbia. I mean, one must also take note of this reality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to say honestly, I do not know how to solve the problem better. But I am quite sure that one cannot accept such genocide, such "ethnic cleansing" or as always one calls it. That's quite clear! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The word "cleaning" has forbidden your clubman!]] For example, when the Germans were expelled from the Czech Republic in 1945, the whole world watched, some of which were even applauded for this exorcism. And later, in Serbia, these evicts were even celebrated as heroes. Those who have driven the Germans have been shown in the school books as great heroes. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: But there has been a history of several million dead! Germany has already done something before!]] But there must be no more sanctions in such a case! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think every country needs to know: If such genocide occurs, then consequences can be expected from the international community. Mr Van der Bellen! You have also raised the accusation that the policy now being made is not realistic, you doubted their sense of reality. – I think, in spite of all the emotions, one has to keep a sense of reality. I think it is really wrong to say, in view of this number of 900 000 refugees in the neighbouring countries of Serbia: We must now take up all refugees, at least a large part of them, and distribute them across Europe! – In my opinion, this is not the case, because it would only be possible to achieve the intentions of Milošević, a so-called ‘cleaned Kosovo’, and thus we would fulfill his greatest wish. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Those countries that refuse to take up refugees – especially on the grounds that they would support Milošević – know exactly why they represent this position and say: No, we're not taking refugees! For example, the EU Commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs, Ms Bonino, said: Even if we take in 50,000 refugees, Milošević will sell another 100,000 in the next few hours. Mr. Foreign Minister Schüssel has already said today that eight times Milošević has done the same again and 6 million people have had to leave their home country. I therefore believe that the attitude taken by some EU countries, namely the position not to take refugees, is quite right, especially with regard to Milošević's policy. On the other hand, we believe that there is no second Bosnia-Hercegovina action. At that time it was also said that those 90,000 Bosnians who came to Austria will return to their country. – Only 20,000 returned, 70 000 remained in Austria! And of course it will also be so with the Kosovars that they want to stay in Austria. And we just don't want that! Mr Vice-Kanzler Schüssel said today – very emotionally – that Macedonia is afraid of its ethnic balance in order to achieve ethnic balance if Kosovaren continues to come into the country. – Mr Vice-Chancellor! I really believe that these concerns about alienation – no matter how they are now called – must also be applied to Austria. While you have great understanding that Macedonians are afraid of being overrun by the Kosovo refugees, you do not understand that the Austrians are also afraid that too many foreigners will come to Austria. We have already seen that there has been an enormous shift: After all, Islam is already the second largest religious community in a deeply Christian country like Austria. – So I think that has to give us some thought. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support us in this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8547	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Gusenbauer has now been reported to the House. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8572	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If in the entire debate about the war in Kosovo, alternatives, causes and other processes are sought and discussed, then two things should be considered. Point one: I have great respect for the statement "Never again Auschwitz!", and before that such systematic genocide cannot be allowed a second time. This attitude is based on many of the activities in the European Union. Secondly, as I believe, we must also ask ourselves the question: How can democratic states by their policies prevent another person from coming to a position in history, as Hitler held in Germany before the Second World War – or how it now clearly takes Milošević in the former Yugoslavia? – This does not see itself in a very strong inner opposition, but quite the contrary: its position of intensification of the very aggressive Serbian line clearly meets with support despite its otherwise very modest political results. Of course, the question is: Would it have been to prevent a whole country from following someone like Mr Milošević? – In this context, a key point must be taken into account in particular: Was Serbian nationalism in the Balkans the only aggressive nationalism – or did there not also exist other aggressive nationalism, which the West is neutrally opposed to? And has this undivided opposition to other nationalism led only to the fact that the Milošević policy in Yugoslavia could be implemented in this way? Further: Where was the international community when it came to supporting a democratic opposition in Serbia, which had not only achieved some strength on the streets but also in municipal elections, and an alternative to Mr Milošević and his regime? – There have been failures and failures in all these areas. I would also like to add that I can recall exactly when we discussed the Dayton Agreement here in the House, and I said at the time: This agreement carries in it the germ of the next war, because in good time no agreement was reached on Kosovo and in the American and also other media Milošević was celebrated as – under quotations – “peacemakers”. Nothing has happened for years. And now we are acting by means that are considered to be massive. I no longer need to talk about the humanitarian and other effects of the war; these have already been presented to the satisfaction of the day. The economic impact has also been mentioned. And one already has the impression that there is a certain misunderstanding of the means that in the past little, nothing or the wrong was made and is now very massively tried with bombs to correct the mistakes of the past. – However, there is the question: Is that possible at all? It was people like Henry Kissinger and others who are absolutely not unthinkable of foreign policy who have complained that behind these bombings there is no appropriate political strategy. Because it raises the question: What should the reorganisation of the Balkans look like? Does anyone believe that it is possible to return to the status quo ante as it would have been possible in Rambouillet itself, namely that Kosovo remains part of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, or that the UK will be satisfied with the rules of autonomy there? – That is to say, the question of what is to be done there is to a great extent open and unanswerable. In many of the public statements that are now being made by different people, I sometimes feel that it is no longer a question of preventing this humanitarian disaster, which has become even more severe during the bombings, but of obviously other considerations in the foreground. For example, if Mrs. Albright just said more to the American Senate as an answer and an alternative: "Strike, traps, traps till the very end!" then you have to ask yourself: What does that mean? – That means nothing more than the fact that ground troops are to be used in Kosovo in the foreseeable future, that there will be one of the bloodiest wars there, whereby we can rely on the Serbs most likely to resist to the last man, so that we have to focus on an incredibly bloody and wary struggle. I therefore believe that foreign policy is particularly required in these days before it comes to this next stage of escalation. It is a political solution for which the conditions have become better by changing the behaviour of Russia, as I mean. This political solution must be implemented before the next step is taken. I fully agree with what our special ambassador Wolfgang Petritsch carried out today in an interview when he said that in the present situation it was primarily necessary to remove himself from the entered military logic. This has the only ratio to offer the more: ever more intense air attacks up to ground troops. - Quote. I believe that this statement by an intimate expert of the situation in Kosovo is not really something to add – apart from the willingness to contribute to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8643	Mrs Gredler has now been mentioned. - Please. At 3 p.m. I would have to interrupt you if you did not end your remarks by then.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8664	Mr President, I hope I have reached a conclusion at this time. – Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that there has been a lot of surprise in today's statements by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. He said, among other things, that there could be a need to increase the number of persons admitted to the refugee camp, or that it should be considered whether the number of persons admitted to Austria could also be increased. In view of the fact that we are talking about 600 000 people, I ask you whether we have really achieved the goal we have set ourselves at twice as many as 5,000 people. Can't we get back to Austria? Is this really an honest effort by the Federal Government to say that "in some cases we might be able to absorb more, perhaps it will be even 10,000". – Is this really honest in view of a situation where other countries have to cope with a dozen times the number of refugees, countries that have only a fraction of our resources?- Oh, my God! I think that's really disgusting. And I think we should at least agree not to say that we are the best in the humanitarian field at all. Was it not true that only seven days after the start of this war did the Federal Government convene the first meeting with the NGOs? – These were seven days of freezing, hunger, seven days of uncertainty for the refugees! And praise does not exist at present the deepest winter, otherwise everyone would have been frozen. I believe that the Federal Government has not had a good crisis management. At the beginning, she spoke of a 10 million Schillings stake. Ten million schilling, in words: ten! – Only when she noticed that 10 million schilling really did not get through has she increased it to 500 million schilling. – This is not an appropriate crisis management! Talk to non-governmental organizations! These will tell you how inadequate approaches to assistance we have. Why are we unable to set up refugee camps? – Other states do this in 36 hours! We only received the first refugees after 25 days. 36 hours compared to 25 days! That's the difference we should keep in mind! In humanitarian matters, we are at the beginning of our opportunities to solve the problems of this situation, but certainly not at the end. In connection with the claim that, together with another State, we are the only ones in Europe who have taken up refugees, I would like to refer you to the UNHCR homepage, which can be found at www.unhcr.ch/news et cetera, until you come to Kosovo. I would like to read to you from this: Belgium until today 515 recordings, France 348, Germany 9 974. – Now I wonder: Why does Germany bring 9 974 people into aircraft, while we are unable to reach this frequency of flights? "For security reasons", as you say, Mr. Federal Minister? - That's a joke! Explain They are there to the people who stand in the rain and have no shelter that for "security reasons" we see no way of bringing them to Austria at all! I will continue to read: Why, then, does Israel take up 106 persons? Why does Poland take in 545 people? Poland – is this such a rich country? I didn't know that! Or: Why does Turkey take in 3,849 people? Is Turkey such a potent state? Does Turkey have so much money left? I'm really wondering what it's all about. – I think we have a lot more opportunities if we just wanted to. In this context, I must allow you, Mr Federal Minister, to ask you to act in a really different way, in other words in relation to the Serbs. Austria is preparing storage camps for deserters. Is that really what you want? Is this really a neutral attitude when we are deserters in storage camps...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8711	Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, in a quarter of a minute I have to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8726	Then please interrupt me.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8744	In a quarter of a minute, right?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8760	I am going to make a motion for a resolution which will last longer than a quarter of a minute.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8790	The speeches of the speaker have been interrupted. Your speaking time, of course, continues to be preserved. Short debate on deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8811	A brief debate should now be held in accordance with business rules. This brief debate concerns the request made by Mrs Gabriela Moser, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to report on Amendment 1055/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Langthaler, Dr Gabriela Moser and comrades on the concreteisation of anti-atomic policies: Temelin will focus on a period of up to 18 years. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative The vote on this request for a deadline will take place after the debate has been held. We are now going into the debate. I make the following time limits according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: The first speaker has 10 minutes available for reason, each additional speaker 5 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Gabriela Moser, receives the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8842	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The government bank is empty. Austrian nuclear policy is not a major issue. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In case of deadlines this is not customary!]] In the event of such a deadline, I consider it natural that a member of the government should also deal with it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: If they had known you were the next speaker, they would have been here!]] – Nevertheless: Was that preventable?, was asked. Was that preventable? This question was in the room today, and this question will also stand in the room if on 19 February. The decision to complete Temelin will fall on May, without Austria having really used all the possible means, all the possible instruments to bring about the construction stop in order to prevent completion in the Czech Republic from taking another, a better energy path. An unabated countdown is running. A nuclear countdown is running, Temelin is at the tip, Temelin is preventable! Atom political is once again a fire on the roof. But those who do not intervene are the German Chancellor's climate. Those who keep themselves covered, those who don't drive to Prague, are the German Chancellor's climate. Those who do not take this unique opportunity to again take the lead in the nuclear debate at European level are the German Chancellors' climate. We have already carried Temelin decisions together here in the House. It has always been difficult to negotiate the fact that these nuclear decisions have become more concrete. Each time, the Greens in the Committee meetings had to push for an offensive Austrian nuclear policy to focus on the most promising project – and the most promising project is Temelin. Austrian nuclear policy must focus on this! There have been resolutions, but they have only been partially implemented. That is why this time-limitation debate is taking place again here and today. Here and today again, I believe, at least tenth of my call: The Austrian anti-atomic policy must again become the main issue! We know exactly how urgent this is. I know there are negotiations at ministerial level, there are probably contacts at various other levels, but what is missing is what is urgently needed, and what our partners in the Czech Republic expect – whether it be Mr Kuzvart's Minister for the Environment, or Mr Kavan's Minister for Foreign Affairs – is a visit to climate at Zeman. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] You all know that the negotiations with Temelin are very, very favourable. ==References== New expert opinions must be submitted on April, including Austrians. You also know that Minister Prammer and Minister Bartenstein are active, but you will notice that, on the one hand, there is a climate of the carnage, on the other, that the carnage is not moving on and a one-time chance is missed, if not an appointment. This deadline has a single goal, and that is to say – I repeat it for the eleventh time –: Climate must go to Prague! We know that hard negotiations are on the agenda in the nuclear scene. But we also know that there is now a unique path in Prague, in which almost every day in the Czech Republic, on the one hand, the public is calling for a stop to construction and on the other hand, government members are increasingly tending to stop building. Who in this situation will be the tip on the balance is clear: This is the Czech Prime Minister Miloš Zeman. He is a Social Democratic, and he is also a political friend of German Chancellor climate. That's where the lever has to be set first! We are here and now, in a nuclear way, we are really just a meter ahead of the finish! But at this one meter we begin at once to let the reins loose, at this one last meter we begin at once to put in the empty run instead of giving full gas. That's why it's our concern here and today: We need to definitely pack this opportunity in the kick, really recoup it into a massive offensive and now actually take the last chance. This is – I say it for the twelfth time –: Climate must go to Prague! You are also aware of how important it is to set up activities at EU level. But there too we miss the advances of Mr Vice-Chancellor Schüssel. In this respect too, there have already been resolutions here in the House so that the levers can be used at EU level for concrete exit projects and concrete financing commitments. That is why, with the deadline, our request has this direction again today. They all know that the Federal Republic of Germany will play an important role in the accession negotiations of the Central and Eastern European countries. What prevents us from using our contacts so that climate can also be introduced to Schröder, so that German chancellor Schröder Temelin will also make the main issue so that there is a re-pollution of what European nuclear policy is going on? – Temelin is the key project! If the construction stop is suspended at Temelin, there is another way to go, then it looks much, much cheaper for Central and Eastern Europe as a whole. If an exemple is set for Temelin, if it is finally implemented as a sample example, then there is the possibility of closing Bohunice too, then there is the possibility of closing even the very dangerous reactors in Lithuania or Bulgaria, then K2/R4 is also to stop. No question! But with Temelin it starts, there is the lever on, and there we have to push! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler Klima has repeatedly pointed out, on the occasion of repeated urgent questions we have put to nuclear policy, that Austria has a step-by-step function here. But just the last step – I say, the step of the last meter – that is now coming, is not perceived by him, is not taken by him, is not made by him. In my opinion, this is really a scandal! This is a capitulation, although the victory is practically tangible in reach, located in a one-meter distance. In this question, take the stepmaker role again and implement it concretely and offensively, that would be the command of the hour! As I said, The countdown is running. ==References== ==References====External links== The decision of the Czech Government is taken on May 1. Until then, there are a few weeks left. These weeks must be used! An appointment should be set immediately and top talks should be held. The anniversary of the Chernobyl reactor disaster is coming on Monday. A commemorative minute is to be held again on Monday, which leads to the disaster of Chernobyl. On Monday, President Zeman's "red" phone should ring and the announcement should be made: Climate's coming. I would ask you to agree to our deadline for climate change to go to Prague.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8934	The maximum speaking time is now 5 minutes. Mr Oberhaidinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e8959	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I come back to the statements made by my previous speaker. Mrs. Dr. Moser! I do not understand the meaning of your request for deadlines. I see far and wide no failure by the Federal Government. You know, as I do, our joint motion for a resolution, and if you consider the report to the Council of Ministers of the 12th century. As I have said, you will find that much of what we have given to the Federal Government has already been implemented. In the course of this debate, I would like to highlight the role of experts, who have been able to make their own technical contributions within an extremely short period of time, not only to create but also to transmit them in a timely manner. These are contributions that make it possible for a system comparison to be made. How does it look when Temelin is finished? Or: What must happen if Temelin is not finished? For example, will gas steam power plants be built with heat coupling? Or: What must be done on the consumer side? What measures do we need to take in order to really save effectively here? The Austrian contributions have been fully incorporated into the final report and the key statements can again be found in the general report. I welcome the fact that most of the Czech experts also agree with the contributions made by our experts that the Czech experts also largely represent the result. Ladies and gentlemen! The opening conference on Czech-Austrian Energy Partnership showed that we have many common approaches and ideas for future-oriented non-nuclear strategies. However, it has also been shown – and this is noted by looking at the protocols – that truly viable concepts can only be drawn up together with the country concerned. Now to you, Mrs. Moser, you have hosted the visit of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Prague. You know, climate has written Zeman yes. And he did not leave it by writing, he declared two weeks ago in Upper Austria that he wanted to speak to Zeman in good time. I don't know if you've read the Upper Austrian newspapers. This was also brought to the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". This declaration was made in Upper Austria. For me, it was public enough and therefore binding. It is important that our Chancellor, in his letter, but also in his previous statements on this subject, also pointed to the European dimension – and especially to the question of security. Mrs Prammer has given her full support to the Czech Minister for the Environment Kuzvart, with whom there have been a great many discussions lately. Kuzvart has also established an ad hoc working group, which I am particularly pleased with. All of us have already believed that the decision is finally taken, but a working group has been set up which has the task of identifying the consequences of the construction adjustment and the consequences of the completion accordingly, in accordance with all the possible criteria. Mrs Moser! As you have addressed Germany and Chancellor Schröder: It should not be mentioned that there has already been a discussion between Mrs Prammer and the German Federal Environment Minister Trittin. I hope that this will result in a number of joint actions towards the Czech Republic, in particular the activities you have referred to at the level of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! We have provided three experts to the said working group. Dr. Heindler and Dr. Heindler have been known from the last time, and Mr. Rechtsanwalt Dr. Autumn, who will deal with the "Stranded Costs" in the Czech Republic in particular. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, I see no reason for a deadline request. I think there's only one failure: We, the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have not yet managed to discuss this issue with colleagues in the Czech Republic. That bothers me very much. I know the President has already written. At the moment, however, there is no date yet. I also do not see specific activities by the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Karl Schweitzer. It is not known to me that he would work intensively to get a conversation, a good debate. In my opinion, the soil would be well prepared, and the conversation would be overdue for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9024	Mr Schuster is also on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9045	Mr President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! At the threshold of the third millennium, we are all facing major and, above all, rapidly changing. They lead to political upheavals, to internationalisation and to the collapse of certain economic and social systems. And at this time, we are discussing two very large areas, namely genetic engineering, which is very busy with us, and, on the other hand, the peaceful use of nuclear power, as you would like to say. Ladies and gentlemen! As the Upper Austrian, I can tell you: Anyone who travels on the road towards Budweis and sees the cooling towers growing in Temelin – the closer you get to Temelin, the bigger these cooling towers – must be aware of what it means to have, so close to the Austrian border, a nuclear power plant under construction that does not conform to the Western standards. Mrs Moser! They themselves commit me, I believe, as the Upper Austrian, to the fact that Temelin is more than just a political subject. In my view, Temelin is a safety, health, environmental, energy and employment issue. It includes, as it were, all areas of our lives. Therefore, we need, of course, at the head of the German Chancellor's Office – because nuclear issues fall into it competently – and we need the relevant ministries, but we also need the land days that go hand in hand with them. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out that, in my speech today, my thanks to all the volunteer activists, all the communities who are willing to join the above-party platform against nuclear hazards, and who, with their contribution, support financially all those who carry out educational work in Temelin, who are also on their way in Austria and who are making alternative proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be said today that the issue of temelin has not been relevant since 1999. As early as 1986, the Upper Austrian Land Day made a clear statement in a unanimous resolution that all policies must be used to prevent the construction of a nuclear power plant near the Austrian border and that everything must be done to keep Central Europe free from nuclear power plants. This was, of course, an occasion for Chernobyl. That was in 1986. And in the same year, the national headquarters conference unanimously – it met in Bregenz – supported this oberösterreichian idea. High house! This Federal Government, in its Coalition Convention, of 11 May, adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, of She meant – I quote –: "Austria will focus its active policy on environmental protection and resource conservation in the European Union. Austria will be committed to the introduction of ecologically sound minimum standards in all areas of environmental protection" – and now it is coming! – "and maintain the active role against the use of nuclear power." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! You know: When the Austrian Foreign Minister handed over the EU Presidency to his German counterpart, he explicitly pointed out that under the EU Presidency of Germany everything must be done so that Temelin is not finished or, if so, the latest Western standards must be adapted. So, in summary, I mean: If the Federal Government, the Land Days and the Ministries are trying to do their best, then I hope that the statement can bring us together, which reads as follows: "How beautiful the world would be if everyone did only half of what they demanded of others!" [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: That means you agree?- Oh, my God!]] And this 'do only half', Mrs Colleague, means that those who are in the government have the responsibility to make a policy based not only on diplomacy, but above all on sustainability. We from the Austrian People's Party will not agree to this deadline proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9093	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9114	Mr President. High house! It is always admirable how the ÖVP – as well as the SPÖ – gets the curve when it comes to the anti-atomic policy of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: We don't need to get curves, we got them!]] Lip confessions are given here. Mr Schuster points out the resolution of the Upper Austrian Land Day as a measure against the construction of the Temelin power plant! Mr Schuster! Tell me how the EIA has voted here in this House when the construction of Temelin, the non-realisation of Temelin, and the accession to the European Union or the accession negotiations have just been voted on. How did the ÖVP vote here? – She voted against it! And you're taking this as a measure against Temelin! This is a hypocrisy that goes out here seeking the same! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It should be noted, of course, that the application also poses some dangers. For, Mrs Langthaler, explaining the completion of Temelin as the chief cause and demanding that climate negotiations be conducted, is, as I think, almost a threat – for the following reason: I can still remember when Mochovce was declared the chief cause and also at Mochovce the junkim existed: Accession negotiations are only available when it is clear that Mochovce is not being built and Mochovce is not in operation. – At that time climate took the problem of Mochovce and meant that the demand of the liberals, a junkimation, did not come into question. A Wink with the pointing finger had to play at the diplomatic level. The fact is that Mochovce went into operation. And it all points to the fact that the power plant Temelin, which is particularly threatened by the Upper Austrians, will also operate, which is also equipped with a Russian nuclear reactor and which has the same uncertainty. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: You're not up to date! I'd tell myself before!]] Mr Oberhaidinger! I'd like to thank you. It was the first time that you did not point out, in a speech relating to the anti-atomic policy, that the energy industry is ultimately based on a national regulation and that each state can regulate its own energy sector. This does not satisfy the security needs of the Austrians, especially the Upper Austrians! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: It worked!]] Of course, it applies to the SPÖ, as well as to the ÖVP, that in the Upper Austrian Land Day they unanimously adopted this resolution to decide on a junkimation. However, the fact is: Here in the House, where this has to be implemented, a corresponding request by Mr Schweitzer and Mr Hofmann, who have this junkimation, was rejected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] The announcement to involve Mrs Prammer here, which is also called on in this deadline proposal to take immediate action to draw up a single line in order to launch an offensive of the Federal Government, is also a serious threat. Mrs Langthaler! In this context, I would like to remind you of what Mrs Prammer said about Mochovce. It is dangerous to have Mrs Prammer deliver opinions, because she said the following about Mochovce – I quote from a newspaper article –: "On the question of why Austria did not link Slovakia's ambitions for accession to the EU and clearly with the demand for Mochovce, says the Minister, a final assessment of the nuclear power station has not yet been made, because it has not yet entered service." - Quote. All right! First, you go into operation, you get the area contaminated – because it doesn't matter if a dangerous reactor is running a test operation or a normal operation. The de facto power plant is therefore in operation, and this is also irreversible. In that respect, I would like to ask at least for such measures to be taken. This process poses a threat to the Austrian population. I hope that measures will finally be taken to effectively prevent this unwholesome Temelin power plant.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9192	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Large words for a small matter in itself, which is why - and I am particularly saying this because this debate is also pleased with a great audience in the gallery - because it is simply and simply a question of whether we are discussing a request from Mrs Langthaler and Mrs Moser, who was put in plenary at the end of March, who has already been assigned to the Committee, or not. Everything else that has been said here is also important aspects, that is no question at all. But this discussion must be held in the Committee. Mr Schuster. You have said here at the speaker's desk that you are possible for everything and you are grateful to all people who have come to Upper Austria in particular on this issue. In this respect, you must agree. However, I do not understand your conclusion, why you say: However, we speak at the Hohenhaus until 19. Don't talk about it on May. That was the central statement you made here. They say it's great that everyone does something. There must be something to be done, the Upper Austrian Parliament is also doing something, we here in Parliament have a request from Mrs Langthaler and Mrs Moser, but we will certainly not talk about this request. This is schizophrenia in this house! For it is undisputed – especially thanks to Mrs Prammer – that there is at least a four-party consensus to go – the liberals do not agree on this issue – that it is a priority to put pressure on us now. This has already been clarified in a resolution. But that the National Council once again takes up this question, simply one sign until the 19th century. It is a question of making it clear that the representatives of the people in Austria have not lost sight of this issue, but are interested in the fact that there is a further discussion on the issue, which, ladies and gentlemen, is being refused this sign. And that's just incomprehensible. That is why the Liberals will, of course, agree with this deadline proposal, which does not want anything other than to discuss and discuss all these issues in the Committee, once again! – to set a sign from the People's Office as well. One thing has to be added in addition. The request, which has been made in the House and supported by four parties, with the exception of the Liberals, does not require that the German Chancellor of Climate Change to be held with his Czech counterpart, but in particular that the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of the Interior should take action. That's important. You do something in this matter, too. But it would have been diplomatically different if – almost immediately before the decision was taken in the Czech Republic in May – it would have been re-enacted by the Federal Chancellor and if the representatives of the people in Austria would say that this is an important issue for us, we will talk about it again. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing else wants this deadline request, and it is therefore appropriate to proceed in this way. Mr Schuster. I am surprised when you say that the non-Western security standards seem to be the major problem for you. This is, in fact, fundamentally different from the position of the Liberals. The question of nuclear energy is not about safety standards, but primarily about the fact that this use is not at all taking place, because it is not only at any cost that is true in relation to the market, but also because it ultimately means a threat which we cannot all finance but cannot account for. Therefore, not the safety standards are priority, but priority is that this power plant does not go into operation at all. If the representatives of the people in Austria, the parliament, do so before the 19th century. In May, we could do so, and then we should not go into part-tactical calculations here, as Mr Schuster has done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9277	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9299	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In some of the debates in this House, it is really questionable whether irrationality can be increased at all or whether it is still possible to penetrate with reason in any form. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Only if you go to the speaker's desk!]] Mr Schuster. They spoke with a strong voice about the need to do something against Temelin. They refer to the Federal Government, to the countryside, even to the population, but you yourself obviously do not feel at all addressed and asked to do something. But I can't take anyone seriously here in the House who thinks from this speaker's desk that he's also against Temelin, but he doesn't really want to do anything. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Yes!]] I think that's a measure! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: We did something in my district!]] We obviously have a common opinion on Temelin, which I take from the speeches of all five political groups. This supposedly common view is that we are against the start-up of this nuclear power plant. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Mühlbachler.]] Don't rain up like that! It seems that I have met your wounded point, namely that you are very, in order to be politely formulated, discouragingly or perhaps very hypocritically. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] If you are against the launch of Temelin – and I take all the contributions I have made – from all the five parties, then you can discuss the different strategic ideas. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have no idea!]] And I would like to say that each group would propose a different way of doing so. But it is actually true that, although we are quite right in everything, it is at the same time rejected to debate our request at all. I would like to thank my previous speaker Thomas Barmüller once again. He's been sketching that all the way. It is only about voting here and today, whether or not before the 19th century. A corresponding initiative will be taken in this House on May – and not on the content of the request! Today we had a Kosovo debate for hours, in which there was a constant resounding: Yes, one has failed afterwards, and one should have done so much in advance! - Right! Only: There, where it would be possible to act in advance, politics on all levels obviously fails – including those in this House. We basically have no weight in many areas of international policy, because we are a very small country. But there are some areas in which Austria, especially because it is a small country and precisely because of its history and tradition, has a certain influence. As far as Temelin is concerned, we have a chance. There is a very real chance! We Greens are now proposing several strategies. For example, a strategy would be that the Federal Chancellor – as the head of the Federal Government – takes the lead in an offensive to show what important concerns the entire federal government and thus the entire population are. He should negotiate ad personam with Prime Minister Zeman and try to frighten the Czech government for a loss of prestige, for this is mainly the case in the Czech Republic. You can talk about it with many people in Prague at the moment, and most see that this project does not make any ecological or economic sense. It makes no sense, especially economically! It's not supposed to be a good money to the bad one. The whole project does not make any sense at all – as the studies that Mr Oberhaidinger mentioned – in economic terms. The experts in Prague know that too. But their problem now is so to speak: How do we tell the population? How do we legitimise the many billions that have already been invested? How can you admit this mistake? It is very difficult for a government to admit that one has made a serious mistake, even though the government party was in opposition at the time. I recall all those incidents that occurred before Zwentendorf in Austria. This is about the prestige of a government. And this fear and this irrationality must be opposed. There is the possibility to negotiate for this, but it must be taken. It's not from heaven! What we can see, however, is that here in Austria there is a gap day by day and basically hardly anything happens. There are some initiatives, particularly initiated by Minister Prammer, which are good, which we also support, but that is too little. That's a drop on the hot stone! That is why I would like to make one more point. You appeal, ladies and gentlemen: Not only do you always speak from this speaker's mouth with beautiful words about your being against nuclear power, but take action! Feel personally responsible for acting! You are elected Members, you are expected to act on your own initiative – not only on the orders of the Federal Government! At last, think about it yourself! Voices You're just the way you can represent it in front of your conscience! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] But that would mean that You, of course, want this Parliament to set up an initiative for the Members of this Parliament to take up until 19. In fact, to support the Austrian Federal Government's strategy, we need to reassess May and do everything we can to support it. Mr Oberhaidinger complained that the chairman of the Environment Committee, Mr Schweitzer von der FPÖ, did not organise a visit to the Czech Republic. Yes, for God's sake! [[The speaker points to the ranks of SPÖ delegates.]] That's where the majority group sits! It will be possible to take control of the telephone listeners themselves, call them there and organize a visit! This has also brought together two Green Members. We were with the Czech Foreign Minister. We were at the Ministry of the Environment of the Czech Republic, and this one immediately received us. It's not like you're coming there on enemy territory. Of course, it would also be possible for an Austrian parliamentarian delegation to get a visit in time. But just as you keep it with our request, keep it with a visit: Nice talk, but don't do anything! – This provides a sad picture of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9417	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. I would ask you to take the places, because we are now voting, and we are voting on Mrs Gabriela Moser's request to report to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 1055/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Langthaler and comrades on the concreteisation of anti-atomic policies – Temelin's focus is on a period of up to 18 years. In May 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. If you would like to accept this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9454	We shall now return to the negotiations on Agenda item 1. Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9478	Mr President. High house! In my speech I had just arrived at the point storage camp for deserters and to an important point... [[State Secretary Dr. Wittmann talks to the government bank. Arbitrator.]] I would not like to interrupt you, Mr Arbitrator, but I would be right if the colleague on the government bank would pass on what I am now saying. [[Abg. Schieder: I would like to continue!]] It is about Serbian children, and in so far as it is I hope you understand that. It is about Serbian children who are trying to get to Austria to their parents, but have to wait for weeks for a tourist visa. I believe that these children should have the same right to our attention as the children of Kosovo Albanians, that they should also be regarded as a kind of refugees, and that they should immediately receive a corresponding status – that is, the permission of the Minister of the Interior to come to Austria to their parents. I know several cases of this kind. Do you believe, Mr Wittmann, that I have already considered whether I am not going to the border with these children and being arrested as a tow? For I think it unbearable to let these children be consciously in Serbia, knowing that they sometimes live only 200 meters away from bombarded areas, and that from Austria we do everything we can to avoid helping them. In this context, I would also like to tell you, Mr Wittmann, a few things that I have heard from the international observers currently in the camps. There are supposed to be four officials of the Ministry of the Interior who are there to issue visas for those refugees we are receiving in Austria. These people make it nice to express it, so to speak, "service according to prescription". You're not engaged! There's far too little... – That's right! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's not true!]] Go with me to the phone and call the people who are in this refugee camp. In order to deal with this task, neither the number of officials mentioned nor their current commitment is sufficient. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: They are very involved! I know it myself!]] If I were to pass on to you what I have been told about these officials, you would be ashamed of their commitment there! But I do not want to repeat this in plenary. I think it's enough to pass this on informally. I repeat our demands: a kind of refugee status for Serbian children, an appropriate treatment for the desertors and the conscientious objectors of Serbia who do not want to participate in this war, and – one of my previous speakers has already said this – one should seek cooperation with Russia. In this regard, the President of this Parliament, Dr Fischer, is called upon to speak seriously with the President of the Russian Parliament. We need Russia to cooperate in order to satisfy this region, and that is why we also need the Russian Members. The Russian Members, namely the majority of Members – I am not talking about the Liberal Group which is in place in the Russian Parliament and which, fortunately, takes a very moderate position – are actually of the opinion that Russia should not resist military participation, and I really think this is the greatest danger. I think it is the greatest danger if we in Europe prepare the ground for the election of a radical President of Russia. These are things that I think we should change. What do you need to do in the Balkans? – One has to hand over the countries – first. We must make it clear that we see the Balkans as part of Europe and that we are looking for countries to join the European Union. I believe that the breeding ground for Milošević supporters would be removed if one said that democratization was a priority and they would only be taken up afterwards. This has been the case in Slovakia so far. I hope it also works elsewhere. They will have to talk about the inflexibility of the borders later. In my opinion, we should also support the fact that the High Commissioner for National Minorities of the OSCE is receiving a corresponding Observatory. If such an observation body is not already possible, at least within the United Nations there should be a genocide observation centre, which can be alarmed and activated at the first signs. A genocide observation centre in Africa, but obviously and unfortunately God also has a great task in Europe. The Foreign Minister is not present. Would you please tell the Foreign Minister that Austria could set up activities to set up a genocide observation centre at international level that we need? I come to the conclusion, Mr President, and I would like to read the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that we do well to follow the example of Switzerland on this issue. In Switzerland, 3.12 million francs have recently been found and frozen. A person who has obviously acquired a fortune through illegal transactions and who is still responsible for the murder of Zig thousands of people must also be persecuted in this area. That is why it would be a good initiative by the Federal Government, Mr Wittmann, if that were to happen in Austria in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9570	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is also supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9594	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If a war is waged with such brutality in the neighbourhood of Austria, then, in fact, one should accept, this is a special situation for us here in the National Council, a particular situation which should be manifested in the fact that a single line in foreign policy is being carried out by all political groups. [[Abg. Wabl: Yes, but on the ground of the Constitution!]] Just as the two members of the government have shown today, it is really primarily about how to prevent displacements, how to prevent mass murder, in the second place, about what one can do to stop the systematic expulsion that is taking place in Kosovo, and what one can do – thirdly – to help refugees. [[Abg. Wabl: That's right!]] On the last issue, I think, the Austrians have shown us in what direction it must go. They have a large majority – almost every household! – prove that solidarity is now in place. In my view, they have donated so much in an exemplary way that we can all be proud of the fact that Austria has opened its hearts and the wallet and that today there is so much resources that can flow directly into the area concerned. I am proud that the Austrians have acted in this way! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, more is expected from a state than a sense of solidarity. A state such as Austria is expected to organise the reception of refugees. This is necessary now because the camps around Kosovo are overcrowded because many families in Albania who have taken up families from Kosovo are overcrowded. Therefore, refugees must also be taken up in Austria. It is also expected from the Austrian state that the Austrian camp, which has just begun to build, will be operational very quickly. We are also expected, in my opinion rightly, to find clear words with regard to the causer and aggressor Milošević, who cannot be spared, who, as is sometimes shown, must not be attacked with seed gloves for reasons of neutrality, so as not to forgive anything, but on this question there is a need for a clear condemnation: A Milošević must not escape the fact that, as mass murderers, he is still being taken care of by some, ladies and gentlemen! That can't be! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, we are also expected to take part in European decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] I would like to make a critical comment on this: Although the Federal Chancellor clearly supported these decisions in his statement today, I remember exactly how his comments sounded when he returned from Brussels. Today, he has defined it by saying that as a neutral state, we would have stated "consistency" for the military strike. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In April, with the voice of the Austrian Chancellor on behalf of Austria, we decided that the use of the strongest measures, including military action, was necessary and justified. I think you have to stand by it, and I expect an Austrian head of government to expect that what happened on 14 May. It was decided in Brussels on 15 April. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to address some other arguments that have been put forward today. For example, the argument was that Austria was much more likely to pursue an active neutrality policy. – Ladies and gentlemen! That is a contradiction in itself! If one takes neutrality seriously, as it was decided in 1955, that means that one must have the same distance to all parties to conflict. I do not understand how, on the other hand, one should be active in a conciliation process. This is not what neutrality actually means. I recognize the need to communicate, that is not a question, but this has nothing to do with an active neutrality policy. Today, as a member of the European Union, we support the decisions of the EU in the form they have been taken. This is our role to play in this context. I therefore believe that what some have said cannot really be represented in this sense! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to comment on an argument put forward by Mrs Petrovic with vehemence. It has today actually expressed what the peace marchers represented in the peace movement of the 1970s. – Only, ladies and gentlemen, these times are over! We are living today in a completely different world with completely different conflicts. Mrs Petrovic is, I believe, not so blind to see who is actually the aggressor in Serbia. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yes! She's blind on the left eye!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... on two eyes blind!]] I also do not think that it goes beyond all that the European Greens say today in political terms. I am thinking, for example, of the German Foreign Minister Fischer, who is ringing around the truth on this point, or of the EU candidates of the Greens in France, Cohn-Bendit, who clearly says that he does not want him to lose his soul when he sees what Milošević is doing in Kosovo. In this connection, I can still quote someone who, I believe, is superior to any criticism. Hans Magnus Enzensberger, German poets, editors and perhaps also a few moral bodies, said about these peace movements of the 1970s that it is tragic that the peace marchers of the past are today on the side of a mass murderer. – Ladies and gentlemen! I think that says a lot. You should think about it very intensively! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the People's Party are clearly in favour of the decisions taken by the European Council and we therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9737	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Kammerlander. 10 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9767	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! – almost I am, since you are the last to remain on the government bank, seduced to say: We're among ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by my group, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Leave Before I respond to this request – I will do so at the end of my speech – you will first answer some of what has been said and introduced in the course of the current debate. Many have described what has not been done, and have asked whether all the scope has really been exploited, each stage of the negotiation has been used accordingly and adequately to come to a different solution. To do this does not necessarily mean – although it may appear that way at first glance – to be right now and here and to say in retrospect, we would have done that or that at the time, but it is my conviction that politicians are very likely to explore the causes by considering the developments again in retrospect very critically. But we must keep in mind again and again that it is about two things: It is about a ceasefire, and it is about helping refugees, so for those people who have been hurt and are still being done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a question of whether all the scope has really been exploited and every possible means of negotiation, and I must first of all determine how many years we should go back in this regard. We could probably not only go down for years, but even decades. However, I would first like to leave it to go back ten years and look at the years 1989 to 1991 more closely. At that time, from 1989 to 1991, there were serious changes in economic policy in the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The World Bank and the IMF have intervened massively in the economic structure and political decision-making structure of the country and, above all, – and this has already been done with one of the causes – have begun to count massive debt that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia still had from earlier times, and have threatened with it as with the rod in the window. In my opinion, this was the beginning of the increasingly nationalist policy of Milošević, in his view, the only possibility of a political rescue attempt, namely to keep itself in power as the head of state. The consequences are known; I don't want to repeat them here at all. The result was the rejection of Kosovo's autonomy and the Vojvodina, which resulted in an increasing nationalization in the politics of Milošević and thus in the subsequent consequence also of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. It came to decay! We know the situation. There has been a further serious error of the West or of a number of Western states – including Austria with its pioneering role; a serious mistake in my opinion – namely the recognition of the various sub-publics as independent sovereign states, and thus the de facto recognition that Yugoslavia is falling into its various sub-republics, and that is now the case, regardless of the problems that will arise on these sub-republics, not only as we could see afterwards, in Bosnia-Herzegovina, but also in Kosovo. The next mistake has already been mentioned by one of my previous speakers: In 1995, the Dayton Peace Treaty, the de facto recognition – again a de facto recognition – of the sovereignty of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which gave Milošević virtually direct the signal that the solution of the Kosovo conflict would be left to him. In 1998, the military dispute between the police, the military and the UůK in Kosovo broke out. What are the Western Allies doing? – They force Rugova, in obvious ignorance of the political situation on the ground, to go to Belgrade to negotiate. He's going to be ridiculous there. It is no more than a photo date, and de facto is the internal, in the intra-Alban conflict, the initiation of his disarmament and the beginning of the fact that he no longer has the earlier political resonance. Years before, it has been neglected to support Rugova and his nonviolent course. All of this has already been listed today. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It goes on: In October 1998, Holbrooke drove to Milošević. And what does he recognize in conversation with Milošević? – It once again acknowledges the territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Once again, something that Milošević did not believe at all have to be able to do, namely the absolute, unlimited rule over the entire state territory. We need to look at all these areas carefully, because several of my colleagues have claimed from this speaker's desk that everything has been done, it has been tried, but it has not resulted in any results. I cannot now go into Rambouillet because of the short period of my speech, nor can I insist that peace negotiations were started under such a dramatic horizon that it was clear from the outset that there would be no real peace negotiations and no outcome. It is very likely, however, that before we begin to sum up whether there would have been any other way to address the role played by the Americans there and the role that NATO has been given. Unfortunately, we have never received the entire contract from Rambouillet, but interestingly it has – and you will learn this when you read foreign newspapers – also given an Annex to this contract. This is not only about the stationing of NATO forces in Kosovo, which in itself is an unreasonable state for every sovereign state, but also about the fact that these troops would have been granted something like immunity, especially the military observers and, above all, the leaders of this military action. This would have meant that these persons could have moved freely throughout the federal territory. This already shows a particular insensitivity, and that after a situation we have just experienced through a UN mission in Iraq, it has shown that this mission has been misused for espionage activity. This is what the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is about to do. There are a lot of stations that make clear what has been missed and what has not been done. And in my opinion, it is not at all acceptable to say here at the speaker's desk that there would have been no other way there would be no other possibility than that of NATO bombardments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has also been mentioned – and I have to strip this again – that these bombardments do not achieve their purpose, that they have not been able to protect human lives. It has brought this a tremendous dynamic into the persecutions, into the expulsions, into the murders, so that it is almost impossible to intervene somehow, so that it seems almost hopeless to be able to hold further ceasefire negotiations. I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that I warn you to speak here of Milošević as a mass murderer from the speaker's pulpit, because who are you going to be with, with whom will the international community hold negotiations sometime? What alternative do you have in Serbia? What alternative do you have in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia? Of course it will be Milošević! They only carry out the policy that has been made over years: Milošević once to fill the sugar bread, as Holbrooke did again and again, and then to bring out the whip. You're now defying him in a way that you can't take anything back after that when you sit at the negotiating table. It is undisputed: There is a criminal policy, an insane policy, but it is undisputed – if you look at the political situation in this country – that Milošević is unfortunately the statesman with whom the states of Europe will sit at the negotiating table afterwards when it comes to any ceasefire agreements. And this is still the only goal that all our debates should have: There must be a ceasefire, there is no other alternative. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It has already been carried out – and I would like to finish by saying that everything else has led to a dynamic that can no longer be braked. There may be a fire on the surface if we do not intervene now. The only – and this should also be said here – who have benefited from this up to now are the arms industry and the arms trade. That should be thoughtful if we are to join such a policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we are also proposing. Representative of a neutral state – that is to say, Mr Spindelegger – should not go to NATO meetings and party with them! We should not agree to such agreements that the EU concludes or that any statesmen conclude, but we should use every opportunity to come to a ceasefire.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9899	The motion for a resolution on war in Yugoslavia, tabled by the honourable Member, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e9923	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The German Bundestag also held a debate on the Kosovo drama last week, and those who followed this debate could see that it was a matter of fact and of something like a national consensus. Both the government parties and the CSU/CDU opposition and the Free Democrats spoke with a tongue. An unfortunate exception was the PDS, who believed that she had to cook her own political soup, and almost impelled me with suspicion that Mrs Petrovic here in Parliament must take over the role of Gregor Gysi. That's how it happened to you when you followed their statements here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is not the opinion of the Greens, however, is to be seen in the speech of the Greens spokesperson, Van der Bellen, whom I would like to pay tribute to. He has not only dealt with the situation that prevails at the moment, but also with what comes after that. Mr. Van der Bellen! No one knows what's going on after that. One cannot plan the future without taking note of the present, and one cannot understand the present in Kosovo if one does not know the past or ignore the past. One who knows the past, a Balkan expert, was next to our Foreign Minister Dr. Alois Mock of SVP member Dr. Hans Benedict. It has produced a shocking report entitled "The disgraced Antlitz" for the Trentino-South Tyrol region, together with the UN, together with the OSCE, together with the European Commission. The subtitles were: About the operations in Bosnia: Genocide, expulsion terrorism, violations of individual and collective human rights in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and other areas and states of the former Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen! The reports we know about the years 1992, 1993, 1994 and 1995 from Bosnia-Herzegovina still provide us with the shocking proof of truth for the atrocities, the crimes, the deportations and rapes, the "ethnic cleansings" and the genocide in Kosovo in 1998/99. Kosovo is a logical continuation of the drama Bosnia – with even more brutal methods with even more sophisticated, more diabolic and not to be surpassed. Names that were in the headlines at that time and have made sad history – Milošević, Sešelj, Arkan and so on – also play in Kosovo today the role they played in Bosnia. What these men, their snipers and their criminals, are capable of, I would now like to quote this on the basis of a UN report. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mrs Kammerlander, listen if you understand Mr Milošević! I have considered whether I should read this passage because it describes in such a dramatic way the unimaginable crimes that happened in Bosnia-Herzegovina at that time, and because we can conclude that the same happens in a stronger form in Kosovo. In June 1994, a UN expert commission came up with the shocking study, according to the "STERN"... [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What happened to NATO? What has NATO directed against these people?]] Look, Mrs Petrovic! NATO at the time brought peace to Bosnia and allowed the criminal attacks of the Serbs to cease. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you read in history, you will notice that it was only the NATO attacks that stopped the attack at that time. What happened in many of these Serbian camps reminds not only of Dante's hell version, but of Hitler's and Stalin's extermination camps fatally. So the UN expert committee. Prisoner Muslims – and now you listen! – and Croats were beaten to death with iron rods. [[Issuances of the Abg. Dr Petrovic]] With screwdrivers, their eyes were turned out, their noses, ears and genitals were cut off, they were placed under tanks and rode off by them. Prisoners were forced to bite others' testicles, they were drowned with motor oil. Some of the heads were cut off with motor saws or the heads were cut off with knives, the fingers were hacked down to three, according to the sign of the Serbian greeting. A young Muslim was beaten to the cross, ten and twelve-year-old girls were raped for days and by dozens of Chetniks. Children were thrown alive in kilns. Thousands, especially Muslim women were put in forced brothels. All this leads to the conclusion that both the mass rapes of young women and the systematic liquidation of young men are to be seen as the objective of a well thought out and carried out genocide plan of Serbian politics in Bosnia. – As far as the UN Commission report is concerned. Why should it be different in Kosovo than in Bosnia at the time? [[==References====External links== Dr. Petrovic.]] I don't understand your attitude at all. They heard that there was nothing to do with negotiations. Milošević probably only understands one language, that is the language of violence. And you raise your understanding of this criminal regime, instead of joining your German Greens, Joschka Fischer, who shows a great attitude and defends and interprets NATO attacks, who speaks of a "slaughterhouse", Petrovic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The responsibility and attitude are different when you bear the responsibility. From the bank, without having to answer, it is easy to argue. Your colleagues in Germany, the Greens, prove to you how you feel when you are responsible. Take an example of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm saying that, although I don't otherwise highlight the greens. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Let's not make the mistake of using the refugee drama to hit political change by saying: Yeah, up with it, or: Leave the bottom and then go to the home! No man likes to leave his house. No human goes on voluntarily. No refugee is happy when the Serbs light his house behind him. No one says: Finally, I can leave this Kosovo, but it is all personal and tragic fates. If you look into the eyes of the displaced, raped and injured, you'll see all of this. There is no understanding of any possibilities that have been shown here by the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has the task of helping humanitarianly. That is what we are doing, and with a wealth of humanitarian and financial resources, we can help the poorest of the poor in Albania, in Macedonia, but also in Montenegro. That's what we do. We do our best within the scope of our possibilities, and I would like to repeat: The Austrian people, the citizens of Austria, are to be thanked and respected for this attitude, which is different from the attitude: Foreigners out! and: Refugees back! In this sense, I should like to continue to support the poorest of the poor, and I should also like to call on the government to do everything possible to help these poor people, and also to use diplomatic means as intermediaries in this conflict.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10008	Mrs Kammerlander spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the time of speech and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10032	Mr President. My previous speaker claimed that I had made an understanding of Milošević's policy. - That's not right! I have, rather, expressly pointed out in my speech that this criminal policy must be strongly condemned, and I have only pointed out the causes and developments which led to this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10068	The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10089	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Grossruck has spoken here very emotion-charged, I would like to deviate somewhat from my concept and bring it down to the carpet. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] First: Mr Commissioner, if the satisfaction in Bosnia and Herzegovina had been so successful – but it was not – then today we would not have 70 000 Bosnians in Austria, but they could return to their peaceful homeland. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It will take some time, and it is even questionable whether this country will survive as such. Secondly, I have talked to many, including Americans, about this problem, about the atrocities you have addressed. Where does that come from?, they asked. I told them: The people who commit these atrocities today do nothing but their war heroes from the end years and days of World War II. These war heroes were later politicians who were received great by them and to whom their statesmen shook their hands. They were the heroes of the history books. And they do nothing but the heroes of their history books today. That is why I must warn against negotiating with Mr Milošević. You can't negotiate with this person! European foreign policy has completely failed in this area. There have also been serious mistakes – that is not a question at all – at NATO. There's no time to talk about this. They are partly due to the fact that professionals have completely passed away. But talking about it now is not a time. It is now about considering how to end the murder as quickly as possible. We are in a great dilemma – that is true: On the one hand, the normal Central European does not tend to use violence to a large extent, and is startled by the bombings, on the other hand, raises the question for all: What else should we do, because the killing and the expulsion of people do not seem to be a solution either. In any case, the chancellor has found a way too easy for himself and the SPÖ: The use of the strictest measures necessary and justified was decided in Berlin. With us he only speaks in the Austrian version of: All states have shown understanding! – If the most stringent measures are necessary and justified, you have to ask Mr Chancellor or his permanent representative, who is sitting here on the Government Bank: Where are the Austrian support for this, for example, when a flight ban is granted? He speaks of an active neutrality policy as a substitute. When he was asked yesterday at the press conference how to help the Bosnians in the forests with this active neutrality policy, he replied quite unwieldy and said nothing more or less. He didn't say anything because he didn't know how to do it, because that's an empty phrase, just sound and smoke. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By offering conference rooms in Austria, there is no neutrality policy. Come to Mr Milošević I'm sure you won't continue with that. It would also not be enough to remove Mr Milošević. To believe that is also a mistake, because we have had Serbian opposition politicians here, and they have said quite clearly to my question that none of them would be willing to give up Kosovo or only give it back the statute from before 1983. This is an opinion of the Serbian people, and whoever agrees that he only has to wage war there against Milošević will beautify the fact. It must be fought against Serbia, and the problem will not be solved if you remove Milošević, but only when the Serbs are forced to do so, and it will only be possible to drive Mr. Milošević out of Belgrade with the "wet squat". There will be no solution before. It all sounds hard, but these are the realities, and it is not sound and smoke, what is said here, ladies and gentlemen. What I would like to address is the impact of the conflict on Europe. In Germany, in Italy, the governments are moving, and there is no excessive unity with us. The moment of truth has also come to us. How do you keep it with neutrality?, is once again the question of conscience in the coalition. But in the Kosovo conflict you can't be neutral, says the vice chancellor. The chancellor, however, seems to be different when it comes to the nail sample. The clubman of the ÖVP once again puts neutrality into the tabernacle and creates the piece of art to be added in the sun lounger. If it were possible, it would have to be said that the ÖVP has made itself really ridiculous with your statement, Mr Khol. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The SPÖ wants the square of the circle: Their clubman announces with an excitement that all neutrality obligations are met on strokes and additions while NATO aircraft are flying over Austria. Only SFOR does not apply. But has Mr Kostelka not noticed that since the beginning of the war there the flights for SFOR have multiplied? He'd just have to ask back at the Austro-Control, then he'd know. The chancellor – in his preparatory visit to NATO’s anniversary – should also have forgotten that Austrian soldiers are being subject to NATO in Albania at the same time. So what about keeping to the point? Mr Cap has found in the main committee that I have pointed out this legal problem that in such situations the right cannot be taken too precisely. Perhaps, my colleague, but your chancellor is talking about "on the spot and on-the-spot." What about international law? – One of the international obligations would be to intern soldiers of warring states. Will you put the American officers in stock in Austria? Preparations are already being made for camps and bearing orders are translated as you hear. It is not about participating in this war, it is not even – and we are talking and thinking here first of Austria – about the alliance membership. But it is very likely that the Austrian population will not continue to prefer fairy tales, also about the location down there. For this the Albania war is a catalyst. It is not a question of noticing or silence on the question of neutrality, which the chancellor again addresses in this context, but of an open and honest debate about all the advantages and disadvantages that an alliance membership, especially in such a concrete situation, could bring to Austria, for us. Then, not the left-wing equipment in the SPÖ and the KP nostalgics, who unfortunately also exist in the greens – although many arguments brought by some greens are quite considerate – should have the saying here, but should decide the thin Austrians. Their decision would have to be respected. That is the attitude we have in this question.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10185	The next speaker is Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10206	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! That was the presentation of the new speaker of the FPÖ. It has not really improved the FPÖ with that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Damage! That's the end of his career!]] If – and I have only 4 minutes available – the debate has been closely followed – and I have done so, then one gets the impression that some people here still want to believe that NATO beatings, NATO air attacks, are responsible for the displacements that are taking place in Kosovo. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The next time he's gone!]] [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] This is clearly not the case, because, and most of the people here are aware of that, during the negotiations in Rambouillet, five days before the conclusion of these negotiations, there have been very massive displacements in Kosovo, that at the beginning of NATO air strikes over 300,000 Kosovars had already been sold. In particular, I would ask the coalition partner to take note of this in this form and not to give the impression that NATO would be responsible for these displacements. In fact, one must be glad about it – my colleague, Mr Großruck, has done this very detailedly – that there is a security system, a security community like NATO, which is trying to stop and put an end to a dictator who, in criminal manner, orders mass ousting, mass rapes, mass shootings. German Chancellor Klima has said literally today in his statement: "Mortal, deportation and deportation must never be accepted as a means of politics!" – This is a statement that can be underlined by a hundred percent and that ultimately also explains why there are these NATO hits. A few minutes later, however, Klubobmann Kostelka said that we should be neutral to any war. I therefore ask the coalition partner what his position is. What is the SPÖ's position? Is the position that the Federal Chancellor represented at the European Council or today in this declaration when he said: Yes, these NATO beatings were and are necessary?, or is the position of the SPÖ that of the clubman Kostelka, of whom we know he is not exactly a federal army friend, who thinks these NATO beatings are not justified? I would ask you for your next speaker to give us information on this issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in this dilemma is the SPÖ that she says on the one hand that she would like to retain neutrality, but on the other hand she must realize that one cannot be neutral between arson and fire brigade. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since you are so serious about this question, you do not want to discuss it for five years, which is once again a very peculiar procedure. It is impossible to be completely independent of what is happening around you, what is happening around one in the world, a five-year ban on discussion! It is easy to do, and that is not to support security policy either.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10298	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10320	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Laku noň!]] Mr Klubobmann Khol, for “laku noň” – “good night” – it is still too early, because, although the debate has lasted for a long time, some things have not yet been discussed or, given the importance it would have, not intensively enough. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: When I see you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Visoki Dom!" You forgot!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Some of the opposition speakers, but also speakers of the government groups, have today repeatedly pointed out that the services provided by Austria – the speakers of the government parties have referred this to the Federal Government and to the Austrian population in particular – and I do not wish to dissociate or criticize it – in relation to refugee aid, both on the ground, as it is so beautiful – it should actually be called "on the spot" or "on the spot" – as well as those of the Austrians who are willing to donate concerning the Austrian women. [[Abg. Böhacker: On the spot!]] In view of the enormous sums that have been raised in the context of "Neighbar in Emergency" and of which I have also heard on television, I am also impressed. Like almost every thing, it also has this two sides. If I allow revue to happen, what you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, have said here in the National Council in your capacity as representatives of the people who represent you most of the population, that is, two-thirds of the Austrian population, I cannot defend one of these from a slightly different impression. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr von der FPÖ! I am not talking about your party, because it has not at all said a constructive sentence on the subject of refugees, but it only means that a good refugee is the one who remains where he is and does not flee. This is about the attitude of the FPÖ. But that doesn't bother me, because this is a position that is certainly not majority in Austria. On the other hand, it could become a majority – but I am not pleased, but I have the suspicion – of what the government groups are saying, because even well-known top politicians transport this message without directly expressing it, namely the message to be careful not to get too many Kosovo Albanians who are refugees to Austria. There was no speaker today who would not have said in his speech that what is happening in Kosovo is genocide. All here in the room is clear or it seems clear that genocide is happening, but no one from the speakers of the government parties has come to the idea that, in accordance with the fact that bombings are legitimate in their eyes, because genocide is happening, those people who flee from this genocide have the right to get political asylum in Austria. Each of them is subject to collective persecution and, consequently, under the Austrian Asylum Act and the Geneva Convention on Refugees, would have the right to receive asylum. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The endeavours of Austrian domestic policy – and now I come to the subject of tomorrow's main committee – to counter this, and also in the legislative framework, are enormous. Tomorrow at 8.15 a.m., we will hopefully have the opportunity to discuss with the Minister of the Interior about how he will imagine the right of residence for refugees from Kosovo in Austria. He imagines that only those in Austria will receive protection from persecution, that is, refuge, which are among those chosen for the transports, and that, to date, as far as I know, two planes have been full – perhaps one has landed again today – in other words, a maximum of 300 to 400 people when the planes were full. - That's the one group. We don't know how large this number will be. If Austria continues to work at the same pace as it has been in the last few days or ever since the foreign exchange was issued, it will take months to defend this small modest quota, which you have been so pleased with today, or fill up the announced number of 5 000. Other refugees, ladies and gentlemen, have no chance at all of obtaining residence in Austria unless they have close relatives in Austria. If someone here – even in terms of public opinion – gets the impression that Austria would have shown a generous, generous attitude – in order to speak with your words, genocide in relation to refugees – and I am speaking only once to the purely legal level – then he is extremely mistaken: On the one hand, only those who currently choose the Austrian authorities in Macedonia may come and, on the other, those whose relatives pay. If that corresponds to what you imagine as a reaction to genocide, then I must say that I do not understand it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A group has been addressed by colleagues Kier in his speech and also by colleagues from the Green Group, those who make an active contribution to their personal attitude in this war struggle, namely, in that they want to escape the war – and this applies to both the fighters on the Albanian side and those who are in use on the Serbian-Yugoslav side – because they do not want to do war service because they do not want to be used in the war machinery unless they are deserters. I am now talking about young citizens, male citizens of Yugoslavia, who are refugees. What happens to them? – I have not yet heard a serious or at all a statement by an Austrian politician regarding this group of persons, but it is also part of this complex event that is happening today. If we are talking about genocide, it is only legitimate to think of this group as well. That is why we have prepared another motion for a resolution to support what has already been mentioned today. I'd like him to read: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a group of people who would now be completely indifferent in any relationship. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now also a word on the accusations that have come before, especially in the violent statements by colleagues Grossruck from Grieskirchen. A few minutes or half an hour earlier, President Schwarzböck appealed to the opposition in a sunk tone, but not to exaggerate, but not to scream, not to be ecstatic, because this was not necessary in view of the disaster that is now taking place. [[Abg. Dkfm. Mühlbachler: He didn't! He didn't scream!]] But then Col. Großruck came to the speaker's desk, turned to the address of the Greens – and I felt just as addressed as Madeleine Petrovic or Alexander Van der Bellen – and provided us with an understanding of genocide! – Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if these are the sounds with which Austrian politicians – insignificantly well-notified, as the mayor of Grieskirchen, but at least Members to the National Council! – the Austrian people in their often internal disintegration want to be exemplary at their side, then I have to say no. [[Abg. Großruck: I didn't say that!]] I want They only point out that the Austrian population also suffers from the fact that this conflict between Albanians and Serbs, although not active and physically but probably in our minds, is also present in our territory, and it is legitimate that this is also expressed. It is our job to be peaceable, moderate and to try to restrict resentments, prejudices, if not even hatreds, and not to drive the throat even further. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say the following: It speaks for itself what Mr Großruck meant here, because it is a double moral that is applied here. I am saying this as one of that group, which in 1991, when it came to recognition of Croatia's sovereignty, was, Mr. Mock, the then minister, very well aware of this, and which has been massively committed to it and in parallel has condemned what has happened in the Krajina. I have never heard this from the mouth of an ÖVP member so far, and there is the double morale! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's my problem with bombs on Subotica! Subotica, ladies and gentlemen – perhaps some of you have already been there – represents what can be regarded as an example of living together in Europe: There is a Hungarian mayor in a Yugoslav city. And there are bombs! There it is probably justified to say: Let's stop the bombardments to give a break to those who are inconspicuous! That was shown in the past. We must now also express from our side – I mean with "our side" now "belonging to the West" – that war is never a means by which one can come to solutions, and that bombs have never solved anything in the world, but have always brought more harm. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mrs Petrovic asked for this in 1992!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Joschka Fischer is different!]] That is what needs to be mentioned here today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10490	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Magistrate. Stoisits concerning aid to refugees, in particular desertors, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is under negotiation. I call Mr Dkfm. Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10514	High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to try to satisfy the information needs of Mrs Stoisits as regards the freedom of speech on refugee issues, while at the same time filling up their obvious knowledge gaps. I am also referring to the two government groups in these my remarks, because they have very similar ideas in one question, in a very basic trend. I am starting by reminding you, Mrs Stoisits, that there are around two million Kosovo Albanians in Kosovo – that is exactly what we do not know, because the census is not working as well as we are used to. Of these, about one million are already on the run or are displaced. The target of the Milošević regime is an Albanian pure Kosovo. I consciously use this matching word “Albaner-pure”. Why do I tell you this, ladies and gentlemen? – Because I want to show you how shallow and how wrong your policy is when you want to bring 5,000 refugees to Austria, on the basis of the scale that it is about – there are more than two million who are to be driven out. That's less than 2.5 promille. If you calculate this, then the following comes out: Then, in order to solve the problem in such a way, we should be able to accept that all the States that are grouped in the United Nations more than double that number of refugees than Austria is currently planning to take up. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government, of the two government groups and of the Greens! But you do not find anyone within the EU who does such seething and therefore absurd if I now look away from Germany. But first of all, the Greens are sitting there in the government, second, there are the Social Democrats on the row – this explains many things – and thirdly, the Germans from historical complexes have always – or do not like – always played the burden of Europe. But otherwise you will find no one who does or plans such a sighting and crazy thing. On the contrary: Everyone resists to include refugees in similar sizes with hands and feet. I cannot assume that all of this is only out of xenophobia, but they do – I guess – because it would be wrong for Kosovo Albanians to divide across Europe or possibly to spread across the world. First of all, they would be deprived of their home law, their home country, and second – that is just as important – Mr. Milošević would have achieved his goal of ‘albaner-clean’ Kosovo if we shared and received all the displaced. Mrs Stoisits and all those who doubt the fairness of the liberals on this issue. For this reason, it can only be said that Austrian aid must concentrate on aid on the ground. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Anything else, ladies and gentlemen, is by the way – the third – only hidden and hidden immigration policy! The following must also be clear to us – and I hope you are clear as well: It will only return a very small part of these 5,000 refugees, who now intend to bring you to the country. We must first see what home country this will be, whether there will be one at all, and we have also experienced this in a similarly bad or perhaps not so bad case on the question of the Bosnia-Herzegovina refugees. We have 70 000 in the country after all. So don't give up an illusion that a substantial part of this quota you are getting back into will return to its home country. Why you do this, you need to know; I always wonder. They do it only because you can calm down and satisfy certain self-proclaimed "good people" – those self-proclaimed "good people" who believe that they have leased the cause of humanity, democracy and human rights. They want to calm down and calm down with this quota of 5,000. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would just like to say one more thing in this context, because I used the word "self-named good people": These "self-named beaut men" have many peculiar sympathys. One of these "Obergut men" is Mr. Peter Handke. If Mr. Peter Handke expresses his sympathy by travelling to Mr. Milošević in Belgrade, if he leaves himself there at the beginning of April from sympathy to the Milošević regime or also to the Serbian people – he now turns it a bit – to the Serbian knight, then I can ultimately do so, and that is it for me, ladies and gentlemen! It doesn't matter to me if left ropes hoist Mr. Peter Handke on Austria's first state stage, as Mr. Peymann does and did, and it doesn't matter to me, ladies and gentlemen, when a member of these left ropes asks someone like Mr. Peter Handke to read to Parliament – to readings such as the one from his text "Justice for Serbia" – and thus makes him courteous and rolling out the red carpet. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For such ladies and gentlemen, who are condolences with those ladies and gentlemen who now act so down there, we have no understanding, and therefore not for you, Mr President Fischer.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10592	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10613	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! As a previous speaker, I would like to refer once again to what the German Chancellor's climate, but also to what his colleague on the government bank, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, said. Both have emphasized today that expulsion, murder and killing can never and must never be the means of politics. Of course, we all join this in the House. But what he did not say or both gentlemen did not say is what consequences should be attached to it when something like this happens or when something like that happened. History teaches us that deportation, murder and killing have always been the means of politics. One can say, of course, that many things have turned to the better – that is true already here and there – but one must also say that one has to learn from history in so far as we have learned that the means of politics, namely deportation, murder and death, which we all reject, have always and almost everywhere paid off. That is what it is, in fact, permanent, always and always to condemn, whatever we liberals are for. It is all the more remarkable – and we are very pleased that there has been a resolution in the European Parliament recently, namely last week, which was adopted by decision, according to which deportation, murder and killing have been the means of politics, namely in the former Czechoslovakia. I mean the Beneš decrees. We only need to look south of Austria: The AVNOJ provisions are also still part of legal systems. That's not what we're going to do. It was all the more remarkable that the Czech Government was finally called upon in a resolution to repeal existing laws and decrees from 1945 and 1946 in so far as they relate to the expulsion of individual groups in the former Czechoslovakia, even before the accession of that country to the European Union. It was a remarkable resolution, and we have heard it today too, and it has been stressed over and over again: The closeness of the international community is needed. If the European Union adopts such a resolution, then we, as Austrians, should also show closeness on this point. The need for this is shown by a 19th - century declaration. On April 1, a human being who has already done a lot of good, namely President Václav Havel, who lets us know about the media, is skeptical about this resolution by the European Parliament, according to which the Beneš decrees still valid in the Czech Republic are to be declared invalid. He stressed – this is a new quality of this President – that this arrangement by then Czechoslovak President Edvard Beneš from 1945 and 1946 on the expulsion and expropriation of the Sudeten Germans was an inseparable part of the Czech legal order. What are the signals of this president and this country? – That exorcism is historically paying off, isn’t it?- Oh, my God! I believe that, in the international conclusion, we should finally decide here in the House, as we have repeatedly called for, but also in the light of the resolution in the European Parliament, on a motion for a resolution, possibly with the votes of all political groups, in order to make it clear to the succeeding states of the countries of the distributor, that, whatever they may be called, eviction, genocide, ethnic cleansing will never pay off, that an aggressor must always expect international closure to intervene. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that a follow-up must be linked to this, and we are invited to act, even if resolutions of the European Parliament are often seen by the candidate countries as a toothless instrument. In this sense, I can only agree with the opinion of CSU-Europa member Bernd Posselt, who was elected on 16 May. As I have said, I am right in saying – it was written to you, Mr Schieder, in the main book, how he qualified the Czech Republic's accession, while maintaining this right of injustice: If injustice decrees are dragged into a legal community, this is like bringing computer viruses into a computer system. That threatens the whole system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, before joining the EU, we must eliminate illegal decrees, which must be eliminated. There is nothing to add to this, and I believe that it is high time to send a signal to the aggressors in the present and in the future that the international conclusion is working.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10695	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10720	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am here in a hall where obviously everyone has the right mind: They want to represent human rights; they want to protect refugees; they want to stop killing; they want all people to live in peace, they don't have to starve and they're fine; if injustice happens somewhere on this earth, then they're the first to raise their voices. Since our country – you can say unfortunately or fortunately – has become a small country, we often worry about our Europe and our beautiful earth. Then we sometimes make the mistake and are subject to the temptation to make big politics, and believe we knew how to order the world and which are the right means. Ladies and gentlemen! What can I say about this if Mr Vice-Chancellor thinks that we must not look away if in Kosovo we are to be ousted, murdered and raped, that we must not look away when "ethnic cleansings" happen?- Oh, my God! What can I say if Mr Amon thinks that murder should never be accepted as a political means?- Oh, my God! – Of course I can only say: Yes! Every green and every politician and every politician can only say yes. But what is the answer, ladies and gentlemen? What is responsible action out of a mind, of which we all believe it is the right thing – you, I, all within the NATO crisis council. Of course, Mr Joschka Fischer, who has long waited to have a government office and to become a foreign minister, has the right attitude and knows that he never wants to see what his own history is like as a German. Ladies and gentlemen! But what is the answer? Has the answer been in Kosovo that the international community has sent UN soldiers to set up protection zones to present themselves heroically to the inhabitants and to ward off those murderers and rapists you are talking about here? Is that the answer? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No, because China has put in a veto!]] No, because China has put in a veto, so the NATO Council has decided: We bow to the veto of China, so we have to unload in Belgrade and in Niš bombs. Is that the answer, Mr. Kukacka? Is this the plea that the thinker of the mind who believes that they are in the right mind, are Catholics like Mr. Khol, like Mr. Amon, like Mr. Kukacka, who love enemies as the Bible says? – But sometimes enemies are just such enemies that we have to open our bombing arsenals, release our B 52-bombers and discharge them there. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I ask you: What function do these bombs have? Are those bombs to raise the Serbs? Are the bombs of solidarity? Are the bombs of friendship? Are the bombs of peace? – Today, a message reaches us that material enriched with uranium is also used. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to ask yourself what your responsibility is. I'll take your mind off you. Mr. Kukacka! I take your mind from you that you also feel that crimes have to be committed all over the world. But is that true what Mr Schüssel here means when he says we should not look away? Who, then, sees the suffering in Kurdistan, where the tens of thousands of a people have been murdered, where entire villages have been smoked, a million people have fled? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is no reason to look away from Kosovo!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Who is looking at Africa, who is looking at East Timor, who is looking at Laos, who is looking at Colombia, who is looking everywhere, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the fact that a minister or a minister in an attack of social democratic or humanitarian attitude – an ÖVPler can also be – increases development aid? [[Congratulation with the Greens]] – Then immediately the liberal camp comes and says: We have to get the minimum pensioners with that and the amount! Who sees hundreds of thousands starved in this world, Lord Scheibner, who sees it there? What is your answer as a military expert? [[Abg. Scheibner: What does this have to do with the state defense?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there had been a military logic in the Balkans – I am not a militarist, but if there had been a military logic – then UN soldiers – if China and Russia were already being ignored – would have to be used, defend the protection zones and not bomb them! Mr. Kukacka! That's the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who is responsible for the victims?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Joschka Fischer – I think this is a personal, tragic story of a green person who has my full sympathy – is obviously subject to the circumstances of a German foreign minister. I personally regret that. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP, including Abg. Dr. Khol: What about Cohn-Bendit? That's not a foreign minister? What about Cohn-Bendit]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! I quote an unsuspecting witness, he's been out of business a little longer: Bombing, bombarding – that's all you know! – This is a quote from Mr Johnson, President of the United States after the Americans have meant for years that they must defend freedom in Southeast Asia after they have meant that communist rule must be forced into their knees at all costs. The whole country has been covered with bombs, there have been more bombs than in the Second World War. Then the president "rules" his military "to" and says that this is the only thing they can do. He wants solutions, he continues to say, asking where they are. Ladies and gentlemen! How far do you want to go with the bombardments and your understanding of this question? – The bridges are bombarded, the hydropower plants are bombarded, the heating power plants are bombarded, factories are bombarded, streets are bombarded, railways are bombarded, schools have already been hit. Now I ask you: How far do you want to go so that you have achieved your goal in the sense of humanity, in the sense of peace and in the sense of the freedom of the Western world? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today Vice-chancian bowl said that the Serbs were not the evil ones, no, it was Milošević. – Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the Freeman:Alternative!]] But what is the consequence of that? –Do the bombs meet Mr. Milošević or the Serbs? Meeting NATO operations Mr Milošević or the institutions that have been set up in decades by a people who have had all the troubles, after the destruction of the Second World War, are again half-economic? The western united NATO has already done damage to the extent of 1,500 billion schilling. What has been achieved with this? Has that objective been achieved, ladies and gentlemen, which you support, which Joschka Fischer also supports and which he thinks is the only answer to be given? Ladies and gentlemen! If we have no other solution than to throw bombs, then your own sentence applies, which you have said again and again from this speaker's mouth: Bombs must never be accepted as a political means! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Did that go against the Nazis too?]] I do not want to talk now about the appropriateness of the beginning of the conflict in the Second World War. I also tell you that, although I myself am not a pacifist, my heart at this hour belongs to the pacifists. Because I think their answer is much more human than what you call in your helplessness. [[Further call of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are doing here, Mr Kukacka, is neither a solution nor a de-escaling nor anything else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing: I already know that it is difficult for the Social Democrats and the Christian politicians within the EIA to take a more differentiated position. But you should note that those positions that the Greens and others who see the situation somewhat more critical and differentiated represent, including organizations such as – Mr. Khol, perhaps you perceive – Pax Christi, Catholic Youth, Evangelic Youth, Catholic Action, SP Women, ÖH-Uni Vienna, "Asyl in Emergency" and others take, ladies and gentlemen! All of these people support this very differentiated attitude. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Mr. Jung! I am really happy at such moments in such a discussion about the following: Fortunately, we cannot do world policy, but we can offer what is in excess in our country, namely people who know the Balkans very well, who are very successful in mediation positions. We can offer our federal army for aid and for charitable purposes. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you want to do!]] We can continue to motivate our people to do what Austria has done best in recent years. Let us bring this to a championship on the ground of the constitution of Austria, and let us give up on this great-powered - I would almost say - war-driver! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e10890	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Heide Schmidt and Comrades on the submission of an option report from the Federal Government on the future security policy of Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mrs Heide Schmidt's motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades on ceasefire and refugee aid. I should also like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Dr Volker Kier and colleagues on the reception of refugees from Kosovo. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with Mr Kier's request for a sign. – The application does not find the majority. He's rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé and colleagues on assistance for Kosovo's displaced persons in the region or in neighbouring neighbouring countries. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. – The request is rejected by a majority. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Martina Gredler and colleagues on the confiscation of accounts and assets of Yugoslav President Slobodan Milošević. I also ask for a sign in the case of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote next on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Khol and colleagues on war in the Balkans. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. (E 170.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and colleagues on war in Yugoslavia. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to Petrovic's request for a sign. – The request is rejected by a majority. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits, Dr Petrovic and colleagues on aid for refugees, in particular deserters of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In case of consent, I asked for a sign. . I note that the request was largely rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler and colleagues on EU accession conditions for the Czech Republic and Slovenia. In case of consent, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. It's the first time we've ever seen it. Agenda item. 2. Point Report by the Committee on Industry on the motion for a resolution (Doc. the draft of the experts (III-54 of the supplements) for a technology policy concept of the Federal Government in 1996, presented by the Federal Minister for Science, Transport and Arts and by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs; and motion for a resolution 202/A (E) by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn and Comrades concerning the creation of an Industrial Location Insurance Act (1710 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Industry on the Government template (1671 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the 1982 Research Funding Act (1711 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11084	We come to points 2 and 3 of today's agenda. The debate on these two points is being held together. I do not have a desire for oral reporting. That is what we are going to enter into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11114	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present report on the concept of the Federal Government's technology policy and the resolution presented for the implementation of this concept, which must already be said, is a reflection of economic policy that is without direction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not the Federal Government has presented a technology policy approach, but with a leaner resolution, the implementation of an expert draft or only of parts of this draft is required by the government. However, there is no mention in the resolution of the important strategic approaches in the draft of experts, because it was not even possible to achieve the pooling of technology policy proposed by the experts in a single office. This failed on the red-black proporz system! This has failed because none of the coalition partners were willing to accept shifts of competence, and it has failed because the government has never considered technology policy to be the essential pillar of Austrian economic policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The result is not surprising. Austria has only an 8.2 percent share of high-tech goods in its exports. The OECD has more than double, i.e. 17.5 percent, the US even has 34 percent. The marketing culture is extremely underdeveloped in Austria. This demonstrates the widespread lack of Austrian marks on the world market. At the company's start-ups, our country only ranks 45. Job. Competitiveness has not really improved despite much praised EU accession. At any rate, we only hear of acquisitions by foreign companies and not vice versa. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not enough, Mr Nußbaumer.]] Mrs. Tichy-Schreder! Federal Minister! Wouldn't it have been nice if Telekom Austria had participated in the Telecom Italia and not vice versa? We would then not have to change this strategic partner again, since now Deutsche Telekom will take over it. Mrs Tichy-Schreder, you have to think about that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Mr. Nußbaumer, since when are you for the state economy?]] We are also degenerated to the average country in education and research. I am therefore saying this because the two Ministers, one like Farnleitner, have used their time in the Committee's statements to explain that the research rate now is 1.56 percent, if one is expected to be actually two tenths higher, instead of making it clear how and, above all, by what means the 2.5 percent research quota can be achieved by 2005. The report before us does not give any information on this, and that is totally unsatisfactory. In the paper Schmidt/Hochleitner, the sum of 62 billion schilling is called for the increase in the research rate from 1.69 to 2 percent. I would ask you, Mr President, to explain today at least what financial resources are needed to implement this resolution and how it should be implemented. Of course, I know you will not answer that, and you probably cannot do so in this uncertain content of the resolution. I have only two examples which show how little knowledge the people acting have brought into this report. My example 1: Minister The objective was to achieve a cluster-oriented technology policy. That's where I'm going to conform to him. The aim of the K-plus programme is to implement it, but only 300 million schilling are planned. – Minister! They themselves admitted in the Committee that this amount would not be sufficient for implementation. My example 2: The resolution speaks of increased participation in EU research programmes. That's the 5th. The EU framework programme would offer the opportunity to do so. In this report, to say that joint ventures by large enterprises and SMEs have advantages is very little, everyone knows that too. But how this cooperation is to be started and developed, this report does not reveal this. Mr. Minister! Summary: Technology policy is too serious to abuse it as a means of reporting policy – a process which is You've been practicing for four years now. The number of headings to each other does not replace the concrete implementation proposals missing in the report. The structural weaknesses as you see them, Mr Minister To one who has shown, find little rainfall. For example, there is no answer to the question: How can increasing project research with performance control increase the efficiency of university research resources? Or: How can industry be more integrated into the economic-oriented university? Or: What measures can be taken to improve the transfer of knowledge between researchers and the economy? The centres of competence are important and good, but they are not sufficient to do so alone. Or: How do you come, Minister? To a project-related research work, if you yourself, as a rule, call the university institutes too small and sleek, but can't do anything about it? The paper gives no answers to all these questions. Even if we recognize that the FFF's continued existence and further development should be guaranteed by the measures envisaged, and if we recognize that the many initiatives of freedom have given rise to some movement in technology policy, first of all there is a lack of a concrete technology concept by the government itself, and second of all, the suspicion that the initiatives announced after the election of a red-black government will not be implemented again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11181	The next speaker is Mr Fritz Vergebnitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11202	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Nußbaumer, I am doing a little hard to deal with your speech, because I do not think you have made it clear what you really mean. You have started to regret the lack of a Federal Government's technology policy approach. At the same time, however, you have commented on a technology policy concept of the Federal Government. Do we have one now, or do we have none? [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: I have taken a position on the report!]] We have spoken on several occasions in the Committee on Technology about this approach. [[Abg. Böhacker: About the paper!]] Second point: They have mentioned that there is actually no positive trend in economic data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] All right, then let us get closer to what you have said in the Committee on Budgets. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Government incense is not our fragrance!]] Mr President, I should like to thank It's gonna be even better. We are already approaching what you have said in the Committee, and we are also so pleased that this concept contains very positive approaches. – Your own words in committee, as far as I can remember. A further statement by a member of your club, namely that of Mr Schöggl, who has already sent the following on the party press service at 12.07 p.m., is particularly invigorating for the discussion: "In the context of today's National Council meeting on Research and Technology Policy, the liberal technology speaker DI Leopold Schöggl commented." If this is not a spelling error, then the speech has already been made at that time. [[Abg. Böhacker: So, Mr President!]] However, I add that this line continues: On the one hand, we are talking about measures already started, in the first paragraph, and on the other hand, in the last paragraph, we are saying that all these are just fake activities. [[Abg. Böhacker: Shame for the speaking time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what is the subject of the debate today is marked by a very long history of development. I do not want to say that this long history of development was actually too long. I think that we could have dealt with this concept much more quickly. The lesson I draw from this process is that permanent work on this subject is more necessary than ever. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] Deputies! Do not come back to me with the problem of your own group. If your honourable Member says that we should not convene a meeting, then do not blame me for not calling a meeting. I think we should stick to a line. What we can also publicly present is that the relevant framework conditions have been created in the system of technology policy, in support and in funding, in particular with regard to innovation, that the international and national, but also the regional dimension of support policy has been addressed, as I think, labour market policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it seems particularly important that if we allow the future activities and the measures already started to happen, there is also the opportunity not only to develop research approaches in the sense of new products or new techniques, but perhaps also to define new fields of activity at the same time. This particularly fits into the debate on the question of vocational education and training. In my opinion, the impact of employment effects of research should also be defined more clearly in the individual projects so that we do not only discuss them afterwards, but also the qualifications requirements and changes in the work organisation as a whole. This research report, which has been presented by the Federal Government and which results in very long and intensive cooperation between various research institutes, but also the discussion in the subcommittee and then in the Committee, addresses concrete measures and sets out examples that are also interesting in terms of cross-sectional matter. I am personally convinced that the paper can have the character of a strategy paper which can be the basis for action as it appears in the resolution or has been addressed in the meantime. The issues raised in the motion for a resolution, Mr Prinzhorn, have also been included in this summary motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: But far too little, much too little!]] One of his points is certainly not included, but this cannot solve the problem in question either. If Mr Prinzhorn, in his request, criticises the too low age of retirement, it must be said that this is not a result of research, but a result of a business policy which I constantly criticise and that is too young for retirement and too old for the labour market. [[Abg. Haigermoser: your government policy!]] The Federal Government, the social partners and your group are concerned about how to achieve greater use of older workers. In the end, however, this is not a question of technology policy, it is a question of company recruitment policy, of ladies and gentlemen. I am personally convinced, because you mentioned the local policy as an example, that we can certainly achieve the objective of increasing the research rate to 2.5 percent of GDP if we continue along this path. I am convinced that the measures put in place by the 2000 tax reform, namely that the research contribution, which has been between 12 and 18 per cent, will be increased uniformly to 25 per cent and, in addition, to new entrants, but also to those who make increased research efforts, to a total of 35 per cent, will be a real step. I expect that this step will, of course, also take particular account of the impact of employment. Finally, I personally would like to ask you to support the implementation of the measures resulting from the research funding report. The report has many topics, and I am thinking about the centres of competence you have referred to. This has not only created jobs in the centres of competence, but also jobs in others. This is the first time we have been able to work together in the next few years. They have addressed the ERP Fund's employment plan. In particular, the regional investment and research projects that exist are being identified. Many other areas mentioned in the report could be mentioned, such as the Research Fund as a whole or the Christian Doppler Society. Ladies and gentlemen! All of these are issues which make it worth not only reading the Federal Government's technological report, but jointly ensuring that the appropriate measures can also be implemented. We agree with this report, but also with this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11332	The next speaker is Mr Volker Kier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11354	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I have already said this in committee, and I would like to repeat this clearly: There is no concept of the Federal Government on technology policy! There is no decisive concept of the Federal Government! There are conceptual approaches, there and there, certainly also some who deserve applause, but what one imagines under a concept of the Federal Government, which could also be voted on here, or at least taken to the attention, or given as a resolution of the Federal Government, does not exist. Nothing can make this more clear than the fact that, at the last hour of the crisis, the government parties tried to fix it at the last committee meeting by introducing a motion for a resolution by Mr Gartlehner, Mr Fekter. This is a request which, after a detailed discussion, was acceptable from the Liberal Group's point of view, but not least because this House today, by adopting this resolution, which contains direction orders to the Federal Government, finds that there is no concept of the Federal Government. As a Member of an opposition party, I can say that this is a pity, but I am also delighted from an opposition point of view, because you can believe that I will tell you everywhere I am asked, at home and abroad, everywhere! I believe that it is not necessarily an hour of parliamentarianism, but after all: When does an official protocol confirm that one is right, namely that there is no government concept? I think that's important. It is only a shame that we could have done this much earlier. If the majority groups of this House had suspected that there would not be a political compromise in the Federal Government until five minutes ago, which is acceptable, then we could have decided on such a motion two or three years ago in the Committee. He would have been equally or similar, and the chairman of the Committee would not have been concerned either. It seems that only the Members of the Government have hoped until the very end that the government might still have a concept. To this end, what Schmidt – I remember the Schmidt/Hochleitner paper – presented as his expert statement at the last committee meeting has put the matter to the fore: He's been talking about a sad story. And this sad story is much older than it can be recognized at first sight. It actually starts in 1987. In 1987, a technology offensive was first promised, then in connection with the partial privatisation of the joint venture. At that time, the Republic sold the special companies to its own joint venture, and it took significant amounts, namely about 6 billion schilling. It was then said: With this money, we're making a technology offensive! And at that time we have put all this into the room, not in detail, but in accordance with the reason, which is finally a motion for a resolution today. That's been full twelve years! So the history of the Federal Government's technology concept is much older than some suspect. [[Abg. Vergestnichtisch: 1994!]] There are different birth dates, which depends on how to do the timing. But in 1987 it was already mentioned for the first time, and for the first time – by the way – the ineffective funds were created, because they said: We do not give money for it, but we will pay interest for a fictional amount, and this money will then be available for the technology. – But that was not quite successful. In other words, Austria continues to spend too little on this area, the industry anyway, in the international comparison at all. The universities are still disproportionately expensive and work too little with the economy, and the Austrian research and development landscape is still fragile. That's the result! That is why the only obstacle to this motion for a resolution is that it contains a list of different elements. But he doesn't have a consistent bracket. The consistent parentheses would have been the answer to the question of competence, because the question of competence is one of the key questions. Only then, if I order the competences so that they are in a hand, in whatever, but in one hand, can technology policy be made from a single source. The second building block, which is of crucial importance, would be an advisory body. The Schmidt/Hochleitner paper reads this as the "Bertungsstelle für Forschung und Technologie", and the competences read in Schmidt/Hochleitner paper as "Büro für Forschung und Technologie". Both are missing; these two elements would have been the closing stones to a building. Now all of this doesn't satisfy very much, if it's better than nothing. But one thing is missing right now, namely a financing concept. The Liberal Group has therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution, which I shall now read at the end of my speech: [[Quoted print version removed]] I mean, if nothing else can be expected from the Federal Government, which we are calling for today with this motion for a resolution, then at least that the responsible Finance Minister, of course in cooperation with the two Members present, will provide us with a rigorous approach on how he intends to provide this highly growing technology support while at the same time keeping in mind budget consolidation. We believe that it is a shack for him until the 20th century. We must do so in May, because everywhere we hear that the general objective of the Federal Government is to do so. That means that there is certainly already this concept, it has not yet been published. We therefore ask for the disclosure of this concept. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11416	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11441	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kier has, on the one hand, criticised the fact that there is no concept of a comprehensive paper. On the other hand, in recent years we have always been accused that only papers would be available and not enough would happen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Now you do neither one nor the other!]] I can say that this motion for a resolution clearly states that, since we have been together for the first time – and that was already in 1996 – a great deal has actually happened. It has not only been produced paper, it has mainly been set up technology policy activities. And that's all better than a new paper. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the story, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen: In 1996, a paper was presented to us, namely the draft technology policy concept. That was a paper. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: And where is this paper? In the Recycle Bin!]] This paper has resulted in another paper. This was the task given by the Federal Government to science and the economy, namely Schmidt and Hochleitner ad personam. They should prepare a paper on the reorganisation of research institutions, on the reorganisation of research funding. [[New call of the abg. Dr Gredler.]] This was then dealt with in detail in the subcommittees, but in parallel to that, activities were also put in place in the departments, so not only was one limited to papers, Mrs Colleague. The content of this motion for a resolution today is not to be seen as a finale, but to me it is an interim report on the strategy pursued by the Federal Government during the current legislative period, and particularly for the next legislative period. There has been a clear analysis in this Schmidt/Hochleitner paper, with the result that we have a too low research and development rate. Industry is not enough in this field in international comparison. It has been suggested to create incentives for motivation, and I am very glad that the tax reform will increase the research contribution to the economy, namely for those who are already researching, to 25 percent, and that the new entrants – so that we can initiate new research activities – will be promoted by 35 percent. It has also been clearly pointed out in these analyses that the universities are too expensive in their research, and above all that they are not working enough with the economy. It has also been criticized – and this has already been pointed out by Mr Kier – that the research and development infrastructure in Austria is not homogeneous, but rather fragile and partial. The proposal to unite everything in one hand could not be joined by my group, because we consider the current competition between the resorts to be fertilizing. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ah! The result would then be 10, 15 Ministries, so that they can all get fertilized at the same time!]] I think that what the science community and the economic community, with the respective priorities of science and business, have presented, for example, is a healthy development. On the second proposal in the Schmidt/Hochleitner paper, namely to set up a wise council, according to the motto: a single advisory body outside of politics, I must say quite honestly that, since this proposal came from the large industry and I also see the medium-sized economy, I could not approve this proposal because it would have led to pure lobbyism. Finally, let me make a huge criticism, namely the abuse of research funds for PR in its own case by Minister Einm und Bundeskanzler Klima. From my point of view, it is a scandal that Seibersdorf funds research for PR campaigns of persons A chance to use a climate and a chancellor. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: That's really huge!]] The answer to the parliamentary question, Mr Minister, has been sent to us today. In this you make it clear that it is not supposed to be used for this because you use the funds of those companies that award research orders in Seibersdorf for these PR campaigns. I can tell you that my industry colleagues currently have a current research assignment in Seibersdorf. I know the tender documents of this research contract. There was no mention of marketing and PR activities for chancellors and ministers, and I cannot imagine that my industry colleagues agree that you are using these research funds so usefully.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11537	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11559	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After that was a proper abduction, Minister of State One, who now had to put you in from your coalition partner. Mrs Fekter has just failed to say: Of many ministers I think little, of one thing at all! - Well, good. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a free alliance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, President Vergestnich is no longer present, who meant that the company's recruitment policy must change with regard to older workers. - Ah, he's here anyway. Mr President. I have a proposal. I am right in saying that one of the outstanding problems facing you is that older workers are very often not getting away from me, you are not removed from the job, because they 'have done their job'. [[Abg. Obsessive: Or too expensive, how often is used, which is not true!]] I'll give you that. You should see the entire human capital, the experience et cetera, et cetera. It is a good thing to discuss this, and you know that this is also a personal concern for me, as a small and medium-sized person, to guarantee this quality of job security beyond the age of youth. That's good! [[Abg. I refer to the request made by your colleague, Mr Prinzhorn, who said that we are going to retire too early!]] Yes, there are, of course, many reasons why this is so, for example, the so-called globalisation that has to be kept as an excuse, and so on and so on. A major problem is that the additional wage costs are too high. I would now like to make a proposal, Mr President of the Council: immediate reduction of additional labour costs by 1 per cent, which is something, in the following form: The Chamber of Labour suspends the 0.5 percent contribution for more than 50 years of workers, the Chamber of Commerce reduces the amount of Chamber 2 by about 0.5 percent for gross wages. That's a whole percentage. This measure would give you an excellent example in your own home, namely the way in which you show that the older workers are worth something to you. That would be a good proposal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At some point we have to do nails with heads. [[Abg. That's a lot faster! I offer you 2.5 percent if we change the basis!]] Let's talk about everything! But you can't say now, we're going to the next destination, the next one isn't interested in me. This is the problem that you always have, that somewhere in the distance you paint a Fata Morgana on the wall, if I may say so, but are not willing to solve the daily problems. But, well, let's not argue about it, let's reduce the extra wage costs without burdening the tax bag with a single centesimo, because of the involvement of the social partners. And if you want to fill this word "social partnership" with life, then do it. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the quality of the industrial site depends on a number of factors that are essential to whether it looks good or bad. One of these factors is the F&E quota, we know it has already been discussed today. Such deregulations are necessary, because we also know exactly that, according to an OECD study, intelligent regulation entails an additional economic growth of at least 0.3 to 0.5 per cent per year. There we are all called together, so let's write this to us once and not to others. Now I ask you: If it has been intelligent to create an employee protection law – I say that every reasonable person, of course, confesses himself in his own interest to a reasonable worker protection, do we not need to talk about it, as a trade unionist you know as well as I do as a small trader – which is the opposite of deregulation? "Bürokratius watch oba!" This is because the title has been given to it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Vergestnichtsch: Let's check it in your company!]] Yes, come to me, please, come tomorrow! [[Abg. With you!]] Send me the tax! You can send me everything. I don't have a problem with that. I would just like to remind you of these paragraphs if I have the right to do so, because you have decided to do so. I quote: Section 109(3), Section 4, paragraphs 5 to 9 and paragraphs 11 to 15, Section 6, paragraphs 1 and 2, Section 9 paragraphs 5, 6, 13 and 14, Section 10 paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 6, Section 12 and Section 13(1) of the General Machinery and Equipment Safety Regulation, Federal Law No. 219/1983, as amended by the Regulations, Federal Law No 219/1983 575/1985, 667/1987 and 669/1989. Paragraph 6(1) and Article 10(2) shall apply subject to the condition that safety distances according to § 5 shall be considered as safety distances in accordance with § 32 AAV. § 12 shall be applied subject to the condition that operating instructions shall be regarded as operating instructions in accordance with § 14 of this Federal Act. – End of the quote. This is deregulation, Mr. Cot? And that is what you are now giving to the worker, the manager, the small businessman, the larger businessman to secure the industrial location and thus jobs in Austria? The worker has nothing to do with this, which is why the operation does not get healthier, but more sicker. And that's the problem! Therefore, we should work together to stop letting such accidents take place, because if this continues, we must read in the newspapers again and again – and for this reason, but not only for this reason: This year, 5 000 companies, et cetera, again cover vulnerable vultures. But that is not in your mind or in our sense. I know that there will always be bankruptcy in free economies, for many reasons too, but it must not be so that the wave of bankruptcy goes up. The Insolvency Change Act has also done nothing to improve the situation. You must therefore rely on our proposals, such as the flat tax.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11679	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11700	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will agree to both points which are now under negotiation, even though of course all that Mr Kier has said about the so-called technology policy concept is correct. There is no technology policy concept! After all, I thought that now, after all these years in which we have tried; four years of struggle in the Committee on Industry and so on; but I do not want to repeat all of this now – in the form of this proposal, 21 individual measures to be supported, which are to be seen in total, without letting myself in on any detail. I would also like to point out that one of the reasons for my agreement was that the two government parties in the committee were prepared to remove at least the worst incense, which should have had a bit of fog in the introduction of the text. So there is consent from our side in this area. But in order to document what we lack, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] On the last point, the paper remains guilty of any contribution at all, although the previous text again points out that the main objective of technology policy is to contribute to the increase of the R&D quota to 2.5 percent. 2.5 percent – that sounds so little! But if we were to increase the F&E quota to 2.5 percent today, we would have to spend more 20 billion schilling. By 2005, there will have to be much more than 20 billion schilling, as GDP will have risen until then. Mrs Fekter, of course, is as good as I am. We also know that it is not only the federal government that pays for this, but it is also damning the economy and industry, because there are the biggest gaps in research and development policy in Austria there. Debates of the European Parliament We also agree with the amendment to the Research Promotion Act. I would just like to say that the financing conditions in this area are still irregular. The federal grant for the year 1999 is not fixed by my knowledge, but only by the Minister of Finance. It also does not contain a longer-term approach to securing the FFF. I would also like to support the Minutes, which I have already said in committee: I would like to see whether those companies that receive the FFF's liability for loans will also benefit from lower interest rates. Because ceteris paribus – I am looking at colleagues Luke – so under other conditions, interest would have to fall if the risk and transaction costs for the banks... Yes, in the terms of business. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is always inside in business conditions!]] In practice, this must be done! Last point: As important as it is to this debilitating technology policy is: Hardly do you feel that you've closed a hole with a shopper somewhere, you're already getting the next one. Mr Vergestnitsch! The "Salzburger Nachrichten" of Saturday says: "Technology funds are in need of money." – The ITF, the Innovation and Technology Fund, had the somewhat peculiar financing structure that depends on its annual financing rate. Now the interest rates have fallen. The budget lacks 100 million schilling. This is a quarter of the budget of last year, and it must be said that in the early 1990s the funds were spent by some 600 million schillings. I also accept the report that on Monday a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the Federal Chancellor's Climate Change, which was looking for ways out of the ITF's financial crisis. That was before yesterday. - So what way out was found now? I urgently asked for an answer from one of the two Federal Ministers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11780	The motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Bellen has been tabled in accordance with the rules of procedure and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Gredler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11804	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister One! Mr Farnleitner, Minister of State! I am pleased that the government of Mr Fekter has been defined as an invigorating competition. I find it very interesting to know what kind of government we would then have in the future. Will it be the case, for example, that the right of divorce of the Minister of Justice will be presented and that the Minister of Women will make a different presentation, which will then be called a healthy competition within the government, and so in order not to come to a common denominator and to set back progress? I think it's an "interesting" government, but I don't think it's effective. However, the ÖVP is obviously not interested in the fact that, in terms of technology policy, Austria's progress is being made within European development, from which we are already clearly decoupling. This can be seen from small factors, such as the number of graduates in natural and engineering sciences. New graduates in this field aged between 25 and 34 reach a percentage of the 19th century. Place of Austria behind Turkey means. Austria is behind Turkey with the number of graduates of natural and engineering sciences – remarkable! – and we reach weak 25 percent of the number of graduates of leading nations. This means that we already have a major problem because of the level of higher education to be able to keep up with research and technology, because we are actually missing the descendants, the "red material", the scientists of the future. Of course, there is a lot to be ignored. On what is valued as a success, namely the paper by Schmidt and Hochleitner, which we have actually supported on large distances, I can only say to Mrs Fekter: I am surprised that a paper rejected by the Federal Government is presented here as particularly successful. Then why did you reject it? Why has it not been implemented long ago? Since 1996, this paper has been available here in the house, and we regularly discuss how to evaluate how to implement the statements of the Federal Government, namely to achieve really 2.5 percent of GDP in mid-2005. Not even Mr Niederwieser, your colleague from the SPÖ Group, said that this is a realistic objective. He would rather settle it at 2% of GDP. At least you've colported that into the media. So not even within the government groups, in the SPÖ, there are really quite convincing competitors. I think you should invite them to a private body so that we can't be infected by this enthusiasm that you're trying to spray here. The Liberals have not yet become it. In this context, I would like to address the ITF. The ITF is the Innovation and Technology Fund. It was founded in 1987. The financing of the ITF is based on the payment of interest on a fictitious amount. These interest rates are calculated according to the Lombard rate. Since interest rates are falling, financing will also decrease. Instead of saying that the ITF – the Innovation and Technology Fund is something important! – raised, he is screwed down by a quarter. In 2000, only more than 300 million schilling will be left, i.e. 100 million schilling less than before. This is called progress, and this is called a good negotiating position within the government and a successful competition! I can only be amazed! The Innovation and Technology Fund will be reduced by a quarter, and this will be sold to us as a success! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Research Fund has never spent as much money as 1998 and 1999!]] I would like this fund to be given more money or at least to remain the same if we take technology policy as important and if we already realize that we have a huge need for follow-up in the field of technology policy. But no, the Federal Government is shortening this fund. - I congratulate you! That's really "very good" what you're doing here. I have to say: I can only contradict the view that sound competition within the government of technology policy is conducive. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, because you don't know!]] They bring unrest in this area, they bring the scientists to emigrate. Look You're looking at the magazines and the statements made last week about Austria! They make the companies think they have a lot of time to do research elsewhere, because there is obviously no real ground for it in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's wrong!]] Microscopic approaches in the research field, there and there to open up, are far from sufficient to reach 2.5 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, that's right!]] I believe that the "healthy" competition in the Federal Government has led to the neutralization of these two gentlemen who are now sitting here. Since 1996, we have had no progress but a standstill. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Progress!]] This is not the research policy I wish for!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11896	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11917	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Research policy is social policy and is therefore politically controversial and controversial. Three years of subcommittee work on technology policy: I believe that a positive retracement can nevertheless be given. We have developed a very committed dialogue in Austria at this time, not only in our politicians, but also in society, science and the economy. It has already been discussed the subject of multiple competences in the ministries. But what has not been said is the fact that the coordinated procedure and the good and constructive cooperation between these two departments and the departments concerned is also a result of this process and that the negative information we received in this field three years ago is nothing left of today. The ladies and gentlemen in these departments work together perfectly and cooperate and coordinate very constructively. There has also been a significant development of our research and technology infrastructure in these three years. A problem of the Austrian research landscape has so far been and it is also part of the fact that the structures in this area have been or are underdeveloped. These "critical masses" have to be created first, spread across Austria. Some of them were already created. I am thinking of the competence centres "K-plus" and "K-ind". I am thinking of the Christian Doppler Society, which has been strongly activated and strengthened. However, academic universities in Austria have also been introduced across the board. This will train multipliers for the future. A few thousand new, qualified engineers and academics come out of this training process each year. They have a different access to research and technology than not as well-trained people. In addition, there was a reform process in the non-university field. Examples of this include Seibersdorf, Arsenal, Profactor in Steyr, or other non-university institutions, which have developed very strongly and very positively in recent years and are very constructive in enriching the Austrian research landscape, also decentralized across Austria. With regard to the Research Fund, which has already been mentioned today, we will now take action again. The activities of the Fund are intended to increase the impact of the Austrian economy. In addition, there is RIF, regional innovation support, RIP, regional innovation premium, ERP special programmes and the like, where massive support is also provided for decentralised institutions in the innovative and technology-oriented field. This support, or many of the measures that have been put in place in recent years, has enabled 8,000 jobs to be created since 1996. Cooperation with the countries is very well developed in some federal states. However, there are also some federal states, for which technology and research policy does not yet play this role, but in those federal states that are involved – I am thinking of Upper Austria, Carinthia or Salzburg – one can see the fruits of this good cooperation between the local authorities. Our motion for a resolution, which we are presenting today, contains 21 important points regarding the development of the Austrian technology and research scene in the near future. One reason for this motion for a resolution was also the Delphi study, which was essentially concerned with which socially relevant research fields will ensure over the next 15 years that there is additional work to ensure that the quality of life in Austria remains at the high level on which it is currently located. Seven fields have been defined, and these will be the focus of research and technology in Austria over the next few years. Of course, they are not by chance, in part, very similar to the themes in the Fifth Framework Programme and also other research projects or research concepts. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to address a very important matter which is also very important to me personally, and that is the question of biotechnology. The biotechnology investments are now taking place in Vienna, and the biotechnology cluster is finally emerging, because professors outside of the university have personally taken a very high risk and worked very successfully in this field. As a result, the support provided by our funding facilities will be very efficient, I am convinced of that. It is, of course, not true, what Mrs Gredler said, namely that nothing had been improved since 1996. There have been considerable improvements of structural but also monetary nature. In fact, 44 percent more funds are being used for technology-oriented projects today. However, I am right, Mrs Gredler, to say that technology and research policy are a cross-sectional matter and that, with many other policies, overlaps are taking place and these overlaps are either positive or negative. You mentioned an example of this. I believe that training and lifelong learning are such areas. We also need to look at these closely in this context. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are likely to adopt this motion for a resolution by a large majority today and that the outcome of the work in the Subcommittee and in the Committee on Industry will lead to broad approval today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e11985	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12007	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We are currently experiencing the full use of high-tech equipment in Kosovo. This makes me very concerned because I am a defender of technological development and as you all know, technological development has very often its roots in arms technology. I would like to make it clear here that we liberals have an anthropocentric technology that serves the technology of society and that it is intended to make people more independent and free. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Technology policy has gained in importance, even to the extent that two ministers are always working on it, and it will and has already been celebrated in us as a success that public interest in it is increasing. But it is a wormhead drop if we discuss a concept that is now three years old. Nor would anyone discuss the purchase of a three-year-old PC so violently. But this shows, in turn, that technology policy is a ongoing process and that it will not at all succeed in providing a comprehensive concept to the extent we would wish it to be. This concept, which is now before us, is partly very vaguely formulated, especially in those passages in which we are concerned with misconceptions of politics and administration. Finally, experts who, as has been said several times, have produced another paper, but also this was in vain, because we have remained in disputes of competence and in problems of competence. You all know that the last industrial committee took place in a very relaxed atmosphere. With this in mind, a certain sentence in the motion for a resolution was removed after the opposition had been intervened. I do not want to hold this sentence back from the House. It says: The last year has shown that cooperation between ministers is working smoothly. This constructive cooperation will continue. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ah, a dangerous threat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Either it is already the continuation of the coalition which is announced here, or it is considered as such by some technological actors as a threat if this type of cooperative and constructive cooperation is to continue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All in all, ladies and gentlemen, this 21-point request is similar to a government 'Schulterklpfaktion', and I insist that this request is totally embarrassing, since the proposals made have been written off from older concepts, largely have already been initiated and are now presented to the government in the form of a resolution. They are calling on the government to do something it must have been working on for a long time and what must have been started for a long time. I'll stay with you. This resolution is embarrassing! Ladies and gentlemen! The population – especially those who are active in technology policy – expects very clear statements, namely statements on when it will finally come to the commitment of privatisation proceeds, and also on what concrete measures the tax reform will bring beyond the announcement of the increase in the research allowance, and also on how it will be administered at all. In addition, a changeover to multi-annual financing plans is required. This is what the population expects, and we expect it to be. We call for decisive action to be taken in the near future. To the Research Fund only one word: The Research Fund shall be subject to a paradox: He is hardly taught, and at the end of the year there is a record result. However, this paradox does not contribute to the security of technology and research policy. We will agree to this law because it is a legalization of a practice which has been in force for some time, but we would draw attention to the fact that the bar value of the promotions does not increase by this law. What will increase if we do not succeed in continuously teaching the research funding fund is the uncertainty of the companies that would like to be supported. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12054	Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12076	Mr President. High house! It seems that the ITF threatens to overestimate the FFF because one complains that interest rates are under pressure because of the record low inflation, the record low credit rates, but on the other hand, the FFF falls victim to that in the optical impression. It has been cited here that the FFF's managing director has said in the industrial committee: However much we have complained, we have had a record year every time, and we will have 32 percent more research resources available this year than last year. We note with the investments of large foreign investors that we have never had so many large-scale research projects. I'm thinking of Novartis, of Baxter, of Conti in Traiskirchen. This should also be mentioned here. Foreign companies, which have been said for years that they will move research from Austria, will receive more money in Austria from biotechnology to traditional truck tyre technology. It can also be said here: If you look at the funding groups of research, you can see that it is also crucial for industry whether we have interest rates of 7 per cent or whether we have a third of the interest rate costs today when it comes to intelligent financing. This has also enabled us to increase the industrial share of research expenditure from 50 per cent to 57 per cent today. We have insisted that the fetishism of that 2.5 percent of GDP, as measured by a 1993 survey, leads to absolutely wrong conclusions, and we must also give our ear to it – we! – and we also write it behind our ears, because together we have decided to do a corresponding job. Professor Van der Bellen's already gone, but I'm telling him so to speak. The Committee agreed that a pure input control in research, namely simply investing 2.5 percent of GDP, can give a wrong picture. We have said that we must work together to achieve a more logical control of output results. And in the case of the output results, one can not only talk about the patent proceeds, but also about what is happening in the brand sector, and one must also talk about what has been created in this sector, for example, on jobs. [[Abg. Böhacker: But this must be a matter of course!]] Again: I have heard this kind of argumentation not yet from any member of the opposition in the committee, but all have represented the 2.5 percent philosophy. [[Abg. Böhacker: Please! An input without an output is a nonsense!]] May I emphasize that, since I am responsible for this, I have been criticizing the fact that we have to control more and more on the output side. I repeat in this House that in the future it will be one of the most important tasks, including the Patent Office, to pay attention to what will be done in the registered patents. We have before – I really don't just announce it, but the job is already outside – to make the output analysis a subject of the future debate. One last comment: The proposed tax benefits are also likely to lead to companies considering the new conditions of funding, parts of research from elsewhere, where this research funding does not take place, moving to Austria. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mr. Minister! But you were still in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on my question.]] You asked me something else in committee. Excuse me, but we can continue this debate. [[Abg. Böhacker: next committee!]] I have said that in the meantime two months have passed, in the meantime the draft has been sent for review, in the meantime all research leaders have given reports to their mother houses on the future positioning of research and funding in Austria. And I'm gonna join you. Since then, it has been shown that with those 2 billion shillings of liability that you are likely to decide today and which will be available to the FFF, we will actually deal with a much more intelligent financing system than we have been able to cope with so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12151	It has now come up with a statement by Mr Bundesminister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12173	Mr President. High house! I can not only fully agree with what Mr Farnleitner has just said, but I would also like to add to the statement in one respect, and this is the following: Because we have to go away from the purely input orientation, because it is a matter of what happens to the funds in the context of the research and development efforts, because it is important to use these resources efficiently and target-orientedly, we have now put ourselves in full force to develop a research strategy for the medium-term period in Austria, namely the "Research Strategy 99 plus", in which using the great work of the Delphi report Austria already quoted today, and with the involvement of the Scientific Community – I am allowed the foreign word – the attempt is being made to make a clear positioning not only of the output we want to see, but also a clear answer to the question: How do we want to finance? and a clear answer to the question: What instruments are to be used to deal with this task? .................................................................................................. They will - and this has already been reported in the Committee - receive a Green Paper on Research Strategy 99 plus by June. This will then be discussed in detail. Only if we have a clear orientation for what we spend the money for will it make sense to increase the public and private resources for research and development dramatically, which we clearly know about in Bad Aussee. I think this is not a question of fighting at all, but rather of working together on a concept that is to the benefit of the people in that country. And we all confess to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12206	Mr Kampichler is now speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12227	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Austrian research policy focuses on the research of biotechnology. In particular, the sector of renewable raw materials will be used even more in the future. Our knowledge gap, which we have in this area, is to be secured and, of course, further expanded in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With these initiatives, we can increase value added in our own country and create additional jobs. We can also reduce our country's dependence on primary energy imports and thus improve our trade balance. Moreover, there is still an essential environmental aspect, namely the reduction of greenhouse gases. This research project brings, as you have noticed, ladies and gentlemen, improvements in many areas, particularly of course in the areas of economics and, as mentioned, environmental protection. It is a particularly important step towards the sustainable economy in the field of energy policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We have with the tax reform, the one with 1. In January 2000, a decisive impetus is also to come into force. In the future, it will be possible to add rape methyl esters to the diesel, and this addition will be exempt from the mineral oil tax. With regard to the many positive aspects caused by bioenergy, the abandonment of this tax share is certainly justified. We are also increasing the market opportunities of this product. Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, energy from biomass still opens up a very wide spectrum, there are still a lot of possibilities here. That is why the federal states of Lower Austria and Burgenland, together with the industry, have launched an initiative and want to build competence networks in the field of biomass. Competence nodes are to be established in Wiener Neustadt and Güssing. Focus in Vienna Neustadt is the construction of a biomass-block heating plant for heat-led application. I am personally very pleased that this project will be implemented in Wiener Neustadt, because we have the best conditions for it there. On the one hand, we have the regional innovation centre and the technical university – they provide the organisational and scientific basis – and on the other hand, of course, the biological raw material is abundantly available in the surrounding area. We are predestined for this project, and it will be an essential part of economic innovation in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, I would like to address the opposition parties here: We really do not need to generate in the field of research and development, we do not need to put our light under the Scheme. In the Committee on Industry, we were able to learn that our research projects must not hide the European comparison. In terms of creativity, Austria has an excellent position, in 50 niche areas Austria is the number one. In addition, it is gratifying - the Minister has just mentioned this - that many large companies are relocating their research to Austria again. The positive example of Conti was also mentioned by the Federal Minister. I also agree with Minister Farnleitner that research performance should be measured not primarily after the use of funds, but according to the results. It is important that the research results are also implemented accordingly in Austria. Increased competition with neighbouring countries requires us to move towards high-tech products with high value added. Research funding is an important instrument. Only by this can we meet the challenges of the third millennium.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12277	I call Mr Blünegger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12298	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen. If you have heard the two ministers today, you can only say: Gemini performance of this federal government. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Should we deal with each other?]] Everyone meant the same thing, but hopefully what they said won't last too long because of the bureaucracy. I would like to quote two comments from many who have been received today in my contribution to the debate. This agenda, of course, gives us a lot of opportunity to show the failure of the Federal Government, because: "It's not a secret: Home research is at risk of finally coming under the wheels. The Federal Government's technology offensive is a purely mogel pack." – Now some will believe that these are my words. That's not true. These are the words of the President of the Research Fund of the Industrial Economy, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Werner Frantsits. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Strong words!]] That actually shows how far this federal government is, ladies and gentlemen. These words are not surprising either, because where is the money, the funding of research funding for the year 1999? – Of the two ministers we only heard: Yeah, it's coming in July. Governor Liebscher of the National Bank has said that he does not want to give up anything from his pot, but according to the present proposal, 700 million Schilling is to come out of the Jubilee Fund. I'd be glad if it were, because our economy needs the money. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even the EIA or its next Presidential Conference of the Agriculture Chambers regrets its opinion on the Government template of 10. In March 1999, budget financing was no longer guaranteed in practice, which has been practised for many years. – I have just quoted that, and that already means to me as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, that – and I am even sorry – this federal government is receiving a declaration of bankruptcy, because the beautiful presentation of the legislative novels cannot be concealed either. On one of my parliamentary questions, which I have addressed to the Federal Government, to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as well as to the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Science and also to the Minister of Finance, I have received nothing but a reply, and these excuses show me that a Member does not even have the opportunity to get clear answers to questions. I myself work in an industrial plant producing highly technological industrial products, one of the most environmentally friendly gas engines. I must therefore say to you: If you talk to the entrepreneurs, you will find out: The Austrian industry is afraid of the politics decided here in the National Council. And that's certainly not a good sign! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I would like to quote a sentence which also comes from an opinion: "The promotion of research and development projects should be designed in accordance with the EU's funding directives and borders." This proposal comes from the Federal Chamber of Labour, which took place on 2 July. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the And I think that's all right. But what has been done in this opinion? It has not been included in the Committee on Industry or in the plenary session. That is why, I believe, it is appropriate for us to say the following: Austria's milky F&E quota will not continue to rise as it would be necessary, but we will nevertheless agree to Agenda item 3, Federal Law amending the Research Funding Act 1982.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12359	Mr Farnleitner, President of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12380	Both Mr Blünegger and previous Members Van der Bellen drew attention to this and asked: What about the financing of the still open funds in the FFF? I said it in committee, I think, but I repeat it for those who were not present in committee. With Minister Edlinger, I have deliberately used the instrument of a tight budgeting of the Federal Budget to prevent the FFF from being the home bank of financiers, and to make it possible to make only the necessary funding without a bank function. We have therefore a) forced him to use relatively much of the backslidings for liabilities at first – he has in the meantime used a liability volume of 1.5 billion schillings in his own field –, b) he will also receive the funds that we have put before him to the extent required. The next BÜG, which will be presented to the House, will be given 270 million schillings which the Fund needs. It is therefore no longer supported or rejected, and in the meantime, management and the institutions of the FFF have also made a clear commitment to this new financing strategy. The financing of the second rate in the second half of this year will be carried out through internal retransmissions of my house. So I would like to stress here again: There should be no ambiguity about that. The uncertainty about the central bank has also long been clarified by appropriate Council decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12429	Mr Dr Niederwieser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12450	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The focus of today's discussion is on a very ambitious project, namely: How can we manage to reach 2.5 percent of GDP for research by 2005? This is a very essential issue because it is an ambitious goal. Let me therefore address some of the proposals made by my previous speakers. Mr Haigermoser proposed that it would be a solution, on the one hand, to waive part of the employees' contribution to the AK levy and on the other hand to the additional costs of pay. I've got the 15th grade here. This year's statement comes from an international consulting firm that has made a comparison of location costs – the Canadian KPMG – and it concludes that Austria is one of Europe's most cost-effective economic locations. [[Abg. Böhacker: Yes, yes! All palettes! It's all great!]] I'm allowed to quote: "Austria can focus mainly on the low tax burden for companies." - That's a fact. This not only determines this company, but it also identifies other companies that carry out site consulting. We therefore see no particular reason in this situation to reduce the tax burden once again. [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha, this is important! That's good to know! This speech must be remembered!]] What is being lowered and what is planned is fixed with the tax reform package. This will also come about, as there will be more for research promotion and the like. But the claim that there would be too high additional labour costs and too high costs for companies is not right and does not stand international comparisons. [[Abg. Böhacker: But the Chamber of Commerce says something else! There are even actions!]] A second thing: The Seibersdorf campaign excites. In principle, this is quite simple. If you look at poster walls, you can see that, for example, a very successful weekly magazine with our Federal Chancellor advertises or has also advertised with Mr. Vice-Chancellor. This works in such a way that a successful company is using a successful personality to achieve these advertising benefits. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Therefore, if today Seibersdorf or Austrian Research is selling with the Federal Chancellor in the sense of the research interests, this is very well considered and certainly also has a significant advertising effect in the sense of a positive research family. There's nothing to do with that at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Apart from that, it is a bit reluctant to say, Mr Lukesch, on the one hand, that we politicians are now withdrawing something, we are not giving up everything in detail what a research institution should do, but on the other hand, in this case at Seibersdorf, to say: You can't turn this listing on! That's a policy mission! – So that’s just not quite the same from the line. The most important thing in all our research efforts here is certainly the research environment. In this respect, for example, the Ministry of Science, together with the Austrian Press Agency, has launched a very good action, which means that everyone can access the Austrian Press Agency free of charge in those parts of reports on research results that are of interest. In this context, I also mention the action carried out by the Ministry of Science together with the daily newspaper "Der Standard", in which internationally renowned Austrian scientists are presented. All these are actions that are absolutely worth continuing, and I think – just as a small side-by-side remark – that one could probably take a little more serious to this APA side. I would just like to quote a few of those research projects that have been led there; they are really in the middle of life: "Handys do not cause any memory loss", a sure for many interesting research project. Conversely, there is a research project whose result in the title is briefly summarized with the words "high blood pressure causes brain to shrink". Or a third thing: "God was a woman for 25 000 years." – So you see, there are a lot of very "interesting" research projects here. But that's not all, there are also very practical projects. When it comes to the relationship between application-oriented research, basic research and their transmissions, we believe that it is important that the mobility of persons between different areas is clearly promoted, i.e. mobility between universities, between non-university research institutions and between business research, and also regional mobility. Therefore, it is not as bad or regrettable as the previous speaker expressed when Austrian researchers spend a period of time or years abroad and come back with these results and these experiences. This linkage between basic research and industrial application is essential. The link between university research and companies is also about "glass" finances. We attach great importance to the fact that exact accounting of costs in the field of universities is presented. A special initiative is the Fifth Framework Programme of the European Union, which was completed and completed by the Federal Minister. This programme, with its key actions, is one of the successes achieved during the Austrian Presidency. Mr Gartlehner has already mentioned the fact that we are trying to limit these areas of the Fifth Framework Programme and our Delphi study. I mention a few topics that have not yet been mentioned: the important topic of lifelong learning, the improvement of the socio-economic knowledge bases or sustainable mobility and cooperation of modes of transport – a subject that is certainly of high interest for Austrian research institutions and also of great political and practical relevance – or medical technology and life support for older people. What we want and seek in all our efforts, however, is that research and development not only serve the stock and competitiveness of global markets, but at the same time bring more social justice, more democracy and more positive effects on the environment. Then research really succeeded in a comprehensive sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12525	The honourable Member's friend now comes up with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12546	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Fekter and Mr Ing. Mr Gartlehner tabled a motion for a resolution on the increase in the research and development rate in Austria. If we want to prove ourselves on the international market, we need above all one, namely good ideas, which can be realized and sold in the form of innovative products. The basis of these good ideas is user-oriented research and development. Austria's economy is characterized by its small structure. A large number of jobs in Austria represent small and medium-sized enterprises, and not least because of ensuring these jobs, it is essential that especially small and medium-sized enterprises can develop and sell new ideas, new products. Often these companies lack the necessary capacity to bring these ideas to standard mature products. They need the appropriate framework conditions. Research and development must also be manageable for small and medium-sized enterprises. The motion for a resolution tabled lists a wide range of targeted measures. In particular, I would like to stress that a focus has been placed on biomass energy. I have already pointed out several times in this House that the efficient use of renewables and renewables can increase the benefits of ensuring multifunctional agriculture, protecting the environment and creating and securing new jobs. However, a lot of research needs to be done in the field of biotechnology. Today's decision is the beginning of the development of an international market potential. Austria is well known for its biotechnology and has a great know-how in this field. But it is not enough that this knowledge exists only in theory, ladies and gentlemen, it must also be useful and, above all, can be applied to new products. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Cooperation between the researchers and the firms must be improved, because only if we can sell more innovative products abroad and abroad can Austria's economic location be maintained and improved. This serves to safeguard jobs, in particular new ones can be created. Innovations in biomass technology have another advantage: As a result of declining imports and increasing exports, they reduce the trade deficit. Since accession to the EU, the trade deficit has fallen from more than 100 billion schillings to around 50 billion schillings in Austria, a success in which Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner is certainly involved and which we can certainly continue with this research promotion policy. Since Austria's accession to the EU, foreign companies have invested more than 150 billion Schilling in its operating sites in Austria. Our economic policy cannot therefore be so bad. Let's take advantage of these opportunities! Let's expand the knowledge gap! I think it is very positive that more funding is now available for research funding and that proposals can be made with far-reaching effectiveness. Research and development ensure and create jobs, strengthen the competitive opportunities, secure the economic location of Austria and thus also our high standard of living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12598	Mr Ellmauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary time limit also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12620	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, 1.5 percent of research and development rates are too little in international terms, even for Austria too little. But it is not only important to measure the input and talk about input, ladies and gentlemen, but also the output is very important. [[Abg. Böhacker: Well learned!]] This is about measuring the financial resources we use in the field of research. If we look at the situation in Austria, we can see that we are in this In fact, the area is not so bad, for example, the number of patent applications applied for over the last two years has increased considerably. We are third in comparison with the countries of the European Union. The Austrian current account has also improved significantly in 1998. Never before has the Austrian economy been invested as much as it is now and the export share of the Austrian economy has never been as large as it is now. And if we look at the trend in price stability, we see that we have never had an inflation rate like these since 1945; 0.4% mean price stability! In order to continue this successful path, it is essential that we increase the liability framework for the Research Fund. I therefore welcome this measure, as envisaged in the Government's proposal, because we can therefore continue this successful path for the Austrian economy in the context of research and development. We can thus also increase the research and development rate. – All of this is enough for me to agree to this amendment to the 1982 Research Funding Act. We need more user-oriented research and not just basic research at Austrian universities. For the improvement of the trade balance, for the success of the world market and ultimately for the security of jobs and living standards in Austria, we need innovation through cooperation. We need the competitive advantage "know-how". For the next five years in the Federal State of Upper Austria, an amount of around 1 billion Schilling is available for research and development under the Upper Austrian strategy programme "2000 plus". Currently, most successful work is being done on the realization of various clusters, i.e. on technology networks. I am thinking of the automotive cluster, with which only 220 companies cooperate. However, I also think of the software park Hagenberg, which is a high school location and also location of more than 20 companies. This proves that synergies between the economy and science are targeted. It is important to increase the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in research and development in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore call for the establishment of a Techno Centre in each of the Austrian districts and for the federal government to promote these techno centres everywhere at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12661	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. Voluntary time limit also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12683	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The economic situation, the economic success of a country and the research policy of a country cannot be separated. That is why I think it is very good that we have both the Minister of Science and the Minister for Economic Affairs here on the Government Bank today, which document that economic and research should form a unity. The economy of Austria is in the uproar – this is what the figures show. Austria is the third most creative country in the field of patent applications after Germany and the Netherlands. For a country and for politics, it is a question of whether it makes sense to operate huge research funding sites or rather individual small areas. I personally believe that the Austrian way, namely to divide a network of small research institutions across the country, is right. You could almost compare it to a mosaic where many small building blocks produce a beautiful whole. I would like to refer briefly to one point of the motion for a resolution, namely, centres of competence and networks of competence. These are time-limited research institutions designed to bring university and non-university skills together with the economy. The cooperation of research with the economy, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises, is necessary and also a very important opportunity. Mr Gartlehner said that the cooperation of the Federal Government and the Federal Government with the countries is very good. As a Styrian MP, I would like to take out Styrian examples, especially the "K-plus" centres in Styria, the Leoben Economic Competence Centre with the focus on university research and development, and in particular the AVL acoustics competence center. In this case, the starting position was that there is no institute in Austria which can carry out these tasks comprehensively, but that the requirements of the industry are very high, according to AVL List, Eurostar, Siemens, SGP, the automotive cluster and SMEs. It has also been tried to set up activities in the sense that a 3-liter car with the same comfort as a middle-class car is being developed and the aim is to carry out application-oriented basic research, the implementation of application-oriented development and technology transfer, and one also strives to continue to work on the training of university and college students. Further projects in Styria are planned, namely the Bautechnikzentrum Graz and the Motor Technology Center in Graz. The comparison shows: There's been an uproar in the Styria. About 80 per cent of the employees who have now been included are based in the Styria region. And I can also point out the leverage effect – in the field of the automotive cluster it is 1:10. Team spirit instead of individual fighting! – In this sense, we are happy to give our consent to this technology concept by the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12735	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of reporting has not been required. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will take place separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Industry to take note of this report III-54 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. . This report has been largely taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the 1710 Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this resolution to give a sign. – The resolution has been adopted by a majority majority. (E 171.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Dr Volker Kier and comrades on the lack of a financing concept for the Federal Government's technology promotion measures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Dr Van der Bellen and Comrades on the Federal Government's approach to technology policy. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1671 of the supplements. Those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill may give a sign of approval. This draft was adopted unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1650 of the Supplements): Bundesgesetz, which amends the Bundesvergabegesetz 1997 (1716 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12839	We're coming to the 4th. Agenda item. There has been no oral reporting, so that I am the first speaker, this is Mrs Dr Karlsson, to give the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12864	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! This draft law includes adapting federal law to EU directives, which were necessary by various changes to the provisions of EU competition law. I am pleased that the request will be adopted unanimously. I think it is very positive if, so to speak, it is possible in the near future to introduce constructive opposition requests if there is really a will to cooperate, as was the case in the Committee. I shall therefore put forward a corresponding amendment and resolution. From the point of view of content, I would like to stress that in Austria, as far as the procurement laws are concerned, we are doing a pioneering work within the framework of the EU. We have already included environmental aspects and aspects of training in these laws, and now women's minister Prammer has presented guidelines on women's promotion for the award. We hope that this aspect will also come into play. Minister Prammer is working very closely with the Commission, the current Presidency of Germany and the future Presidency of Finland on this issue. The crucial point is that Community objectives can very well be implemented in the various legislations. For it cannot be said that, on the one hand, at EU level, we have competition in competition law without any conditions, but on the other hand, there are some programmes to promote the disabled and women. I believe that we are on the right track in this regard and that Austria has done a great deal of pioneering work in this area. I am particularly pleased, Mrs Haidlmayr, that there is a five-party amendment, as well as a five-party resolution request concerning the construction of the disabled. I now read these requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now I come to the amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] The other speakers will, as has already been said, address individual aspects of content. I would just like to say that our group will be happy to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12971	Both the motion for a resolution and the amendment tabled both by Mrs Dr Karlsson are, in accordance with business rules, sufficiently supported and under negotiation. I now give the floor to Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e12995	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In today's hour we have been dealing with the topic of "Falling Competition Destroys the Market". There were a number of interesting – but not only interesting – contributions. I was impressed by the clear positioning of the Minister for Economic Affairs. He pointed out the areas in which we need national recovery and recovery, and said that there will be progress in these areas in the near future. But competition also needs order, competition needs rules, especially in the public procurement sector, where public procurement is concerned. Our procurement system was originally regulated through the ÖNORM 2050. The accession to the European Union forced the integration of the Community directive. We therefore implemented the European Community's procurement rules in Austria in 1997 with the Federal Procurement Act. This law has been a comprehensive consultation within the Committee and, of course, in-depth discussions with the Chamber of Commerce and the interest groups, the Chamber of Architects. That was very crucial and important. The representatives of the municipality and the town were also present. By the Decision of the EC Council of 2 December 1988, the Council of Ministers of the European Communities adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Finland on the one part, and the Republic of Austria on the other part, of the other part, of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and of the European Economic Community on the one part, and the European Economic Area, of the other The GPA forms an integral part of the Community legal system, and therefore two legal systems are applied by contracting entities subject to both the GPA and the Community directives. Although the EC directives were a model for the GPA, there are some differences which are now being eliminated by this law. In addition, the present draft will limit the so far mandatory conciliation to the period prior to the opening of offers or before the laying down of binding offers in the negotiation procedure. This has proved necessary so that, after the opening of an offer, the parties to the dispute are immediately on the way to the Federal Award Office. Voluntary conciliation after offer is still possible for the parties involved in the proceedings, but the other measure appears to be more meaningful and better. This law also contains a reduction of thresholds. The requests were based on discussions within the Committee. We have received the suggestion to take greater account of the concerns of the disabled and follow them with this amendment. Furthermore, this request provides a comprehensive opportunity for the bidders to provide information on the characteristics and benefits of the successful offer, but without disruption of the business interests of the others – that was crucial, and this is particularly important. I am pleased that we have been able to provide a clear regulation and that this will be given general approval.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13042	The next item is Mr Dr Kier's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13063	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can keep my statements very short. It is clear that this revision is a Community adaptation which is useful and necessary. I simply do not want to see what has been said in committee, because we agreed in the committee that there is a need for improvement in the area of competence and the fragmentation of the economic area. In order for the Federal Government to be able to work with even more fresh courage, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it would be beneficial for Austria's economic location if bidders and investors were not to study nine different types of games in the same set of rules, namely contract law. I therefore hope that this proposal will find a majority. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13114	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kier is, as a matter of course, supported and submitted in accordance with the rules of procedure and will be included in the negotiations. Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13139	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that it has become possible to bring about a substantial change in § 34 of the Procurement Act. It has always been important to me and it will always be important in the future that disabled people have a piece of self-determination right at parliamentary level and will also be briefed. With § 34 one comes a bit closer to this goal, because now it is no longer natural to be able to carry out renovations, renewals and renovations everywhere in the area of the federal government, without asking disabled people and without taking into account the needs of disabled people. In the future, it will be possible for disabled people to deliver opinions on whether a building for people with disabilities really does not need to be usable or whether it must be very usable. This change has succeeded in this new law, and I am pleased that my resolution has indeed been used as a basis for this change of law and that it has come to such a positive solution. I would like to thank all those who have worked for this. It is a great step towards self-determination of disabled people! However, I would also like to ask you – this point is very important to me – not to forget that, for example, in the Palmenhaus in the Burggarten, which was completely renovated only a few months ago and in whose reconstruction really millions have been put in, the coffee house, the restaurant for wheelchairs is unrollable. There are only steps, and there has been no room for a corresponding ramp despite the large pre-range, so that disabled people can also visit this place. I hope that this will be supplemented, because it is certainly not a question of protecting the monument, why you did not have a rampage to make. I would like to say briefly to the contract law that the amendment of the contract law is an implementation of the EU directive. Personally and with our Greens it pains me that this directive imposes certain award criteria - such as whether a farm is operating women's promotion, whether a farm has fulfilled its disability requirements, whether an operation is setting environmental measures in the area of its company - in the future no longer play a role in awarding a contract. Mr State Secretary! I would ask you to work to ensure that these important award criteria are also included in the EU directives and that Austria is the driving force for the inclusion of these award criteria in the directives. For it must not continue to adhere to the principle: The cheaper, the better!, it must not be so that only those companies that build cheaply and make the cheapest offers. You know: The cheaper a construction project is offered, the less the environmental requirements which these companies meet are, the less the requirements of the need to set up disabled persons or the conditions for the promotion of women. I think there is still a lot to be done, but we will nevertheless agree to this law, because § 34 is moving towards progress for people with disabilities. Thank you again!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13185	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. A final word was not requested by the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take the seats, because we are going to vote. The subject of the vote is the draft law and its title and receipt in 1716 of the supplements. To this end, Members Dr. Karlsson, Donabauer, Dr. Graf, Dr. Kier, Haidlmayr and comrades have tabled an additional or amendment request. There is only one request. I shall therefore be voting on the draft legislation as it stands in the Committee's report, taking account of the supplementary and amending proposals submitted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this draft law contains constitutional provisions, so that I first, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, determine the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Dr Karlsson, Donabauer, Dr Graf, Dr Kier, Haidlmayr and comrades concerning § 34 para. 2, § 57 Last sentence and § 128 para. 5 Z 1. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This approval has been given unanimously, and I expressly state the presence of the constitutional quota, namely the two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to the draft in third reading may give a sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading, once again with the necessary quota, the two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Karlsson, Donabauer, Dr Graf, Dr Kier, Haidlmayr and comrades concerning § 34 Federal Procurement Act. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may give a sign of approval. The motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 172.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Kier and Mr Comrades on the uniform basis of competence for public procurement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (1644 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the High Performance Track Act and the Federal Act establishing a "Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft" and laying down rules on the collection and fixing of benefit fees for certain high performance lines (1732 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (1645 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Private Railway Support Act 1988 (1733 of Supplements) 7. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the report (III-162 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Science and Transport pursuant to Article 3(2) of the Federal Railway Act 1992 on public service and the changes made (1684 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the petition (PET-24) on the increase in the rate of increase in the East Region transport network, presented by Mr Peter Rosenstingl (1685) 9. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (BI-7) on the decommissioning of the railway in 13. Wiener Gemeindezirk instead of building the Lainzer Tunnel" (1690 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13330	We now come to points 5 to 9 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are starting the debate with a speech by the honourable Member Mag. Oh, my God, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13358	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to refer to the first point, to the novelle on the high-performance train law and to the federal law on the establishment of the Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft. Ladies and gentlemen! If I interpret the objectives correctly, the ministry is concerned with three objectives. Firstly, in the official division at least, it is a matter of creating a possibility for the temporary safeguarding of the route, which is limited in time. Secondly, it is about enabling third parties to participate. If I may quote the text of the law in the explanatory statement: It is also about the possibility of the creation of PPP financing, of private public partnerships. Thirdly, it is about harmonizing the various provisions on the one hand in the HL-AG Act and on the other hand in the law on the establishment of the Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft. At first glance, all of this looks relatively inconceivable. But there are in the matter itself a number of points that raise considerable criticism. Therefore, I would also like to say in advance: We liberals will not agree to this proposal, for it is not understandable for me, Mr Federal Minister – and I do not, as I believe, stand alone in this respect – what happens, for example, to the claims for compensation, if, for example, the case occurs, that, so to speak, the procedure is under way over legal empowerment, so that it cannot be built for three years, that a complete construction stop is imposed, and if after these three years the ministry says, for example: There's not a trail being moved here, but somewhere else! Federal Minister! There's, you know, someone on the track. The citizen remains on the road because the claims for compensation, as the Ministry of Justice has also stated in its opinion, are not taken into account in any way. This is really an unsatisfying state, ladies and gentlemen. You shouldn't make laws like that. Second point: PPP financing. You know, it's nice that you come back with it, although the term "PPP" in this case really comes to a keyword. For three years, Mr. Federal Chancellor Klima – when he was still Minister of Transport, and also as Minister of Finance – rejoiced, for three years he spoke of nothing other than the Private Public Partnership. Then his experts told him, that's nothing, that's not feasible, there are only a few projects in Europe that work on this basis. So it's sunk back in the drawer. - And you'll get it out now. That's what I'm really asking myself, Minister of State: What are you doing? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also about something else, and I would like to take the opportunity to talk about it again. We have extremely difficult multiple structures in the railway sector, which are more difficult than encouraging. I should like to remind you, for example, that in the area of rail we have six companies which make a significant part of the same. First of all, there is the ÖBB branch, then the ÖBB infrastructure, then the HL-AG, then the Brenner-Eisenbahn-AG, then we have the rail infrastructure company and finally the ASFINAG – an operating company and five infrastructure companies that all care about the same topic. Federal Minister! This really loses a lot of efficiency. It can't be. It is not the variety of tasks that would justify this difficult, inflexible organization, but I believe that another background is important for this: It is about the famous proporz and the post-chacher in the area of the Bundesbahnen. This must not be touched, therefore the structures must not be changed, and therefore you leave everything as it is. Federal Minister! We want to continue to give this a clear rejection. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You just need to look at the names: Federal Minister Dr. Einm, comes from the OMV – red; Dr. Szekley, CEO of Raaber-Bahn – red; Draxler, Director-General ÖBB – Rot; Dipl.-Ing. Brenner, Director-General of HL-AG and at the same time the rail infrastructure company, former secretary of German Chancellor Klima – red; Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Klugar, ÖBB Director, former Secretary of State. And it goes on: Deputy Director-General Dipl.-Ing. Hainitz, ÖBB Supervisory Board, ÖBB Vice-Chairman, Chief of Supervisory Board of HL-AG, and so on, Dr. Gerhard Stingl, former Transport Officer of Pröll, and so on, and so on. According to the proven Austrian manner: Six influential directors, four reds, two blacks. This is the proven Austrian proporz model! [[Abg. Müller: And what about the ORF in Carinthia?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Carinthia!]] But with this displeasure, these unproductive structures must once and for all be concluded, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I agree with a motion for a resolution to create the spiritual basis for this. Ladies and gentlemen! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! A clear request, a clear order. If you want to create order in this area, you agree. If you still want to go "to it" as before, then do it as you had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13436	The motion for a resolution, by Mr Magistrate, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Firlinger is supported in accordance with business rules, has been handed over and is included in the proceedings. Mr Edler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13484	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That wasn't a dirty dome, it was a totally mixed dirt dome that you poured out here. If you want to pour out something like this, you also need to know the hierarchies and order the dirt accordingly. They have addressed companies responsible for the ÖBB. It's overcrowded! Especially the ASFINAG is snow from yesterday! You should read in better and look at this topic more closely! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction was all right, I do not need to repeat the content of this debate. I would just like to make a few comments. As far as the provisional race regulation is concerned, I believe that this is absolutely necessary. We have learned from the experience. In some projects, there have been major problems, because some people – I deliberately say "some" – have speculated with the properties, thereby delaying or preventing certain projects or trails for months or years. This cannot be the meaning and purpose of these projects. I think that is also essential, and this should be emphasised here: that the high-performance railways AG or the Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft will allow European railway projects to be implemented together. I think that's particularly good. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to the third party, to the PPP models, which were also addressed here: It is true that I am personally disappointed, and probably also the esteemed Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is disappointed that the statements made at the time by certain members of the construction industry have not been complied with. At the time, a few years ago, these gentlemen offered: Yes, we will propose financing models, we will participate! – But when it came to really making nails with heads, these gentlemen suddenly left the construction industry. Now, the possibility of working with private individuals is being created again. Ladies and gentlemen! But I also say that there is a need for caution in this regard. The so-called opening up, liberalisation, may be good, may bring more competition, but let's look at Germany or look at the UK: These countries have implemented some of these models. Let's see what's going on there with the so-called land traffic – this is particularly demanded by the Greens! We see that the students, the commuters, the socially weak remain on the track. That can't be our models. With us, there must only be a really careful approach to this cooperation in the form of private models, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make a few more comments on transport policy, because it is precisely what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the High Performance Centre is fulfilling a very important task and that it is doing it very well, ladies and gentlemen. This is an important contribution to employment policy in Austria, and this is also to be highlighted here. I think it should also be stressed repeatedly that the Federal Government has also made timely provision for financing, through the so-called Rail Infrastructure Financing Act. There is thus the possibility of carrying out substantial rail expansions. Ladies and gentlemen! I've already said: I do not think it is right for us to have a current discussion between rail and road again. That's bad! In my opinion, that does not bring us any further. We need a networked approach in this area, a sensible common transport policy. Where the rail is right to take the lead, for example when moving heavy traffic from the road to the rail, there the rail is to be given priority. Today, the media are also talking about the expansion of the Danube et cetera and other canal buildings. I support this, ladies and gentlemen. But I think it will be important, above all, to have a so-called networked approach. Ladies and gentlemen! For the future, also with regard to the Rail Regulator – Mr. Hums will probably still have to talk about it – we, as Austrian politicians, must also consider the following: We must try to help our railways in competition, because liberalisation will be a challenge and bring with it the danger that Germans, Dutchmen, Italians will come in here and gain market shares. I believe that the ÖBB is currently prepared and able to stand on the European market. However, we have the necessary conditions to ensure that the ÖBB can continue to claim, thus maintaining qualified and socially protected jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13553	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Barmüller with a desired speaking time of 5 minutes; the remaining speaking time of the group is 26 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13574	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have to go through these materials at the tempo, I would like to take a direct look at the citizens' initiative No. 7 in the course of which it is to be said that the line should be cut down in the 13th century. Wiener Gemeinschaft instead of the construction of the Lainzer Tunnel goes, which is not, however, the position of the Liberals. Why do I grab that out? . Because we will, on the one hand, agree with the motion for a resolution of the government groups, which says that there must be more information and more communication and, in particular, an accompanying environmental supervision of buildings – and we are also of this opinion – but we think it is overwhelming, Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the government groups that the Committee, with its votes, must also note that "in the course of all necessary authorisation procedures, deadlines and party rights must be respected in accordance with the legal and Community legislation". That's where I ask you: How far has it come to be with the implementation of the laws in Austria if it is explicitly stated in the National Council that public authorities too must comply with national laws and, in particular, with Community regulations? – It cannot be assumed that contraryly such a "no na net" statement will be decided in the house. One seems to have the impression that the implementation of the laws "on the free land", I say now, is lacking. But there is something else to do, and not just to show such a mentality here. Ladies and gentlemen! This mentality – and that is why I put it at the beginning of my speech contribution – also continues in the Brenner-Eisenbahn-Law. Because if you look at these new provisions, you can see that it is true that public private partnership models will also be possible in the future, but that is only the sugar cast in this legal change. In reality, it is about the provisional protection of tracks. Mr Edler has already said in advance that there are so bad speculators playing around with the property. It does not, however, indicate that there has already been such a possibility of provisional protection before, but that (a) in the foreseeable future the trail must be ordered, and (b) structural names must be feared. This part has been deleted. This means that in the foreseeable future there will be no provision for a route and that no structural measures need to be feared, it will be possible for the Minister of Transport's regulations to be implemented in order to ensure the safe use of land, i.e. land use. There will, of course, be tensions in connection with projects by Mr Farnleitner, the Federal Minister, who might want to build a road there. This is not going to happen because there is a provisional regulation for a railway route, even if it will not be built in the foreseeable time and at the end perhaps not at all, because after three years such a regulation will at least come to an end. But in addition, if a private person is to be set up there, he can be told that these structural measures which have been taken there must be reworked, at his own expense, regardless of whether or not the trail really comes or not. In this we see a tension between ownership and the freedom of ownership, which, as it has been solved here, is simply not targeting, because, without the result that the use of the area as a route actually comes into being, there are restrictions on private property, because other uses are excluded and no longer the chewing is required, that this is planned in the foreseeable future and that structural measures are also to be feared. You've deleted all of this. In fact, they give the Minister of Transport a blank check so that he can enforce whatever he or whoever is in the wake of the transport ministers in this context at the expense of all others. You have not succeeded in this consideration, and in particular not, ladies and gentlemen, because the ownership of the railway infrastructure in Austria will continue to be broken down. There will still be several societies. The ÖBB will remain a de facto monopolist in this area, and there will continue to be many opportunities for private discrimination. It is not the case, Mr Edler, that it is only a matter of the ÖBB having to prove itself in competition, but also of private railways. And there should also be more private railways in Austria, because it is true that the transport of passengers by public transport is neglected in a strong way by the public authorities. This is not only about the abolition of the mileage bank, but also about a lack of customer orientation, because one apparently believes that one can only make money in the freight sector, even with the purchase of all possible freight forwardings. The biggest sponsor in Austria is not a private person, but that is the ÖBB. We must also say that and clear out. The slogan "rail instead of traffic blinds" of course says: The ÖBB makes the track and the traffic blinds. – This is a fact in Austria, and these distortions of competition are the result of this innovation, which is You propose here today, not cleared. That is why we will not give our approval to this amendment. We are convinced that we need more competition. This will be possible only through liberalisation in rail transport. This will ultimately lead to better comfort, as shown by individual private examples across Europe, but also in Austria. We are also convinced that the structure which is responsible for the operation and the structure which deals solely with the infrastructure must be separated. It cannot be that the ÖBB will be those who alone have the saying. One needs a strong regulator, and it has to be located outside the ÖBB. Now I can give you an example of the ÖBB's customer orientation soon. If it ever happens to you that you get from the ÖBB a card for a performance that does not exist in the train, then you will experience something similar to me. In concrete terms it was with me last July that I was sold a card, but the train will be quite full. That's what I said: All right, then I'll take first grade. Then it became interesting. Because this was a special train, which only runs Koper during the holiday season, there was no first class. But I've solved a first-class ticket. So I went to work and asked: What are we doing? – He said: Don't worry, I'll confirm. Then go to the switch in Graz, where you get the too much money paid back. - It's all right, I thought, and I did it. In Graz, the man on the switch told me: I'm very sorry! We do have a computer system, but with this thing you have to go to the switch that has issued the ticket to you in Vienna. – Well, I thought, I don’t do anything either, I come back to Vienna anyway and then I go to the switch there. So in Vienna I go to the switch and say: They sold me a first-class ticket at the time, and here the creative confirmed that there was no first-class ticket on the train. – The creator was also very friendly, as all the workmen at the ÖBB are really well-trained and front-end tangible employees! So I'll go and say, Look, this is confirmed. I'd like the money back. – On that, the switch official says: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – And he picks up a drawer, pulls out a note and says: [[the speaker shall keep a form up to date]] Fill that out, then hang your card in the back, that's the request for refund, and then we'll send you the money we've got too much! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Reduce the processing fee!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That's right. It is also necessary to read the small print. There it says: Please also read the important clues on the back. And on the back side is: Important information for the refund: The price refund represents a service of the train, which cannot be handled at no cost. Please understand that these costs will be reduced by the refund. - Well, that's what I'm saying: Good night! This ÖBB will not survive the competition! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13628	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13649	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The laws and reports under discussion today take important steps to further promote rail transport. Therefore, there is funding of ÖBB's public service services through the budget, therefore there is the Private Railway Support Act, which is why the further expansion and maintenance of rail routes are regulated by the federal government and by the Rail Infrastructure Finance Act. All of this, of course, costs a lot of money. That is why it is always necessary to ask whether the relations in question are set correctly. I would like to compare this very briefly, because it is always said that there is so much money spent on expanding the roads and motorways, but so little for the railways. In the next few years, 3 billion Schillings will be available annually, but not from the budget, but from the collection of tolls and the sale of vignettes. So this is paid by the driver himself. By the middle of the next decade, however, 143 billion Schillings are available for the expansion of the railways, at least 12 billion Schillings per year. However, this expansion plan does not include important expansion projects, which are also necessary because they are largely follow-up orders, such as the new construction of the West Railway line between Vienna and St. Pölten, the Koralmbahn or the extension of the Westbahn between Salzburg and Attnang-Puchheim. The Master Plan, which has been presented here, so to speak, is the follow-up to what is to come after these 143 billion schillings, calls for another 300 billion schillings over the next 20 years. So it is really, ladies and gentlemen, to ask whether what we are doing here is reasonable in terms of transport policy and whether we must not, at all, change priorities. This will not be a question we can now solve, but at least at the beginning of the next legislative period we must ask whether we have really set the transport policy priorities correctly. It is necessary to consider, in particular, whether or not Mr Firlinger has been wrong at all, whether these numerous double-tracks, which exist in the individual societies, should not in fact be eliminated, whether they should not be strongly bundled and synergies created. [[Abg. May. Firminger: Thank you!]] I am not saying that, but that is what those who work in these companies are specifically concerned with. I am not saying that everything is wrong that all this has to be combined into a society, but of course we have to consider at the beginning of the next legislative period exactly whether this wild growth, which has come about, should be continued in such a way or whether there is no concentration. In principle, we believe that the Austrian Federal Railways are on the right track. We support this development, in particular the clear operational orientation of the railway by Director-General Draxler and through his Board of Directors. This is a highly necessary development. But the success figures in the rail sector, which have always been presented here for a number of years, are only half the truth, because, ladies and gentlemen, for the public services for the infrastructure expansion of the railway, the budget and thus the taxpayers are greatly left to the vein. I don't want to say that in detail now. We pay 36 billion schillings a year for the ÖBB, in addition to these 12 billion shillings for the extension of the railways per year, and then some 570 million schillings in state subsidies under the Private Railway Support Act are added. So this is a huge sum that the State spends on the rail transport system. In the future, it will be necessary to critically question whether this money is being used properly, efficiently and nationally. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We have 17 speakers and 57 minutes!]] – Mr Klubobmann, I'm cutting up what I wanted to say now. Ladies and gentlemen! A comment on the press reports that have been made in this context, as the slogan "rail instead of traffic blinds" has already been quoted here. There was an article in the newspaper "Die Presse" entitled "The transport of goods on 25 off-roads is threatened by the recruitment": "Previously we were a supermarket where you could take everything. Now we're also a supermarket, but at the exit there's a checkout." This was said by Mr Hoser, ÖBB's Executive Director responsible for the goods sector. – That’s good and right! And he goes on to say: Many areas need to be examined as to whether the criteria for economic efficiency are met. But if these are not delivered, the slogan "rail instead of traffic blinds" is turned and the cargo is shifted to the street. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, so bad, because I think it's a bit double-duty – that's what you'll probably call it – if the Ministry of Transport has been calling a 32 million schilling expensive campaign against trucks on the road in the media for months to bring freight traffic to the rails, but at the same time let ÖBB announce that they want to hire secondary trains for freight. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a double-bedded procedure that we cannot accept in this form. I know that is explained by the fact that the ÖBB is one of the biggest tractors and allows 600 trucks to drive on the road every day. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Parnigoni and Mr Edler.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, must also be said in this context. If you already claim "rail instead of traffic blinds", you also ensure that not the opposite is made of it!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13726	Mrs. Dr. Gabriela Moser is now speaking. 3 minutes speaking time I set; You still have 10 minutes of speaking time for the entire club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13748	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great pleasure to speak after the Doyen of the Austrian motorway policy, Mr Kukacka, because he is very right in many ways. It is always the question of how to invest the most efficiently in the economy. I should like to remind you, Mr President, that I have to keep a clear eye on the economy with regard to the cost-truth account. You probably know even better than I do, because you have known and processed this metier for a long time, that the truck traffic is a highly subsidized transport, also via the budget-subsidized area of transport, and that it would be very necessary for the people to make a real cost bill once, and to charge for the truck transport, which it really costs us as a whole. I would like to see cost-truth, a very simple national accounting model. There you can check at any time that, for example – you also prefer to represent the ÖAMTC – we car drivers – I do not have a car myself, but I do occasionally – annually subsidize freight traffic on the road with 5 billion schilling. There is cross-subsidisation not only from the budget, it also exists via the passenger car traffic. And now I count this against your billions, which you so to speak represent as waste policy towards ÖBB, toward rail. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I didn't say that!]] These billions are more or less discount payments, are more or less a compensation for what has not been achieved in the field of transport policy since the period of the monarchy in Austria, are a compensation for the fact that, at last, the railway has the opportunity to recover in the infrastructure sector. I see the investment programme for the ÖBB as quite positive, but from the point of view that it is still necessary to discuss some kind of route. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Why are the secondary trains set for freight transport?]] I would like to take a critical look at this. Although I very much agree with my previous speaker, Edler, with regard to the criticism of the threat of liberalisation in the public transport sector, I must say at the same time that the ÖBB, particularly in terms of customer service and customer proximity, really goes the wrong way with the removal of the km bank and the Green Bank. This is a method of making it a nuisance to the really loyal railway customers, with those who are still operating with the ÖBB despite the somewhat declining quality offer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There you should take the Swiss road and develop a mobility card, so to speak, across the public Transport in totalAustria offers what is already going on and going on in ski lifts. I say: ÖBB, please orient yourself to the ski lifts! Mr Kukacka, please focus on the cost-effectiveness! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13805	I call Mr Hums. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13827	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When we joined the EEA and then the EU, we also redesigned the Austrian Federal Railways with the Federal Railway Act. There are many problems, but also many advantages, and so it is easy to answer what Mr Kukacka has said that the ÖBB would receive so many grants. The report on public service performance in particular adheres to EU standards, to the Federal Railway Act, and clearly states that the Federal Railways receive these amounts, not as subsidies, but for their services in favour of the commuters, the more socially weak, the weak regions and in favour of the environment, in order to bring dangerous transports to the rails. These are services paid to the Austrian Federal Railways – not as a subsidy, but in the form of a replacement of the market, because the market would not reach here, with quasi-forms of the market via the Federal Railway Law as public services. Mr Kukacka! At the time, we worked together on this formulation in the law. That's right, too. However, it is not true that the Austrian Federal Railways now benefit from the availability of 140 billion plus 300 billion Schilling for the railway infrastructure. These are dream figures which are not right at all, because that is not added, but these 300 billion for the next decades, and these 12 billion a year at that time we have even agreed in the Social Ministry with your then Minister Ditz, because at the same time it has been agreed that the road will also be expanded. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No, these are not dream numbers! You cannot dispute this, Minister, that...!]] In the railway area, this is a long-term follow-up process! Take a road map that is ten years old, and you will notice what has changed in the street area during this time! Take a railway map 100 years old! You will not find a new route, there are only routes missing. I only agree with one, Mr Kukacka, if you criticize Mr Hoser, Director of the Board of Directors – by the way, the Executive Board is not an invention from us – that he does not adhere to what the Minister of Transport wants, namely that, as all Austrians want, the traffic blinds are replaced by the environmentally friendly railway. I agree with you that if you criticize him for saying that by-cars should perhaps lose freight. One more comment: There have been no secondary trains since the Federal Railway Act. There are railways of regional importance, and we are in favour of building up passenger and freight transport on these trains in a timely and attractive manner. We agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, I will not be able to address everything in the short term of my speech. I am only glad that this report makes it clear what these benefits are paid for from the budget, not in favour of railways, not in favour of railways, but in favour of the environment and road safety. The more we can relieve these, the safer they will be. In road transport – you have to know – there are so many hidden subsidies, not only from means of taxation, which will subsidise truck drivers, but also from resources – I know from the Social Ministry – of health insurance, of accident insurance we pay twenty billions a year for uncovered accident costs in road transport. There is still a clear bill to be drawn up. Mr. Barmüller! This division, the competition with the Austrian Federal Railways in rail transport, is to be possible. Legally, everything is taken care of; only someone who wants to carry out this competition must come. However, this person is to seek new transports and not to sell lucrative freight transports from the Austrian Federal Railways, because then, if these lucrative transports are missing, there will be a lack of compensation within the Austrian Federal Railways for serving the regions as well. In one case, I am right – although I do not agree with all the accusations relating to management; I can only thank Mr. Federal Minister for his serious commitment to the development and relocation of the rails with this public economic report and with all its measures: There are errors in the management sector, in particular in passenger transport. There's really a dilettant management at work. The railers outside – and you have confirmed this – are extremely motivated, although they are permanently insecured by external new rationalisation campaigns. But only with advertising that costs a lot on television – advertising by the ÖBB, not by the Transport Minister! – with the slogan "Man rides again Bahn" you won't win a single traveler. It is really necessary to rethink. It is necessary for local and regional transport managers to be recruited in the field of transport. The board members were much more effective before the organisational reform. The fact that these reforms have been implemented without really taking account of the railways has contributed to the loss of passengers. This residue has to be recovered. With regard to criticism of the competent new Executive Director: The increase in the Executive Board was certainly a measure that did nothing out of cost. But there is now a competent board director who will come to an informal debate tomorrow at 6 p.m. – you are in agreement. I ask him to pass on the criticism that is not due to the Minister of Transport, but to the management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13868	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Mr deputies, you reported 3 minutes of time limit. Come on. Is that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13903	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The government's proposal to the High Performance Tracking Act aims to improve infrastructure in relation to rail. It is a long-term objective to bring traffic from road to rail, in particular freight transport. The same objective seems to be the common advertising campaign of the Ministry of Transport and the ÖBB. Mr Hums! It is probably not right for you to say that the ÖBB, not the Minister for Transport, is paying for this. That's not right! The cost of transport is 40 million schilling, not 32 million, as has been said here! Obviously, the fee for Roger Moore is not there yet. [[Abg. Hums: Both campaigns separated! ÖBB campaign...!]] – The ÖBB also pays the same. The fact is, Mr Federal Minister for Transport, that your advertising campaign is a clear label flaw. It is therefore a key element in the label, because there is a clear distortion of competition in favour of the largest freight forwarder in Austria. Money is placed in advertising rather than in the sensible expansion of the rail network. At the same time – you have to know – railway stations are closed, connections to various producers, to manufacturers, to works are put out of operation. In part, there is no staffing of small stations. This results in the operation of the so-called freight transport, train stations are unoccupied. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But – and that is crucial! – the ÖBB buy fleeters, buy cargo companies. The ÖBB have hundreds of trucks on the road – this is what the Minister of Transport conceals in his advertising campaign – and buy two more companies, namely "Express" and "Interfracht", via a trustee, but in the majority ownership of the Austrian Communist Party. Another purchase is planned. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's good!]] And this million-severe extension of the West Railway leads to the fact that the journey duration for the Salzburg – Vienna route is 12 minutes longer. This is an advertising campaign that leads to the diffamation of an entire profession, namely the freight forwarders and the freight forwarders. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! With this advertising campaign, you can hang on to the coat of environmental kindness, but this is due to the burden of private freight forwarders. This is a distortion of competition; what you do with taxpayers' money is a diffamation campaign. As a documentation of this protest, I may present you with a copy of a list of signatures. There are a total of 7 316 signatures of people who have spoken against this your advertising campaign. I will give you a copy of the list of signatures and I will give you a copy of the list of signatures so that this list of signatures does not slip in the basement of this House here, transmit the original to your ministry. [[the speaker gives a copy of the list of signatures to the Federal Minister sitting on the Government Bank]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13970	Mr Kurzbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e13991	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the report on the public service of both ministries in my contribution to the debate. The first is the multi-annual order framework, the period from 1995 to 1998, in which 35 million schilling was provided, and the second is the contract of benefits, which is always set for one year. In 1997, there were a total of 8.2 billion Schilling, of which 4.7 billion Schilling were made available mainly for the ecobonus. In 1999, this amount increased from 8.2 billion Schilling by 600 million Schilling to 8.8 billion Schilling. As a result of this overall funding framework, orders from ÖBB to some 8.6 billion Schilling and the private railways of 300 million Schilling per anno will of course be available in the next few years. Federal Minister! In principle, this framework agreement has proved successful in the past. But I think there are still a few points where there are demands. I would like to point out three specific points. Firstly, in the field of eco-bonus, the total amount should be brought into an comprehensible system. Secondly, the distribution of the various financial flows would be beneficial. Thirdly, in the case of combined transport, it should be ensured, in particular with regard to the extension of the east, that the necessary facilities are ultimately also available in order to enable the objective of shifting public transport from road to rail. A problem or the cracking point is, in any case, the provision of the financial resources for the payment of the benefit fee. In 1999 alone, 200 million schillings are needed compared to 1998. And if you add this sum, it'll be 1 billion schilling in the next five years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to point out that the increase in traffic in the future can only be managed if, in addition to careful planning and sensible linkage of road and rail, the appropriate financial resources are also available. As a Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, I very much welcome the recent completion of a 15 billion package between the Federal Government and the Federal Republic of Germany for the extension of the high-level road network in Lower Austria. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I should like to thank our Minister of State Farnleitner and Mr Pröll for this.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14047	Mrs Preisinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14068	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Lainzer Tunnel – the so-called Wild Swine Tunnel – is also under discussion. This is almost the link between the Westbahn, the South Railway and the Donauländdebahn – this is important for the 13. District – the existing interconnector. One can say that the construction of this tunnel is almost fixed. She'll go straight over the stage. There's nothing left to do about it. But criticism is voiced by the population and by the people who, by the way, are very critical of the construction of this tunnel. A number of points are raised, such as the fact that no escape tunnels are to be built in the tunnel tubes. ==References====External links== March this year in the French Mont-Blanc tunnel. It was really a tragic case, with 41 people killed alone. In addition, the EU Parliament calls for higher safety standards in tunnel constructions. At least we have tried to achieve that. From the Austrian point of view, however, one must say that obviously a safety concept for the construction of the Lainzer tunnel is not really present and is rather defective. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The next point I would like to mention is the exit openings at this new tunnel. The distances of 500 meters are too large, it should be more shorter distances. I have the impression that this is more of an alibi action. Furthermore, what must not be forgotten, the project has not been subject to an environmental impact assessment. It should also be noted that there was a massive rejection of this project for security reasons, through the Vienna professional fire brigade. However, I would like to take up another area, namely other projects by the population, that is alternative projects. This wants to achieve a deepening of the interconnector, which is not to be carried out as a tunnel, but it should be just a layer. In other words, the route of the already existing interconnector is lowered by a total of three to four meters, so it does not run underground. In addition, a high-performance line is to be built on the same level, which here is a four-track extension, plus the already existing interconnector track. That would be a so-called encapsulation. The cost – a fact that should perhaps not be forgotten – of extending the existing link with the additional deepening that the population and the citizens' initiative have proposed and planned could therefore be considerably lower. That would be about three to four billion. However, the cost of the tunnel, as it is built by the government, amounts to 12 billion schilling. So that's not the same thing. Finally, I would like to say the following: I myself was present in the Committee, and a resolution was adopted at the previous Committee meeting by the SPÖ and the EIAs. I quote: In determining the final route, the wishes of the population concerned were largely taken into account. - Quote. That's in itself a beautiful statement, but it's actually inconceivable. It must be imagined that there have been public hearings or building negotiations for years, and 30 oppositions have been made by the locals alone. [[Abg. Parnigoni: How many?]] - Excuse me, 300 objections. 300 oppositions! Maybe it was 299, I don't know exactly now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we are still taking out small points, namely safety, groundwater reduction, vibration, noise, vibration and sound. All these are not small things for people who live nearby. And it can be said that these objections of the population have not been taken into account by the government. So there's no closeness to citizens. God, I'm sorry! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14116	Mrs Gabriele Binder has now come to speak with a five-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14137	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to deal with the public services and the changes that have occurred. Under the title "Ecobonus", all the benefits are shared in this report, which are especially to the benefit of the commuters, the pupils, the apprentices, youth groups, families, seniors and, above all, the disabled. The aim of these support, ladies and gentlemen, is, on the one hand, to ensure a uniform and socially acceptable level and, on the other hand, to promote the aspect of environmental compatibility. Put to the point, it means: Public transport must be a leader for everyone! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] A wealth of discounts for different groups of people can still be used, such as – to list just a few – weekly tickets, environmental tickets, benefit cards, family passports and much more. The remuneration of these benefits of the ÖBB is carried out by the federal government. The social aspect and lability are also the main focus of this. In the sense of customer-friendliness, a clear, understandable overview of all offers would be desirable. However, we also know – and this has already been tailor-made today – that the ÖBB want to remove or remove some of these benefits and benefits, such as the Kilometre Bank or the Green Card. I cannot and do not want to accept a replacement-free deletion – in which I am of an opinion with some previous speakers. So far, only alleged alternative offers have been announced by the ÖBB, and I am very, very curious about these. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the train offer must also be maintained and promoted, but above all it must be coordinated. Due to the welcome increase in rail traffic, there are already bottlenecks on the west railway. Therefore, the more important and necessary is the four-track expansion of the Westbahn, which, according to my observations and information, also progress very quickly. A few more thoughts on the citizens' initiative No. 7 on the Lainzer Tunnel: This tunnel is also a part of a modern and powerful railway. There are, of course, – and this has already been done by Mrs. Preisinger – as in many other projects on this question, too, Pro and Kontras. Mr Barmüller has already pointed out that the report on this petition is accompanied by a resolution calling for more information, communication, accompanying mediation procedures, public and environmental construction supervision. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a matter of course for me! In my district, in the Mostviertel, this is a matter of course for HL-AG. In fact, the population has always been sufficiently informed about planning, operation and construction activities and has been involved in these areas. She has also been able to play an active part in this. It is a matter of course that, as I believe, can strengthen the acceptance of these projects. The overall objective of the railway must be to be efficient, customer-friendly and environmentally friendly, all in the sense of the users and our environment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14186	Mr Gaugg is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. – This does not matter, however, because the honourable Member is not in the room and his speech is thus lost. [[Abg. Scheibner: He was deleted, Mr President.]] The Federal Minister is next to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14216	Mr President. High house! First of all, I should like to make a few comments from my point of view on some of the statements made so far. One is addressed to the representatives of the liberals, in particular to Mr Firlinger: I was pleased to note that you have tabled a motion for a resolution to the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport. I only notice that the last three years seem to have passed without a trace. This is remarkable for an opposition party that thinks so much to have the finger at the pulse of time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: No polemics from the government bank!]] On the other hand, Mr Kukacka has devoted himself to the question of whether the relationship between investment in road and rail is correct. It is quite impressive, of course, for 143 billion schilling, which is being invested over the course of more than ten years, to be compared to the amount invested in a year, and that at the federal level. The comparison is not particularly serious and does not correspond to what you would otherwise do. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: 12 to 3 billion!]] We have looked at the investment figures quite closely at at least 35 years ago. If you do so – there is a study by the Economic Research Institute – then you will find that not one of the last 35 years has invested more than in the road and that in these 35 years a total of 471 billion shillings have been invested in the road and 120 billion shillings have been invested in the rail. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 1999 the first year!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: 471 billion! A whore!]] That means a ratio of 4:1! I therefore think that, at least at the moment, there is no reason to worry that the road could "hibernate". They also mentioned that the budget for these rail infrastructure investments would be left to the ground. This should also be clarified: The budget will not be used for this infrastructure investment! As you know, infrastructure investments are financed from the resources of the rail infrastructure financing company. This SCHIG collects its money on the credit market and repays it from the revenues of the rail charges. In this way, the cost of infrastructure development, which we are now moving forward, is exclusively that of those who use the railways, whether in passenger transport, or especially in freight transport. Mr Kurzbauer's concern that the introduction of this rail-use fee for the ÖBB would become increasingly difficult can also be prevented: No, it's not like that! In recent years, we have found a form of financing with the allocation of the ÖBB and the creation of the rail infrastructure financing company, which has initially introduced a flat-rate rail toad, which is actually value-secured and increases by 2 percent annually. However, it has already been converted into tonne-kilometre charges, which can, as it were, be charged in terms of performance. These charges will be calculated and applied for the first time this year. However, if you put the flat-rate amounts in relation to the actual volume of transport last year, you have to say that the ÖBB is doing a business this year, because the flattening that has been continued increases less than the tonne-kilometre output of the railway, i.e., the ÖBB actually saves something, because they pay per transported ton and kilometers less than last. I do not think we should worry too much about this. What you have to worry about is – and I can say clearly – the question of whether you can allow the ÖBB to withdraw from the route. What it really is about is to bring as much freight as possible from the road to the rails, and it is absolutely necessary that the smaller, less heavily run routes continue to be operated. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Although there are also considerations about the costs involved, and in spite of the unqualified statements made by the responsible freight director of the ÖBB, there are only two possibilities – I have said this several times here in the House – in this regard: Either the ÖBB operate this traffic itself – and we wish that the ÖBB operate this traffic – or they say they cannot afford it, then we will look for other operators. However, we will not forget the railway infrastructure, but will continue to promote environmentally friendly and sustainable freight transport. And this will also be understood by the gentlemen of the ÖBB! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last word on the statements made by Mrs Preisinger. She said, among other things, that the Wiener Feuerwehr had criticized the safety concept for the Lainzer tunnel. – Ladies and gentlemen! You are not up-to-date either, but you are not in any way up-to-date with your spokesperson, who is three years behind. My honourable Members from the Freedom Party! You know, at least since the meeting of the Committee on Transport, in which we have discussed this very thoroughly, that the Vienna fire brigade has developed the safety concept for the Lainzer tunnel in very close cooperation with HL-AG and therefore it does not criticise it, but carries it to its fullest extent. You can contact Fire Director Perner at any time, you will get the same information from him. Of course, we are committed to further developing safe, environmentally friendly transport. This is the way of the Austrian Bundesbahnen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14309	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Fink has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14334	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on the high-performance train law, because I believe that it is a step forward for Styria. The current law also allows for a more flexible approach to the future use of newly created rail infrastructure. It is now possible not to automatically hand over completed railway projects to the ÖBB, but to make use of them for third parties and thus to implement public-private partnership models. This also applies to a project that is of major importance for the Styria, namely the Güterterminal Graz-Werndorf project. After the ÖBB initially filed this project for itself, but last but not least distanced itself from it, the Styrian state government has been very committed to it. A group of Styrian entrepreneurs applied to the rail infrastructure financing company for the operation of the freight terminal. This freight terminal was transferred to HL-AG for construction by you, Mr. Minister – thank you very much for that. The SCHIG finances this project and intends to transfer the freight terminal to a private operator. For Styria, the freight terminal is an important milestone for modern infrastructure. Located about ten kilometres south of Graz, it offers considerably improved handling opportunities for the Styrian economy. This will also allow cross-border freight transport to be more processed via rail. This freight centre will be of particular importance to the automotive industry and to transport in the south-east of Europe as part of the enlargement of the EU. It is also intended to create the freight terminal around industrial plant areas. With this novel to the High Performance Tracking Act, after many years of delay, a modern and targeted transport project for the Styria is finally possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14374	Mr Laber, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14422	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address the private railway support law in my speech. I believe that this law, in the present version, is merely an extension of the Provisional Committee, because the old law is at 31. On 1 December 1998, the law to be adopted here will expire. In January 1999 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Unfortunately, the basic problem of this funding instrument, the more or less arbitrary equipment of entrepreneurs with funds, especially in the field of investment support, is also being continued. I've been dealing with this law a little bit more precisely and I've been trying to figure out some things. The basic question is what promotion criteria exist at all, because the poorest private trains get the least money, the richest private railways get the most money! Mr Parnigoni! I have calculated this and can also prove it because of the supported train kilometres, although it is already calculated that the value of the individual tracks is at all different. For example, when comparing the Linz local railway with the local railway Salzburg-Lamprechtshausen, the fundamental difference lies in the support of the Linz local railway with a length of 60 kilometres with 15 million Schilling, the local railway Salzburg-Lamprechtshausen with a length of 25 kilometres with 29 million intervention funding. That means that the Linz local railway is being promoted at around 250,000 s per kilometer, contrary to the Salzburg local railway with 1.96 million schilling! There are, of course, enough funding. I've worked this out on the tracks, which is not difficult because of the budget. I am particularly aware that there is also a difference within the Styria, because the railway kilometres of the Graz-Köflach-Eisenbahn are supported, for example, by 2.54 million schilling, those other parts of the Styrian Landesbahn with 100 000 S. That means that the one runway is supported by 25 times higher than... [[Abg. Parnigoni: Excuse me, an intermediate call: It may also be about how often you drive this train!]] Mr Parnigoni! They've been listening. I have said that there will probably be a difference in the assessment, that is clear. However, this difference cannot be so great that a railway around 25 times higher than another railway is promoted. It is precisely about the allocation of this funding, and that is why I would like to make a request. Mr President. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it must be referred to in this motion for a resolution "the Federal Minister for Science and Transport" and not "the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport". . The same applies to the motion for a resolution that was tabled earlier. Our request is therefore: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope that this proposal will also be supported by the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14479	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Seidinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14503	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The corrections that have been necessary for some clarifications have already been made by the Federal Minister for Transport. I think it is necessary to express clearly and clearly the differences in financing in recent years and decades between road construction on the one hand and rail and rail on the other. If the ratio is 4:1, it casts a significant light on what one has put on and what one did not want to look at. A few comments on HL-AG and the present law will make some changes. I think we can congratulate HL-AG on its ten-year anniversary. It should be noted that the HL-AG started a trend change after decades of the closure of railway tracks, the reconstruction of tracks and the like, or even the closure of railways. This trend change has also been characterised by the fact that since 1994 58.9 kilometres of new construction lines built by HL-AG could be transferred to traffic and another 70.2 kilometres are under construction. That too should be held once again. The HL-AG will continue to carry out many tasks in the future. I think there are ways of reducing the relatively long procedures with this novice, to define the freedom of land required for the railway by regulation in order to combat speculation and also to give the communities the opportunity to take precautions in this regard. As the topic of Brenner AG is also on the agenda: We can say that, in future, both could participate in a European Economic Interests Association, the EEIG, or in other European societies, if this is appropriate for the tasks entrusted to them. For the Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft, this last point is particularly important if a European Economic Interest Association becomes active for the entire international Brenner railway axis. Occasionally, a discussion is also being held about why one operates several societies. First to HL-AG. I believe that the management of the railways and the maintenance of the ÖBB is a daily business which leaves little room for strategic and forward-looking infrastructure projects; the concern of daily transport handling is in the foreground. It was therefore necessary to set up a society, which has proved in the past that these long-term plans can take over long-term buildings. The financing is provided by the Rail Infrastructure Financing Act. We also believe that this amendment will help to take account of our demand for more traffic on the road and less on the road. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14555	The next speaker is Mr Stampler. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14577	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on Question No 24 and on the citizens' initiative No 7, after we had already had the pleasure of dealing with these two entries in the Committee on Petitions. The petition number 24 is against an increase in tariffs in the East Region Transport Association. The bringer of this petition is no longer among us today, it was Mr Rosenstingl. In the meantime, he doesn't drive the bus anymore, nor does he by train. [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: With the ship!]] However, if today's press releases are to be believed, Mr. Rosenstingl will soon be back in Austria – and perhaps he will need this favourable tariff in the East Region Transport Association. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Tychtl: But it's not true for the plane!]] I have read with surprise that the Federal Government will pay 50 per cent exclusively to the East Region Transport Association, and 33 per cent will be covered by the other associations in the federal states. – In principle, I believe that transport associations are necessary; they open up large-scale areas and thus reduce individual traffic. The departure times can be better coordinated, and this does not lead to unnecessary double conductivity. Since the beginning of this year, a new tariff model has already been applied in the Eastern Region Transport Association and as the opinions on this petition have been almost exclusively negative, this petition is rejected by the ÖVP. I do not think it is necessary for this to be dealt with further. Just a short while to the Lainzer Tunnel. National Council and Federal Ministers take the interests of citizens very seriously. In mediation procedures, it will be possible for citizens to respond fully to their concerns and I am convinced that the interests of citizens are respected by all. It should also be noted that an EIA is not necessary in this case. It was important, however, that a motion for a resolution lays down that the Austrian laws and the EU directives are properly respected, taking into account the protection of local people at all times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[20:25]] President MMag. Dr Willi Brauneder: The next speaker is Mr Wallner. 4 minutes of voluntary redundancies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14640	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on the general economic services of the Federal Government. The ÖBB Act provides that these must be ordered. These are benefits which are not only to be assessed according to commercial principles due to certain backgrounds, as the report by the Federal Minister of State also shows. However, the following is very important politically: If the Federation did not carry these benefits financially, this would lead to major disadvantages for certain groups of the population and in certain regions. In this context, I may mention the seniors, the pupils, the apprentices and, above all, the professional commuters. That is why the legislator is particularly required, and it must also be our political will that there should continue to be a remuneration of public services. As a Social Democratic, I would also like to highlight the situation of professional commuters, who often have to take very wide paths to the respective profession. For them, this report is particularly important for them. I should like to point out that there is a constant need for such rules as to ensure that the timetables are coordinated in such a way that the distance and return routes are as short as possible and for this reason there is a slight loss of leisure time as possible. In this context, I would like to thank the legal representation of workers, the AK, for holding so-called roadmap conferences in order to take particular account of the needs of professional commuters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The appointment of certain transport services, i.e. this public service by the Federal Government, is particularly important in terms of the right of opportunity for thousands of people in certain regions, both social and economic, as I have already mentioned. It also highlights the need to secure the supply of transport in order to force our politically wanted change from individual transport to public transport. It is therefore extremely welcome that some federal states have already entered into so-called performance contracts with the ÖBB. They have been helped by a parliamentary decision, which we have taken here, which has led to an increase in the tax on mineral oils. These resources should, of course, be used to expand the transport infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, as a representative of the Obersteiermark, I would like to say that I am particularly pleased that this service contract has also provided the Leoben-Vordernberg railway line with a long-term guarantee. Finally, I would like to ask the Federal Minister not only to provide this contractual safeguards, but also to set out measures that would lead to the attracting of this railway line. Then more people would also accept this public offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14702	The next speaker is Mrs Horngacher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14723	Mr President. Minister! High house! We now decide on the amendment to the High Performance Track Act and the Federal Law establishing a "Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft". In the case of private participation in high-performance rail lines, social policies are set; this innovation will enable the imposition of a provisional safeguard in the likely dispute at the beginning of the race regulation procedure. With the amendment to the Federal Law establishing a "Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft" (Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft), the cooperation with Italy required for the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel is possible, and this is very important for us. Last Thursday, in Radfeld, the attack for the first exploration tunnel tunnels took place, for the access to the Brenner base tunnel. For us people living in the Tiroler Unterland, this is a big and important step. The EU's traffic flows are largely channeled by this needle tube of Tyrol and Brenner. [[The speaker holds a relief card from Tyrol.]] If you look at this map, you can see the Alpine arc here; the entire route leads through this Alpine arc. There, despite noise and noise pollution, in spite of noise protection walls and even in the face of fluster asphalts, the road has taken on dimensions that are considered to be unreasonable by the population. The actual load is also much stronger due to the narrowness of the valley and the echo effect of the mountains. The motorway built in 1970 is hardly yet able to cope with the entire traffic. The formation of citizens' initiatives and the holding of demonstrations are becoming increasingly evident that the burden limit has been reached there and that this is no longer accepted. However, according to the Bavarian transport minister Wisheu, there is still an increase in traffic on this route. The traffic from Berlin, Erlangen and Munich via Inntal and Brenner to Verona will still increase significantly. Therefore, for us: Good things on the track and the track under the earth, as far as this goes! Now we hope for a rapid start of construction and speedy execution – not only of the underground line, but also of the Brenner base tunnel – so that this problem can also be solved. It's a big project. However, Zauerer has never solved problems, but we have to tackle them. That is what we wish for from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14772	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. No final word was requested by the rapporteur. We are entering the voting procedure, and I would ask you to take the places. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1644 of the supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to agree to the draft law at third reading, I would also ask for a similar sign. – This is also done by the majority. I note that the draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Firlinger and comrades on the creation of a single rail infrastructure company. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1733 of the Supplements. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you want to give the draft law the approval at third reading, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This too is done unanimously. I notice: The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lammer and Mr Comrades on the objective of promoting private railways. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of this report III-162 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the Committee on Transport's request to take note of its report in 1685. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1690. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The resolution is therefore adopted. (E 173.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution 849/A (E) by Mrs Ing. Walter Meischberger and comrades concerning Brennermaut (1686 of the supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Wolfgang Nußbaumer and comrades on protection Total Austria before transit (1687 of the supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Walter Meischberger and comrades concerning "Maut-stretching" from Schönberg to Kufstein (1688 of the supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution (Doc. Wolfgang Nußbaumer and comrades concerning weekend and holiday ban (1689 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14958	I now call points 10 to 13 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore entering the debate. The first speaker mentioned is Mr. Ing. Nut trees. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e14985	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since this meeting of the Committee on Transport, I have not really understood why you have tabled the resolutions we have put forward and are now discussing them. I ask you: Why Decline Do you make a motion for a resolution concerning Brennermaut, which prevents an EU complaint to reduce Brennermaut and means that people and nature are protected throughout the transit route? Why Decline That request was rejected, which contained a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lucisch and Mr Niederweisser on 17 February. In July 1998, on the construction of housings and roadways, it was accepted by all parties on the occasion of an ÖVP emergency, but has never been implemented by the government? Kurios is also the rejection of our request concerning "maut-streching" from Schönberg to Kufstein. That would be an attack on the economy of Austria west of the Brennerbahn! But it is obvious that you will now see how valuable it would have been for you to agree to this request or for these two requests. Because suddenly I read in an APA issue of today: "Tyrol does not want to implement December's transport compromise. Austria proposes 6 euros lower Brennermaut." [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this I also read: "Austria will propose next week, according to the spokesman of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that the EU Commission reduce the toll on the Brenner by 6 euros in order to bring down the EU Commission's complaint. However, the Brussels Authority does not show a willingness to meet Austria." But not only does the Brussels authority show no willingness, even SPÖ member Swoboda says: "For transport policy spokesperson in the Swoboda European Parliament, it is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to want to escape a complaint by the European Commission for the Brennermaut by reducing the toll by 6 euros." Minister! You will probably tell us afterwards – I ask you to comment on this – what is now chordd in this coalition. I ask ÖVP if she has contacted her CDU colleague Jarzembowski. Here I read: "... that the conservative politicians in the European Parliament, first and foremost the CDU member Jarzembowski, want to cause the Commission, by request from the Transport Committee, to complain to Austria despite the compromise reached." - Anyway, I don't know about it anymore. The liberals in the European Parliament have therefore put forward a counter-proposal to prevent damage and to prevent Austria from making a mockery. This is a request, in which it says literally: "The Commission's action of 29 April 1990 The Court of Justice of the Republic of Austria is not maintained in May 1998 on account of the excessive toll rates on the Brenner track, since Austria has already negotiated, in agreement with the Commission, the conditions under which the action is to be withdrawn." Now when I read these messages about the hack between SPÖ and ÖVP, I ask: Mr. Minister, what is this compromise? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also do not understand why you reject another request to protect the whole of Austria from transit traffic. The application lays down that foreign trucks do not contribute to Austrian value added but do much to pollution in Austria. The only conclusion I draw from it is: SPÖ and ÖVP do not want to protect against increased transit traffic of trucks that do not comply with Austrian standards. Fourth – and not least –: Why have you so far been opposed to the liberal application, which does not want anything but to anchor the current weekend and holiday ban at European level and not to put it out of force or abandon it by other EU decisions? – But apparently a late realization is also a knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Your today's attempt to repair your behavior does not change the whole thing. The rejection of the four requests for freedom in the Committee reveals you – also as a Member – as a supporter of a policy that does not take into account Austria's interests, which excludes those who do not want to co-operate and who also does not want to make bridges, if it is exclusively in the Austrian interests. They do not make policy in the interests of people and nature, nor in the interests of economics and jobs! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I did not understand your position in this direction, at least until the joint request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15068	Mr Parnigoni is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15090	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! Mr President. Let me make a few comments on these requests. First of all, I would like to say that the Council of Ministers of the EU of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, of the 1st. In spite of all this, December 1998 was a milestone in European transport policy. It is quite a success for Austria, which has come out as a result, because at last we have been able to relocate 200 000 detours per year from Brenner to Switzerland. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] In this compromise, Mr Lukesch, the solution to the Brennermaut complaint has, of course, been included and agreed with the Member States. It was recognized the special role of the Alpine transit, the second was made more or less possible for the Kufstein – Brenner toll of 84 ECU, and it was made possible to split the toll into day and night toll, with the night toll 100 percent higher than the day toll. I think it is necessary to thank the Federal Minister for making a position possible. High house! However, it is unbearable for me that, although the government has been taking decisions for months that de facto demand truck-road pricing, the head of state of Tirol Weingartner is in a position which, in fact, does not seem to be in line with the federal policy, which in fact threatens the compromise reached with the EU and thus takes a lot into account. The fact is that the EU demands a toll in the sub-individual, which does not discriminate. For the second... [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: That discriminates against the economy! You have to take note of that!]] The non-discriminatory – that is a fact! [[Abg. Ing. Nutsbaumer: This is such a burden on the economy that it is facing competition problems! You have to take note of that!]] Mr Nußbaumer, I would like to make a proposal. Let me finally put forward an argument. Wait a minute, there's a lot more coming, listen to me! Secondly, the Federal Road Finance Act clearly states that it has been since 1. In 1998, a truck-road pricing had to be given. If, therefore, Landeshuptmann Weingartner repeatedly announces that he will not grant permits for the construction of toll stations in the Unterinntal and that he refuses to do so, then if Austria were to be condemned and if it were to develop billions of demands to think about how to deal with the question of organ liability. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Did you talk to Herbert Prock about this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! A head of state has federal laws to comply with and also has to implement them. The Federal Road Finance Act clearly states that truck-road pricing with 1. In 1998, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the But I am on the demand of the Tyrolean countryside, Mr Lukesch! I agree that a truck-road pricing should be introduced throughout Austria. That is clearly what Mr Farnleitner is calling for. He can help state captain Weingartner out of the patch. He's supposed to do what's in the law, and that's all of a sudden! We from SPÖ prefer truck-road pricing today than tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know very well that 30 percent of trucks – that is foreign trucks – do not pay for them to drive on the high-level road network. This is a real distortion of competition, ladies and gentlemen. This is a disadvantage to the Austrian fishermen you will have to answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: The Western Austrian economy has problems with it! You have to take note of that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite clear that the truck toll could be introduced very easily – with a transitional arrangement, if it is also introduced manually, if the procedure is handled very quickly – in mid-2000. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: On the Southfare!]] I would like to appeal urgently to the Minister that he finally leaves the necessary tolls regulation and adjusts the appropriate timetables. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Farnleitner must also be taken into account because, despite the decision in the Council of Ministers, the EU negotiations would have to take place until now – I have now made your statement that there seems to be at least some idea of how the discussion should take place – the EU has not yet been negotiated. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to agree on the Committee and will be adopting a resolution here. We are in a race with the time we have to win against the EU Commission. Finally, the objective must be to prevent and prevent an ECJ judgment. High house! Mr Farnleitner's rapid negotiations are necessary. From the SPÖ he will receive every support to be successful there. I would like to make a request concerning the weekend ban. [[Quoted print version removed]] We have no problem at all with this, Mr Nußbaumer, that the Freedom Party joins this request and sees it as a joint action of the House. [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: You could have joined this already in June last year!]] Mr Nußbaumer! They cannot therefore claim that we are demarcating the Freedom Party. The fact is that we are working politically for Austria and for no one else. [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: If it always takes so long until you get there, you are not competitive!]] Allow me a few more sentences. The workplace street, which refers to this resolution, is, of course, something that we must have in mind very carefully, because the social provisions and controls in this area deserve our particular attention. It is about the health and quality of life of the arrainers and the road users, in particular but of the professional drivers. We know that a truck is at least involved in more than 50 percent of all accidents in the high-level road network. We know that many labour standards will be broken down. The maximum working time limit is constantly exceeded. It is continuously non-permissible in the form of accord-like wage systems. Overtime is paid out in a form that is not correct. The tachometer is usually manipulated to make working time control impossible. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore propose that we understand the need to introduce a professional driver Ombudsman to ensure that existing laws are complied with, maintaining contacts with the labour inspectorate and ensuring that companies are penalised accordingly. For it cannot be said that a handlebar that is forced to violate provisions is still being punished, but that the businessman who takes profit from these measures must also be held responsible! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that you will join our motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15250	The motion for a resolution just read by Mrs Parnigoni, Dr. Lucisch and Mr Mag. Firlinger has been properly introduced, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Haller has now been reported to speak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15274	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The hypocrisy and incomprehensibleness of the government’s argument is becoming ever greater – hopefully, but also more transparent for the citizen! – this is evident, for example, on today’s topics such as NATO, High-performance trains AG or transit traffic with its regulars such as toll, truck night travel ban and holiday driving bans. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My home country Tirol is particularly affected by transit traffic. The predecessor of this coalition government has already sold Tyrol with the transit agreement to the EU. We liberals already warned at the time, and we got right! Last but not least, the very latest "ecoscience" study from Switzerland gave us a right. The pollutant load in the Tyrolean underground has increased to the limit of loadability. It means that thicker air exists than in the Ruhr area. However, this government – both red and black – is always trying to malign! The promised shift from road to rail has not taken place to this day, and this tunnel in the Unterinntal will not be useful either, dear Kathi Horngacher! "Our" – under quotation marks – the head of the state of Tyrol has disappeared over the country elections with the toll-house prevention tactics. This is the only point in which I am right, Mr Parnigoni, and I would like to say that I am unable to give my colleagues Parnigoni, who is always distinguished by the fact that he is particularly "charming" to women, such as today to our fellow Members. This is precisely where the gap between ÖVP and SPÖ in this government is increasing. And it is really incomprehensible – as my previous speaker Nutsbaumer has already said – that in these matters people are always rejected as strongly-related matters as Brennermaut, protection of Austria from transit traffic, "tout-stretching" or weekend and holiday bans for freedom of movement, but which are then almost identical to words as resolutions of the government parties. For example, in the urgent request of the ÖVP from 17th century. Our motion 849/A (E), which is still under debate today, was tabled by the ÖVP on July 8. I would also like to remind you of this soft wording of the joint resolution of the Coalition of 18. On 12 March 1999 the Council adopted a resolution on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of equal treatment for men and women. And last but not least, the weekend and holiday ban: You have rejected our request, and I had to let Mr Niederwieser tell me about the press that this is a flower. – But now it’s not a flower anymore! It seems that Mr Niederweiser has also pointed out that this is not from the table that this will be an issue in the European Parliament this spring and that Europe-wide harmonisation would mean a levelling down and an additional burden on the people of Tyrol. That is why I am saying today that it is at least one step in the right direction that you have included us in this motion for a resolution. It is a step in the right direction, but it is still far too little, Mr Parnigoni! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this area, ÖVP and SPÖ must really try to become more credible and act and not just speak in the sense and in favour of the Austrian and Tyrolean people!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15333	Mr Dr. Lukesch has also been mentioned in the debate. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15351	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr President, I hope that I will not condemn Mrs Haller's hypocrisy and that you will not give me a call for order if I ask her to speak knowingly or ignorantly of the untruth. Mrs Haller must know the last transport report of the country of Tyrol – and do not have to quote any Swiss eco-institution! – which contains a current line of NOX emissions between 1982 and 1998 with significant reductions, despite the unfortunately increased heavy-duty truck traffic. – That’s the truth! So stick to the truth, and don't panic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have much time. Mr Nußbaumer! I would also have liked to deal with the requests made by Mr Meischberger, the former transport speaker. I assume that Meischberger shows a certain awareness of the problem. However, it does not have to offer any solutions against the FPÖ announcements. On the contrary: He himself has become the problem of his party – how apparently all the speakers of the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Nut trees.]] First Rosenstingl and now Meischberger: I do not wish colleagues Firlinger the fate of free movement speakers in recent years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] A word on Mr Parnigoni's comments. Mr Parnigoni, in particular respect for decisions on road pricing and possible tolls by the European Union: You will not be able to convince the people of Tyrol that an additional toll must be removed in the Inn Valley, whereas on the southern crossing of Vienna no tolls may be lifted with perhaps ten times more traffic! – That’s my opinion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By the way, this opinion also shares your party colleague, Landeshuptmann Deputy, Prock, in the government agreement between the Tyrolean People's Party and the SPÖ Tirol! You should have more respect for your country politicians!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15418	Mr Blünegger has now been reported on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15436	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! After hearing Mr Lukesch say something to his coalition partner, I must say that he really has acting skills. He will probably be able to use it later if he no longer has the mandate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is significant to me that a request from the liberals, who were initially rejected by the coalition, will then be written off. This was done, among other things, at the request of the liberals with No 849/A (E). [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Mr. Khol! It's not beardy what you're saying now! It would be better if you would first agree to our requests and then realize them! But you don't have time to do that, because the situation of Tyrol slips away anyway! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now, of course, I can tell you as a liberal: We liberals are the only ones in Tyrol who don't think the "tout-stretching" is right! But what do the ÖVP and SPÖ and their representatives in Tyrol do primarily? – This is, of course, the double mortality of those Members of Tyrol: They speak big here, but in Tyrol they act differently. This proves again how important it is to take transport policy in Tyrol! Because what did you do? – SPÖ has already begun to fail at EU negotiations. At that time, ÖVP's head of state was best: He went to Vienna, then went back and said he didn't do anything. At first he spit great tones in Tyrol. - That's the first one. Secondly, The failure in the transit and toll question lies purely in the field of ÖVP and SPÖ. Thirdly, I heard today when I listened to you, Mr Lukesch, how you are defending the failure of transport policy. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What?]] They defend your country captain, who is really – and that is modest if I say so! – to prevent "tout-stretching" with the toll houses. Of course, the population is also beginning to laugh! But you will certainly know that! We Liberals therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is our proposal, which I naturally hope the Coalition Government will agree to, so that two or three ministries do not have to take decisions over and over again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why I would like to return to the address of the Tyrolean members of the ÖVP – the Social Democratic Group is already so small in Tyrol that we will probably overtake them next time – a message: You have shown your behavior and your betrayal of the Tyrolean interests, among other things, in the toll question. You have shown that perfectly! But this will also have a replay. I'm looking forward to the National Council election campaign with you! The voters will make the decision!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15514	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15538	Mr President. High house! I am following Mr Nußbaumer's request, which has once again asked what it is about the Brennermaut. Deputies! I have also been allowed to explain it to you occasionally. But I like to do it again and again, because this is obviously a question that can be answered again and again, but never comes. So to make it clear again: What I have negotiated and achieved in Brussels is a clarification of the conditions under which the European Commission is prepared to withdraw the action against Austria. The condition is that the toll on the line through Tyrol is not generally higher than ECU 84. This objective is achieved by reducing the toll by 6 ECU, namely the StraBA. However, it is not only about the sum, but also about compliance with the Road Costs Directive. The Road Costs Directive... [[Abg. Ing. Nutbaumer: But the reduction was not in discussion before!]] She was in discussion! It's part of the agreement. You can calculate it. If you look at today's toll and calculate the StraBA plus the toll over the burner heel, then you can determine the amount yourself! [[Abg. Ing. Nut trees: Why does Swoboda say: Incomprehensible and unacceptable?]] You should hear the whole answer, then you could better understand Swoboda! To say it again: Today, an average toll of ECU 6 is lifted, which is higher than the ECU 84 which the Commission considers may be withdrawn on average. If only 84 ECU, but in accordance with the Road Costs Directive, are repealed, the Commission is prepared to withdraw the action. The problem is that the Commission is of the opinion that the directive is not being repealed today, even though it is ECU 84, because the cost of road construction, maintenance and operation is important for how much to recover. The ECU 84 refers to the line from Kufstein to the state border on the Brenner. That's the problem. The European Commission considers that the section from Innsbruck to Brennersee is not worth ECU 84. And this is the problem that Mr Farnleitner will negotiate in the talks and will probably solve. On the other hand, it is not necessary to make a decision by the Federal Government in order to make this clear, but it is sufficient for the existing competence to be fully satisfied by the Federal Ministry Act. That is why Mr Farnleitner will also be negotiating this issue with the European Commission. There are solutions that create the complaint from the table. They do not correspond to the wishes of the Tyrolean countryside, I admit that already. But the problem is solvable. Second point: Mrs Haller said: The relocation does not take place, it has not occurred, and it will not take place through tunnel construction. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You're right! As long as transport on the road is as cheap as today, it will not take place, because the freighters can expect! The freighters know that it is cheaper to drive on this road than to shift to the rail. Even if we take advantage of all the possibilities of rationalization on the track, the fact remains that, although there is a toll on the track, no one here in the House has particularly affected, but not on the road. This division of the Austrian economic area obviously does not offend you from the liberals either! The other fact that, at all events, a toll would be required in Tyrol, which is otherwise not required, is supposedly a constitutional problem. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Sure!]] I cannot entirely agree with this view. Neither you, Mr Luke, nor you, nor you, simply because there are tolls in Austria and there, which are being removed and the parts of Austria are separated, without any constitutional problem. Especially in Tyrol, it's one. This argument is a little surprising. What is needed to really move forward is not only a competitive track – it is now quite good on the road – but also a fair cost charge on the road. And as long as we don't have that, the shift will not take place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As long as the same people who complain that the relocation is not taking place are opposed to a fair cost charge taking place on the road, I think: This is not a particularly good testimony to credible political reasoning! Let me say one last thing, because Mr Lucisch has so markedly pointed out that the SPÖ head of state of Tyrol has also gone on to the line which the head of state of Tyrol already represents. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But not to discriminate! He's also a Tyrolean!]] Mr Lukesch! In this case it would in itself be appropriate to say: It is also not particularly good for politics as a whole, when local authorities which are not responsible for something are particularly active in the good and the good, and another local authority responsible for something to play in the black Peter. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Federation never does that, gel Caspar?]] This is also not a very good service to the colleague Farnleitner. I think it would be good for politics and political culture if one did not play this kind of game. The two parties who have concluded a government agreement in Tyrol have taken a very attractive position in full awareness of the fact that they have no independent competence on this issue. This is relatively simple, but it is not rare, and I think we should not take it as an example.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15633	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15657	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a moral image to experience here! It's about who's shooting the black Peter. Federal Minister! I missed something in your list: Was it not even a unanimous decision by the Tyrolean state government that it agreed to the "tout-stretching"? This must have been at some point at the beginning when, apparently, for constructive reasons – and not for discrimination against the Tyroleans at the time – one felt that one was in favour of a "storage-stretching". The reasons for the change of opinion are not quite understandable to this day. Politically, it's clear. Mr Lukesch! I think it is interesting if I hear you say to Mr Parnigoni that you do not understand that there is no toll on the south-east tangent, where ten times as much traffic is in Tyrol. I think that's interesting! Because of this, of course, you also say that the transport load here is a tenfold higher. It is also clear that much of what has also been played in connection with country elections in Tyrol – "Tyrol the Tyroleans!" and this mentality – which seems to have also been politically shaken up. For if the ecological components and the burden on the population are the essential argument, then we would have to consider how we can take the truck transport from the road across the street. And for this purpose, only an ecological tax reform is aimed at what you already know in the National Environmental Plan, but simply do not implement! I really need to smile when you make the coalition here and say that you have passed a law regarding road pricing, with 1. January 1998 entered into force, and this law will not be unlawfully implemented by one of your party's Federal Ministers, because it would harm your own clientele! That's what hits the barrel! It would be inconceivable that on other questions such a thing should be taken up: There is a valid law in force, but it will not be implemented, not because of any major technical obstacles, but because you simply do not want to do so politically! This is the crux of the overall transport policy: It is not objective and not based on a comprehensive solution. And that is why these discussions are about small routes and one does not even have the fairness to say: If truck transport is a problem for us because it is a burden on the environment and a burden on the passengers, then we must find a solution, for example in Tyrol, for the entire route. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: But not only in Tirol!]] Of course not alone in Tyrol! Mr deputies, why don't you make the big solution? Mr Lukesch! Why Speak You're not for the ecological tax reform? Why Speak Not for a differentiated car tax? Why Speak Are you not responsible for charging accident costs, for example, in the insurance sector? Why Meet Are you not taking these measures? Why don't you talk about that? Sage She's not here now, is she? We need a comprehensive solution, that's why we're against the little ones! But you're not for the little ones either, because there's no big one yet and you're not doing anything! But if you don't want to do anything, you don't have to sit here! You can't do anything. You can do that outside. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is why I think it is a failure, but to which it is already on 18 November. This House came in November when it rejected the motion for a resolution on the creation of a single Ministry of Infrastructure at the time. It would be necessary to create the framework conditions for infrastructure in Austria as a whole and not separately for the railways and for the road and, if it happens, against each other. This would be an area which, in addition to pipelines, in addition to telecommunications, apart from electricity supplies, should be regulated uniformly, because it is important for the whole economy. That was a failure! However, the fact that we are going to take note of the negative report on the Brenner-Maut, which has been so criticised by Mr Nußbaumer, has the reason that the motion for a resolution concerning Brenner-Maut is based on the following words: If the European Union does not accept the existing distribution of the toll in Austria, then we will make it clear to the burner with a new route and houses and, if necessary, under tunnels and crossroads, that there can be a very high toll. It seems that Mr Nußbaumer does not understand that this is a high burden and that it is not useful to plan billions just from a point of view of justice. This warrants the rejection of this motion for a resolution by the liberals, who call themselves "Brenner-Tout", and also warrants the approval of a negative committee report. It is not a question of making a difference between "evil" foreign and "good" domestic trucks, as has already been said, but it is a matter of tackling the burden of traffic everywhere in Austria – it has already been dramatically eroded by Mr. Lukesch today that the Vienneses have to endure the tenfold load – to get a total grip on some of the sub-segments. However, this will only be possible in the sense of the National Environmental Plan, which you have also decided with your vote in this House, in the course of an environmental tax reform. As regards the motion for a resolution on transit gap, the essential thing has already been said: We think it would be useful for the Commission to finally create the conditions for the withdrawal of the Brenner-Mout complaint. In this context, the Austrian Federal Government must do something. It has apparently been sparse, as this motion for a resolution states. I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) For, ladies and gentlemen, the ban on weekend driving seems to be only interesting, and that the liberals will agree with it is also interesting. It is true, however, that there must ultimately be a harmonization in the European field. It will therefore be necessary to set a higher level for sensitive areas. However, a uniform solution must also be found in respect of weekend bans and holiday bans as a whole. This would be quite in the sense of European integration, for which the Liberals are still standing today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15699	Mrs Dr. Moser is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15717	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The discussion about the Brenner-Maut has often been a matter of concern to us. In the meantime, she resembles an egg dance or a Hornberger shooting between Farnleitner and Landeshauptmann Weingartner. We have a general approach. Road pricing should have been introduced for a long time. And this road pricing, according to the ASFINAG surveys, is designed for the various companies in Austria with 2 s per kilometre in such a way that it will hardly affect the price of the products. That is why I do not understand this discussion in Tyrol. There is no disadvantage in the economic location of Tyrol, because it will not have a strong or little impact on prices. Secondly – and this is much more important –: As the late introduction of the government road pricing, it will unfortunately not have a shift effect on the rails. – This is the sad survey result of the ASFINAG. And that's why I don't understand this debate and the "stretching" of the toll in the burner section.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15750	Mrs Tegischer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15769	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to mention the GSD study and the "Master Plan" in connection with the development of roads. With the GSD study, the design of the road network in the Donau-European area, with particular attention to Austria's economic location, a kind of action road versus rail is being operated – allow me to express my opinion. I would like to repeat what the Minister has already said: As long as the road is so cheap and attractive and continues to be expanded, the railway will not be attractive enough. In this GSD study, road construction projects with a volume of 25 billion schilling and more are mentioned. I wonder where to get this money. To road pricing again: Unfortunately, we have to note that sometimes national interests oppose or are not always in conformity with federal interests. And that's the way it is in Tyrol. But we must accept that. I would like to stress that I am not opposed to measures aimed at maintaining road safety or at improving road safety, or at detours, which relieves real traffic-related inhabitants. For me, however, discharge does not mean – and I am therefore on my core topic – that roads are partly extended to high-level transit routes or to Europe's roads. The best example – I have mentioned it several times – is in East Tyrol and concerns the Pustertal and the Drautal. Due to the expansion of bypasses, one goes more and more towards a transit route. You may remember that in plenary I have once distributed to all this folder, which concerns the fear of the Alemagna and the fear of transit traffic in East Tyrol or in upper Carinthia. I would like here a statement by Federal Minister Farnleitner in "Tyrol today" of 24. In March 1999, I mentioned this because I felt it was very cynical. I quote: "The transit opponents are panicmakers. This kind of anxiety only triggers more adrenaline in me and not even that again. Road development for trans-European networks is intended to serve the internal comfort of the Tyrolean drivers." – That’s cynicism for me! I am glad that there are many initiatives in East Tyrol that are committed vehemently and that simply act under the motto of 'transit freedom is alpine injustice'. This kind of project, of course, always suggests that the Alemagna should come through the back door. For, please, don't tell me that 128 million for a small church like Abfaltersbach should only be for the benefit of the people! No one can tell me that! The fact is, however, that the slope has to be taken away in order to make it easier for the trucks to pass through, and that this will no longer create jobs in the region, because the orders have just been sent to other companies and for a few years not a single job for East Tyrol has been created. These measures lead to a loss of quality of life for the population in the alpine region. I see here a contradiction to Minister Farnleitner's statement: "Streets are the veins of the economy, but transit routes are for me the cramps for the population and serve only for transit of goods from one conurbation center to the other." In my opinion, the process that goes in the right direction is characterised by the "Master Plan" whose objective is a sensible transport policy. However, I would also like to point out that I am incomprehensible that now the extremities of public-private enterprises are being closed. This is incomprehensible to the population and does not fit into the advertising line of the ÖBB. I would like to mention very briefly that it would be very important for me to make a forward-looking transport policy in a ministry that the infrastructure would be in one hand. I therefore plead for the combination of road and rail and possibly also science in a ministry, and – allow me to express this wish – it would, of course, be nice and right for us if it were in a social democratic hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15834	The honourable Member's head is also on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15855	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Just a short while on the theme "Maut-stretching" and Inntal- or Brenner-Tout. I am pleased about the initiative that Federal Minister Farnleitner has once again launched here, the attempt to solve this "tout-stretching" as the only way to solve the problem of Brenner-Tout, but in another way, namely by reducing the toll on the Brenner track. From the point of view of the Vorarlberg economy and also of the Tyrolean economy, the following can be clearly seen: An economic area, which, from its position, is nevertheless geographically disadvantaged by the great distance to the Vienna conurbation, cannot be taken as a result of the fact that one of its essential routes, namely that of the Unterinntal, is being lost, thus burdening the economy of Vorarlberg and Tyrol on one side to all those who would not be affected by it. One of the recently proposed employment impact assessments proposed by German chancellors would certainly not resist this measure. From the point of view of the economy of Vorarlberg and Tyrol, therefore, the measure originally envisaged is at least to be rejected, and it is all to be done, also in the sense of our motion for a resolution, which refers to Article 4 of the Constitution, namely equal treatment for all participants in our economic life, so that it is all to be done so that it does not come to the realization of this measure. There is another solution, for example, in the sense of Minister Farnleitner's advance, to seek and also to find. The approach of Mr Blünegger is also somewhat amazing. Although I can do something with the proposal that, after the national elections on a more sensible structure of the entire area of transport in the government, we should start to think about it in the short term, I am not quite clear. All in all and in the long term, however, I absolutely see this as a reasonable proposal, which has been made here by my colleague Dieter Lukesch and which I would absolutely support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e15892	There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. There is also no conclusion from the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask you to take the place for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request from the Committee on Transport to take note of its report in 1686. If you would like to take note of this report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1687. If you would like to accept this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. (E 174.) We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Nut trees and comrades with regard to the creation of a single transport ministry. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Transport to take note of its report in 1688. If you would like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report in 1689. If you would also like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. This report has also been taken note of. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Parnigoni, Dr. Lukesch, Mr Mag. Firlinger and comrades concerning weekend and holiday bans. If you would like to join this request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This sign will be issued unanimously. The request was accepted. (E 175.) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the report (III-174 of the Supplements) of the Federal Minister for Science and Transport pursuant to § 3 para. 4 Poststructural Law – PTSG 1996, BGBl. No. 201/1996, on the public service services provided by Post und Telekom Austria AG in 1997 (1734 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16012	I'm calling the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16042	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Imagine a government, a federal government appointed to any company services that are in the public interest, and these services are properly ordered. – Mr Commissioner, perhaps you could You are also considering this and listening to me with these conclusions. I think it would be interesting for you, too. So imagine, you're an entrepreneur and you get an order from the state to perform a performance. But then, when the payday is, the payer says: Yes, I'm paying for everything, but I'm not paying 400 million schilling! Why do I say that? . We have here a seemingly consensual report on public services in the field of postal services. It is three pages long, there are some figures in it, and finally it comes to the conclusion that benefits of 1.4 million schilling are rewarded – apologise: [[Abg. Parnigoni: 1.4 billion, my colleague.]] 1.4 billion – but it is actually 1.8 billion that have been attacked in this public sector, but the difference of 400 million schilling is not mentioned. Mr Federal Minister, how, for example, would you explain this to a private operator? I can give you a statement already, Minister of State: It is obvious that, after the management of the Austrian postal office has actually resisted a downturn of 400 million schillings, simply the basis of calculation, the basis of calculation is simply wrong. I think that's obvious, because: Which entrepreneur would that please? This brings us into an area that already has a certain explosive force, because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot going on in the Austrian Telekom sector, and it will be much more going on in the future. For there is a remuneration in the public sector when exemptions from the basic fee take place, and these basic fees will be increased in the future in the course of the tariff adjustment model, as it is so beautiful, but narrowed. Then there will be a redistribution, and then there will be a large broth in the public service pot again, and this share will rise in the future. I therefore believe that this basic fee has a very high fixed cost, at which the truth can be doubted very strongly, and I do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! It will be exciting on the Telekom sector, even as far as these services are concerned, because – I recall this – a 25 percent package was sold to the Italians to Telekom AG a few months ago, in autumn 1998, and a 25 percent share plus an important share in the field of mobile communications was sold to the Italians a year earlier. There have been warnings from our site whether the Telecom Italia is really the right partner. You remember that we took a few debates there, but everything has been blown into the wind, which has come up with warnings here. Now we have the salad, because Mr. Director of the Board of Directors Ditz has declared in the main committee that if Deutsche Telekom swallows the Telekom Italia, then an exit clause will be applied. . I am curious about what this exit clause looks like, because Parliament has never talked about the details of such an exit, and we can see how problematic this whole case is. So I'm excited about what's happening to us, what the solution looks like, and I'm specifically raising the demand: If this reduction in competition comes about, this concentration of companies in this sector, then the Austrian Federal Government has the damn duty to ask the post to leave this contract. If it does not, it is hoped that the competent EU authorities will intervene in the competition authority in Brussels. But if it doesn't, then everything's too late anyway, I'm saying, Good night in this sector in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16097	Mr Sigl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16119	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As can be seen from the report of the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport, a flat rate fee of 1.4 billion Schilling was paid to Post and Telekom Austria AG for the public services provided by Post and Telekom Austria AG in 1997. The postal services include the adoption, forwarding, sorting and delivery of consignments carried at the newspaper rate. The Deutsche Telekom benefits include the exemption from the payment of the basic fee of approximately 170 s plus the connection fees for one hour per month and are linked to the proof of social need. In 1997, there were around 302,000 free participants in Austria. Daily newspapers, weekly newspapers and monthly and quarterly newspapers benefit from the reduced postal tariff. For example, associations, non-profit organisations and political parties established in accordance with the 1975 Party Act are favoured by the reduced remuneration for comparable mail. Ladies and gentlemen! More recently, criticism has been made of the fact that most of the losses in the newspaper sector are caused by association newspapers and by leaves with political determination. – I cannot join this criticism. As has recently been noted, Austria is a country of the clubs. The achievements of the various associations are no longer to be thought away from our social life. For this reason, I consider the criticism of the special favour for post-trafficking associations to be essential. The criticism of the special tariffs for the leaves with political determination is equally indispensable. In a democracy, it should be possible for political actors to communicate their programmes and ideas to the public as large as possible, and this should and should not fail in the cost. I also regard the special tariffs for political journals as justified in the sense of a variety of information. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Even if it's done, Mr. Colleague?]] It won't be molted. High house! At the end of the millennium, we are facing significant changes in the telecommunications market. The liberalisation of the market will also bring substantial innovations in the field of public service. The consumer preferences of the telecommunications market have also changed significantly in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that the number of mobile users on their own is already increasing very much from day to day. For this reason, there will have to be new rules in the field of public service in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that we Social Democrats are taking note of this report and would like to point out once again the extremely important and socio-political importance of the public services provided by Post and Telekom Austria AG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16154	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16176	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwamlein, you will not believe it [[Abg. Swimmling: I believe you!]] This debate, which is about a report of at least two and a half pages, not particularly closely described, could have been avoided in the plenary if the report had been completed in committee. This is because it is sufficient for a committee communication to be given on the basis of figures. It is also just a formal communication on what it is all about. However, if this report is already put in the plenary session, it will probably be necessary in the future to mention more than just the figures on which it is concerned. In particular, as has already been tailor-made today, it will be necessary to remove the criteria under which certain payments will not be made by replacing postal services with a flat-rate fee. As long as we want to discuss such a report in the public, without revealing the criteria according to which services are recovered and what services are not recovered, and in particular what criteria one believes that the post must be streamlined in order to gain more efficiency, that will be something that, as I had to be taught in my own club session, will not be taken note of by the Lieberralen in the plenary room. That's not enough of its size. As far as handling is concerned, in particular, the economically very impulsive market in the telecommunications sector, ladies and gentlemen, it will probably also be necessary that, in Austria, for example, when awarding concessions in the field of mobile communications, at last, what is laid down in the laws. For the fact that the Ministry of Telecom is still having an influence on it and, in particular, the existing authority which has to do with it and which is actually a collegial authority with judicial intervention is only due to the party political influence in that country and it is essential that it be relinquished. In this sense, we will not take note of the report on public service, Mr Lucisch, which I would like to make bilaterally with you. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is there evidence for this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Is there evidence of these claims?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You can't just say that!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You can't make allegations here, and the evidence is kept in the silent chamber!]] It's not a claim, ladies and gentlemen! I can't just give you the evidence here, but we should talk in a committee about what the Ministry has to say to letters to the... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Say something!]] No, not something, deputies. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Some proof!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You can't just say that!]] I know that you do not want to take note of this because, in fact, it has long since become a political 'culture' in this country, that exclusions are not used to increase efficiency, but that they are usually used to cut off parliamentary control, and that in many areas we no longer have the right to interact and are not answered by questions because there is no opportunity for it. [[Abg. Marizzi: This is more private than a state!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is the liberal market economy!]] Look at this area! It is not even possible to adopt legal decisions there, for example for the D mobile radio in Austria. There was simply no legal notice, because the wrong frequencies were inside, so there was no permission to set up the transmission masts. This was then corrected by the ministry, but because one did not want to admit that it was a fault in content and then a wrong determination of the AVG was made to correct the notification, there is no valid notice yet! They're all things you're generously passing by. - But we don't let that pass us. And if there are such reports in the future, then, ladies and gentlemen, they must be more precise! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16351	Mr Fink has now been reported to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16373	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the accountable report on the public service services provided by Post and Telekom Austria AG for 1997. This report shows that the Post and Telekom Austria charged 1.9 billion schilling for the public service provided and, as has been said several times, paid by the federal government for 1.4 billion schilling. This difference of 500 million schilling is now more or less. Does this correspond to the statutory agreements, or have it not been accepted? Is it a lump sum according to the law, so it can't be anymore? Federal Minister! I believe that a different form of cost accounting needs to be found. They have already considered a change in the system on the basis of this fact, in the form of a voucher note. I think this is the right solution, because you also want to involve private operators in this voucher system, which I think is right. However, if there is no solution, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that independent institutions should be commissioned because this would save you an accusation. It could be questioned whether the flat-rate cover is justified, and it would not only be necessary for you to reconcile these amounts with the post alone. We will definitely take note of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16409	Mrs Dr. Moser has now been reported to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16430	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on the public services provided by Post and Telekom Austria AG is an opportunity for me to draw a brief interim report on the success of the "liberalisation" – under quotations – in the telecommunications sector. If you were to ask most of the Austrians, the average of the Austrian population, how liberalisation has affected them, then you would receive in answer what is stated in the report on the situation of consumers, that the situation is inconceivable, that pricing is opaque, that people can find it difficult to orientate, where it is best to call, that by increasing basic fees for the average consumer, who is mainly telephoned in the regional zone, it is a total increase in phone fees or telephone billing. But that, I say, is not the purpose of liberalisation! Liberalization is more or less affecting average telephone operators, especially the elderly, pensioners and pensioners, and certainly brings the advantage to the mobile, the economy, the companies, that is, those who have long-distance calls. Now I put on the latte of the average Austrian or the average Austrian and say: It does nothing if we now underline the public services of the post, whether by means of voucher or by means of grants from the budget, but we have to create overall framework conditions which also guarantee the liberalisation benefits to the average operator and to the average telephone operator. Liberalisation should not be at the expense of these people, it should not be at the expense of the majority of Austrians. My starting point here is that the postal service for the many public services that it is still providing and for which it receives less money, because this is the background for increasing basic fees, is paid by a compensation fund, in which the private people who are now bringing liberalisation are also paying. This would mean that there are really fair conditions of competition which would result in basic fees falling rather than rising, so that liberalisation really benefits the Austrian on average and does not lead to it being asked to pay more. We will vote in favour of this report, but our criticism of the missing direction of loverization, which does not bring anything under which people who make conventional calls, remains upright.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16471	Mr Parnigoni is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The public service services are, of course, the most important transfer of opportunities to ensure better quality of life for the disadvantaged. I may say that they are part of the social democratic policy. At the post office they account for about 2 billion schillings, where we can discuss whether the 469 million schillings are now covered by the package contract or not. In view of the fact that Telekom – Mr Moser has already mentioned it – is thinking of increasing basic fees, some political brilliance, I would like to admit. However, the public service benefits have another impact, namely on the Federal Budget: If you continue to do so with the 302,000-free participants, it will also lead to a non-indebted problem. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: To a significant increase!]] The fact is that the Telecom Act, which we have decided, will ensure new rules of competition, and this generally leads to a profound change. Ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore quite sure that we will make it possible for the services financed in the framework of public services to be provided by alternative providers, from my point of view, both in the fixed network and in the mobile sector. It must be ensured – moment, moment, may I speak on? – that nevertheless the basic fee as well as an hour of conversation fee per month are included. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Telekabel, for example, has a 50 percent lower basic fee!]] I then rely a little on competition and believe that if, for example, this will be possible with a voucher-based system, such as the Social Democrats have put into the discussion, this competition will result in perhaps one or another supplier making a more favourable offer, so that the consumer will benefit more from this level of competition. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: There we are! There we are!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: We'll be there then!]] Therefore, this is certainly not an uninteresting development, ladies and gentlemen, which we must continue to pursue in this direction. Just one sentence on the question of newspapers, because there are essentially these 400 million schillings you were looking for: Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have to come from a very simple, simple cost accounting to a performance-based billing system, which is quite clear and clear. I am convinced that we will do the same, and then there will be no problem with the next report on public service. Overall, we know that public services in rail and post are very important for people with social problems. We will work in particular to ensure that these benefits are not shortened but, on the contrary, extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16568	Mr Schwarzenberger has also been mentioned on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16586	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! According to § 3 para. 4 of the Poststructural Act, the Federal Minister for Science and Transport has to submit an annual report to the National Council on the public services provided by Post and Telekom Austria AG. Mr Barmüller! We have decided specifically in the Committee not to end this and to hold a discussion here in plenary. That is why this item on the agenda has to be discussed today. It is essential that the public services are free of charge by telephone and the non-cost newspaper transport tariffs. The report shows that there were 302 206 participants free of charge in 1997. Unfortunately, Minister has not been able to provide us with any statistics of the exempt persons. And requests to Deutsche Telekom did not give us a complete explanation either. We have only been told that about 150,000 pensioners, some 80 000 in need of care, 14 000 unemployed and 8,000 students are freed, and there are about 50 000 exemptions which are indefinable. And this is unsatisfying for us and for ourselves. In this context, it is quite clear whether or not abuse is possible. After all, it is 641 million schilling with which these exemptions must be financed. It would be more honest to say that, in the case of compensation beneficiaries, the compensation allowance would be increased in order to increase this share instead of applying for such exemptions. Because even for the application, costs of more than 14 million schilling are incurred. Or it would also be worth considering a voucher system that my colleague Fink has already suggested. Further: Some 713 million newspapers are transported by the post office. About 760 million schillings are paid for this. The post receives a little more than 1 S per newspaper, while it has costs of about 2 billion schilling. That means she's almost costing 3 s per newspaper! However, it must also be said that it would hardly be possible otherwise to carry on certain regional newspapers or smaller newspapers. In this way, the diversity of views can be supported, and this too must be a value for us in a democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16625	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16644	Mr President. High house! I must say, Mr President, that I am not in a position to speak on behalf In one point, give a hint to Schwarzenberger: You have criticized me for not being able to categorize the data for the exemption of fees in the Committee on Civil Liberties according to the different groups of persons and occasions. - That's right! These are data that you don't normally have in your head. Today, however, I have passed on these data - even after years - to the Transport Speaker of your group. I would therefore ask you to contact Mr Kukacka in this connection.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16671	Thank you very much, Minister of State. No one has been reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. Since we do not have the rapporteur's final word, we shall vote, and I therefore ask that the places be taken. We now come to the vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of this report III-174 of the supplements. If you would like to take note of this report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. I notice: The report has been taken note of. 15. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the report (III-137 of the Supplements) by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport on the social situation of students in the light of the resolution of the National Council of 13 December 1990 on the November 1997, E 91-NR/XX.GP (1510 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16720	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16748	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! We are debating today the report on the social situation of students. First of all, I would like to say quite positively that there is such a report and a comprehensive processing of data. But in fact it is not the case, as Mr Lukesch said in committee, that this report is a cause for joy because we can celebrate or debate a day of students and students. It must be noted – and this is the conclusion of this report – that the social situation of students has changed dramatically, not necessarily from the income side, because the report clearly states that only one third of students are not yet employed and can therefore be fully devoted to the study, while nearly two thirds of all students are dependent on improving their social situation with a job or by-job. Finally, it is not understood who is doing his job on the brink of legality; the number of the dark is probably even higher. All of this does not give rise to joy, especially if one compares that the situation did not look quite different 15 years ago. At least half of the students were still able to devote themselves fully to the study. This, of course, shows how the conditions have changed. The situation has changed dramatically – and this is clear from this report – through the savings package in 1995 and 1996. In this context, it is clear in absolute terms how the conditions actually are: On the one hand, more and more students are being forced into work or into jobs, on the other hand, the family allowance has been massively saved, which represents a significant income component of the students. In figures: More than 31,000 students have lost family support due to the reduction of the years through the 1995 and 1996, specifically in the 1995 savings package. This has, after all, meant a saving of 450 million schillings for the state, which until then were used as income for students. Thus, in the majority of the students today depend on taking up a profession – often or unfortunately not in the subject they are studying – in order to earn their living and to acquire as good a training as possible. We in Austria have always been committed to providing our youth with the best training from the state. However, I believe that we are increasingly going away from it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The social situation of students has not actually improved. What has improved more and more over the past month, however, is the social situation of the representatives of the students, especially the representatives of the Chamber of Austrian Higher Education. I am really sorry and sorry that, in a situation where more than 30 000 students are being removed by reducing the family allowance incomes in the order of 2 000 S to 2 500 S, on the other hand, student representatives are now given the opportunity to receive the family allowance for four semesters longer so that, in the end, a – future – political function can be maintained. I really think that's a privilege! This is untimely, for which there is no comparable case, and this ultimately means that the representation of students is obviously only taken over more then, if eventually money is also flown from the state side. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, the money does not come directly from the state side, but from the family compensation fund. The meaning and purpose of the family compensation fund is to achieve a burden compensation in the interests of the family, but it is not to bring a few political officials, in the end, two years longer, a monthly income of between 2 000 and 2 500 s. I think this shot is going back. We must make sure that justice takes place again. And if the political parties hold predisposition organisations in the person of student representatives, they should also pay them themselves, but not from the family compensation fund. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We think it is really insolent that new privileges are created at a time when we should be working to reduce political privileges, and that in the light of the ÖH election that will take place in the coming weeks. I believe that it is the duty of the hour that this House calls on the Minister to withdraw this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16831	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Graf, Dr. Krüger and colleagues, who have just been tabled, complies with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16852	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It was the Committee's wish that we should discuss this report here in plenary. At that time, however, we did not know that we would have a very busy agenda today and that we could therefore only deal with it in a stenogram style. There will be an additional version to this report, in which the empirical part will still be delivered. As I have been told, this will take some time, but until summer we will have a more detailed part. In contrast to Mr Graf, we believe that there have been improvements in recent times. You may no longer remember that we have decided to adopt a novel to the Studienförderungsgesetz, with which we have succeeded in extending the relationship and increasing the aid with which we have achieved substantial improvements with regard to aid to foreign students and with which we have introduced the insurance contribution and new degree grants. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are drops on the hot stone!]] Maybe that's too much for you to list so you don't want to deal with it and say: Nothing's improved! The opposite is the case, however: We have achieved very massive improvements with the students in this year. This is also necessary because it has an impact on study behaviour, whether students need to work, or whether they can finance their studies with the help of parents and scholarships. Two figures: Within the first ten semesters, only 87 percent of those who receive aid study in the same course of study, of those who do not have funding are 65 percent. The most important concern for the liberals today is clearly the question of the Austrian high school. ÖH elections take place. And it is interesting to hear that the liberals reject this recognition of the work of the high school representatives. This is not about any political officials! That's totally wrong! Of course, there are also some who then switch from high school to political functions. But above all, it is about the many hundreds of student representatives in the study committees, the institutes and so on, whose work is expected to be extended for the purpose of the study grant or also for the reference of the family allowance. There are still some problems, of course not everything has yet been worked out. One problem, for example, is that when a person starts studying only one or two semesters, then becomes employed and later enters another study, in this way he has lost all the claims for study funding. However, there is the very interesting model of a so-called study promotion account recently presented by VSSTÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is our educational check!]] I can no longer do this now, but I would like to say that it is worthwhile to deal with this model. In essence, it is about studying shorter time with a higher scholarship or longer time with a lower scholarship. Let me also point out a group of students for which we must do something in the near future. This group does not concern our Federal Minister for Science, but essentially the countries. In the field of postsecondary education at the medical and technical academies there are the so-called training contracts. This is an abuse that is becoming more and more pervasive. This means, in fact, that if someone wants to do a training, he must sign a contract that he will work for three years or five years in a particular federal country; otherwise he must repay an amount up to 500 000 s. – These are intolerable conditions, please! If negotiations with the countries fail to improve, it will be necessary to regulate the legislation. Our goal is to be able to study if one is able to do so if one also brings the corresponding zeal, regardless of the social origin. And the funding of studies is a good way to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16901	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Martina Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16923	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: Firstly, this report by the Federal Minister gives a very good overview of the social situation of students. I am glad that this exists as a parliamentary basis, so that we can consider further steps that students can take to improve their social network in terms of improving the situation. It is likely that you do not miss out on the Liberal Forum having a completely different access to it by demanding that students also have the basic guarantee. For so it would be possible to study completely separate from the pressure of money acquisition by work or from the pressure to hire the knife to the parents because it would cover the needs that books can be purchased or special courses can be visited. Such needs could be covered by basic security. That is why I think it is time, Mr Federal Minister, for you to consider with your colleagues in the Ministry and in your group whether this would not be a good start so that the pressure from the students is taken and the opportunity to complete their studies in a much shorter period of time. It is also quite clear that the children of workers have less opportunities to access and greater drop-out rates compared to children from other levels of income in this Republic. I believe that it should really be seen as a signal that this situation has been ignored for far too long by the Socialist Group and that there is a need for resurgence. Of course, this problem would have to be solved by means of a basic guarantee, including for families of workers and women workers who suddenly want to study three children. Then all three would have the chance to study without parents entering the Bredouille. As an intermediate step, because we know that this requires a longer preparation, I would like to make a request, which is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. I would like to remind you that I have now read the first sentence, as opposed to the last one! I believe that this would be a good and fair intermediate step towards the women and men concerned at an age where they are still vulnerable and need all the support of society. And the promotion is that they are also given the opportunity to have an additional earnings without any implications for the entire income situation per year. I regret in this context that the free movement has been removed and other restrictions on social benefits have resulted so that scholarships can be increased and their financing can be made possible. The granting of free travel would be an opportunity to meet those students who want it. Not every student takes the subway, some travel all year round by bike, and some just have to walk. But at least this would be a way of acting in the sense of those who use this transport. I feel that the fact that this report is based on the fact that access to higher education is, as it were, experiencing an explosion is a remarkable one. I'm glad! Because the colleges are obviously very practical, are also very intensive in the care and offer quite different opportunities than the other universities that are included in the entire research package. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: They are selective too!]] Of course, the selection at the beginning leads to a "student's property" being located at the colleges, which is very privileged – and to this they can still be quite sure that they will find a job right after they have graduated from their college. Some students from the legal or medical faculty who, as we know, are standing on the street or who have to drive taxis would also like this intensive care! Perhaps one should also offer a corresponding financial incentive to university teachers who are extremely interested in the care of their students. Or perhaps they could be forgiven that they do not make so many publications if, on the other hand, the assessment of students is not appropriate. But this requires great flexibility, and there are many things to talk about, for example, Pragmatization! Isn't it, Professor Lukesch? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: My application for service!]] The Pragmatization should definitely be discussed in this package. I believe that we could then come to a better performance of the students – but that is, of course, another subject. I believe that, above all, the quality of training of students at the time of their graduation is so good that they really do find jobs internationally and also in Austria. Now we see that in some fields of study the quality and attractiveness are not sufficient. And I regret this because these people have been working for four years or more, and then they can't do what they originally wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e16999	Mrs Gredler's motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Lukesch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17024	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler, there are problems in agriculture, in the labour market, in the context of unemployment; there are problems with women's incomes, with low pensioners. And for this, after the Liberal Forum, there is a single "patent solution" – now also for the problems of the students – namely basic security. – I have enormous distrust of such patent recipes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In my lectures you can hear that it is impossible if the number of instruments is smaller than the number of objectives to achieve these objectives. Then the political ability is much lower than the political will. That's what we can talk about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] The basic guarantee is certainly not a socially just instrument to get our students from lower income classes and children's families to study! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr Gredler: What else?]] You never say anything about financing such a basic guarantee! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The report on the social situation of students is discussed in terms of verbis and formal today. He has already been treated with implicity, when making a decision on the amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz and the Studienheimgesetz. Mr Niederweiser has outlined the news and the contents of this novel with the very considerable progress made in this area. Mr Graf, you are right: The total savings from the savings package have not yet arrived, but budgetary stabilisation is an objective that every population class and everyone has to make a certain contribution, including students! We are pleased that we have made such progress with regard to the promotion of studies. Mr Niederweiser, you should also say what has not been achieved, and I regret it on behalf of the students and on behalf of my group. We have tried to take into account everyday life and the reality of student life – keyword: being deserved and active – by introducing a calculation amount in the sense of a lump sum. We have tried, also the wishes of the student mothers – keyword: Karenz money for students – enforce. Unfortunately, however, we have met granite with our coalition partner with both concerns. We regret this! However, in our efforts to increase justice and also debureaucratisation and for more help, especially for women, we will not lose!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17083	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17105	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The savings or load packages have met the students disproportionately. This is clearly evident in some fields of study. I think that this trend will unfortunately be strengthened, and I regret that because the development had actually taken a right direction, because more and more young people could study from not too well-favored a parent house. In this respect, the tax packages have made a lot of return, and it would be time for a next government to take back these tax packages at the expense of the students! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A second point: In the debate on tuition fees, the family argument repeatedly comes to light. It is claimed that students still come relatively often from families where parents are financially quite well - off. – That may be already! But that's no reason to cancel tuition fees. Rather, one should reconsider the unfair tax system in which labour is discriminated against against against income from assets and capital. In this area you are required! However, you must not, on grounds such as tuition fees, correct such an uncorrectable injustice! Third point: I renew the demand from our Greens for the introduction of a basic guarantee, which would in particular benefit students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lukesch.]] Mr Lukesch, we have explained this: This can be financed. My colleague Karl Oellinger will be happy to send you this basic assurance model by us Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I don't trust him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: I don't trust him!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I cannot understand that it is sometimes so easy for companies to pay off costs to the general public by, for example, stamping all workers for a few months and creating a basic income in this way, while this is not for people in training. It would therefore be high time to offer basic guarantees, especially for stages of training, since we believe that training is one of the most important investments in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17175	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17196	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on basic security: Mrs Petrovic, if basic security is to be discussed as a model for students, I am willing to get into this discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's it!]] However, I am skeptical about basic security if the basic guarantee model is to be a general model, which has a lot to do with the principle of exodus. That's what I'm skeptical about. But if we talk about a model for students, it would be interesting to get into this discussion, not in connection with the tuition fees mentioned. And I have to protect the Minister already: I have never heard of him taking part in study fees! I am also a passionate opponent of tuition fees. I think we could open another discussion which has been held in connection with this discussion on tuition fees in different circles, which is about the idea of introducing a credit system in general, not for study fees, but for cost of living, regardless of the income situation of the parents. I think it is interesting to have a discussion about such a basic guarantee or such a credit system, in so far as it is independent of the situation of the parents and is not used to finance study fees. It is clear that tuition fees will certainly reduce access to education and the educational participation rate. I now come to the report on the social situation of students. I believe that the second report, which has been announced for June and will come into the house over the next few months, will be more interesting, because we can see it in concrete terms on figures, data and facts: How do the students live? What do they live on? How are their expenditure and revenue structures? Because it is interesting to observe – and there are already studies from Germany for example – for example: The higher the family net income, the higher the probability that there are students in this family, and the higher the numbers of students from these families. Thus, children who come from families with a family net income below 15,000 s are only 40 percent at a university, whereas children from families with higher incomes are 70 percent at universities, and social origin also plays an essential role. In this respect, a discussion on basic security in this form would be quite interesting. One more point on this report, which we have here, is the first report of this kind: An essential and striking aspect is for example the high drop-out rate of women, i.e. of students. Because it is striking that, while women make up 54 percent of the students, their share of those who do not finish their studies is higher. I believe that this can only be a small part of the question of the pension fund for students you, Mr. Lukesch, have done so because almost all the federal states are offering care for students. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Would you have done it...!]] So that can't be it. I believe that we must go deeper in research into the causes of why so many students stop studying, because, as has been said, there is this pension scheme about the countries, and that cannot be a reason for that. I believe that, in the presence of the second report, which I am already very interested in, we will have an interesting discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17248	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Speech time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17269	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The report on the social situation of students, which was completed about a year ago, foresees that at the end of 1998 we will keep in hand the continuation of this report, which describes the whole current situation. I hope, Mr Federal Minister, that you will now see this opportunity to give us a little insight into this last presentation of the current situation. This report tells us: The students of Austria have become poorer – even in this correct calculation made by Professor Lukesch –; the students in Austria have grown older – every fifth is over 31 years old; the students of Austria need longer for their studies than in the past – in a very diametric contrast to their wishes, Mr. Federal Minister! If we now believe that by easing the provisions in the field of ÖH functionaries, we will do exactly the wrong thing. Mr. Martin Graf argued perfectly. Mr Federal Minister, please save the ÖH officials of this privilege! These are not very high in the course with the students anyway. The path to the urn at the ÖH election will be even more frequent than at the last time. The students, who are forced to be successful in high school, are increasingly opposed to the ÖH – unfortunately – and they will reject it much more if only mini-privileges are now distributed for these officials. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also consider the attempt to get hold of this via a standard public transport ticket to be inappropriate and inappropriate. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] – When I hear the bell, their signs appear to me to be somewhat symbolic for this evening, which will end in such a way that the unfair distribution of the speaking times for the opposition no longer remains. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson:... in the Presidential...!]] Therefore, make the end of this day as you are used to: in large coalition embrace; You have no resistance to expect! - Nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17317	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a brief remark: The political understanding of my predecessor and his group is a bit strange, because the Rules of Procedure – point, point, point – you already know.... [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... rely on laws when it comes to justice!]] I would like to use my speaking time to point out an aspect that was also addressed by a FPÖ member who said: If we look at the report on the social situation of students, it becomes clear that more and more work is being carried out. – This is a negligent interpretation of both the tables and the interpretations themselves. What do I mean? What should we do about it? – 10 percentage points more students between the ages of 26 and 30 and 11 percentage points more students over 31 years, i.e. the age of the students has increased on average. This is usually the case with students who also work for two-thirds and who come more and more from the fields of human and cultural sciences, engineering and architectural sciences and social and economic sciences. These are, ladies and gentlemen, not only – as one could conclude due to the presentation of my colleague Graf – lazy guys, late hit by the mind flash or "expressed" and so on, but these are students, both male and female, who combine study with a systematic professional activity. But there is now a little lack of the statistical material, the statistical instrument to be able to capture part-time students as well and not to throw them into the "pot" of those who need over-long study periods for other reasons. This is already an interpretation of the report on the social situation, which we must make carefully enough. It is not a question of simply saying – as I heard from you – that the students would be forced into work. In this respect, there is a need to rethink a thought process. In addition to this, it must also be borne in mind that the supply schools are more and more the middle and higher schools and that, therefore, students are also much more systematically confronted with future employment and work, not just black work, but also work on it, or take on Ferialjobs of any kind or otherwise, but are in fact preparing themselves for study and for the next job. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that in November 1998 we adopted a resolution calling on the Federal Government to present, by the end of 1999, proposals for the creation of part-time studies, including those concerning legal, social and labour law, so that the implications can be read out of them. I recall this resolution and found the report on the social situation of students to be very informative and helpful to me for further work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17374	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17395	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In a single point, I agree with Mr Graf: It is good that this report is available, and it is good that there is this report. We can also read a lot of positive things from this, and I have read it out more than you, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 31-year-old students!]] Of course, we take note - Mrs Brinek has now made this quite clear - that there are also people who previously enter a profession and begin to study only later. There will certainly also be one or the other, who may have entered a profession by means of structural adjustment laws before and also during his studies. But this is not exclusively because more and more the economy expects a graduate to have already experienced relevant professional experiences. But when should he make these experiences, if not during his studies? Of course, I also admit that some young people have to practice professions because of their social situation. But that has not been the case just since these structural adjustment laws existed, but it has always been the case. By reading this report as a whole, it is clear and clear that our young people are now doing much better than they did about 20 years ago. However, the following is to be highlighted in this context – and this can also be read from this report if you critically question it –: It will be more difficult for professionals to find the framework conditions at universities and universities to be able to attend the compulsory compulsory seminar even if they have time to do so, or to get the examination date if it allows their profession so as not to have an increased duration of study due to this loss of time. Overall, I think that this report is a good one that the social situation of students is not bad, although it has certainly not become easier to be a student in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17431	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17452	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the report on the social situation of Austrian students, I would like to draw up three topics from my discussion experience: Study and job, a student with a child and the “Bundesministerium für Wissenschaft und Verkehr”. For study and job: What about the cost of living? As long as the "Hotel Mama" works, a student needs 3 135 s per month. However, if the study is not completed at home, the cost of living will rise on average to 6 395 p.m. Let us take a look at this from the situation of employment: 45 percent of students come from households with a monthly income of more than 30 000 S. These students can devote themselves relatively carefree of concern to their studies. 35 percent have financial bottlenecks to deal with through acquisition, and about 20 percent of Austrian students are in real economic distress and have to practice a profession next to their studies. They urgently need state support. While employment allows important processes of experience and learning, the time extension of the study is pre-programmed. On the topic of studying with a child: An Austrian student with a child is currently not receiving karenz money, as do housewives and minor employees. This is unfair in my eyes and, especially in the case of female students, it usually means a special social hardship. For me, all mothers are equally valuable, and I would like this care and education work to be recognized as important family benefits and as the most necessary work and supported by the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] The professional ban should also fall in this case. The cost of the additional effort of 700 to 800 million schilling is to be covered by the excess of FLAF. If the pension fund were then paid as a 100% pure family benefit from FLAF, this would be a relief from employers, and their contributions to unemployment insurance would not be payable. This would lead to a reduction in the additional wage costs of almost half a percent, i.e. 2.5 billion schilling. Last but not least, to the Impulse programme of the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport: Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to look more closely at our youth! You, Mr Minister, are looking for holistic approaches to the issue of transport through the use of innovative technologies. I ask you, too, to get used to public transport early enough and, in the run-up to the financial compensatory negotiations with the Minister of Finance, to talk about the fact that transport associations are supporting commuters and pensioners, but not our youth. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] To change that, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17510	No further words are available. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of this report in III-137 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this Committee report to give a sign. – I notice: The Committee's report has been taken note of by a majority of the National Council. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Graf and others on the withdrawal of the Federal Minister for the Environment, Youth and the Family's regulation on the extension of the entitlement period for family allowances for students' representatives. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, Dr Graf, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr. Martina Gredler concerning the introduction of an annual calculation of possible additional earnings for students. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of Dr Gredler to give a sign on this point. – The Gredler request did not find the necessary majority. The application is therefore rejected. We have thus ended this item on the agenda and the votes on it. 16. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on amendment 1036/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Budget Act (1713 of the Supplements) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 1035/A by Mr Dkfm. May. Josef Mühlbachler, Ing. Kurt Gartlehner and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Civil Fund Act 1996 (1714 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (1655 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Export Refund Act (1715 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17606	We come to points 16 to 18 of today's agenda. The debate on these three points will be held under one. There is no need for oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr. Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17636	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Very briefly: The Federal Budget Act Novelle deals essentially with a reform concerning the disposal possibilities of real estate which have not been as easy as possible in connection with a third place of residence, because opposition possibilities have existed. The new regulation provides that the Minister of Finance may, with the managing body, carry out the sale of a property alone in the future. The second amendment concerns the disaster of Galtür in particular. This has led to the creation of the novel of our Civil Fund Act so that the return of vehicles, but also the return of those who were victims of this disaster, can be financed. I am seeking agreement on these two legislative proposals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17666	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17688	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide to adopt a novel to the Federal Budget Act. This new regulation will enable more flexible handling or facilitation in the sale of properties of the Federal Republic of Germany in the future. At present, a demand survey is often carried out, and in practice this is done in such a way that there is often still a need for distant, completely unsafe projects, and such a recovery is often delayed or prevented at all. This procedure is certainly no longer contemporary, it is at least contrary to the methods of modern real estate management. This change of law now provides for the condition that no longer necessary properties can be sold without a further need test. This means that the sale of no longer necessary parts of federal assets will be facilitated and accelerated. Finally, however, it is also about administrative simplification and, finally, also about cost savings. Mr. State Secretary! In the medium term, professional real estate management should be created. With a reasonable use and management concept for existing properties in relation to marketable rents, savings of a few hundred million schilling per anno can certainly be achieved. Mr State Secretary, in the Committee you have said that professional resource management is necessary in the Federal Republic of Germany's land and buildings, and you have pointed out that it has been working on this for a year now. We also welcome the gradual transfer of the federal buildings to the administration of the BIG. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This change of law is a further step towards greater efficiency in the management of the federal properties and ultimately also to a reduction in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17724	The next speaker was Mr Robert Sigl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17745	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In Europe, Austria is one of the most important holiday countries in all seasons because of its landscaped diversity, the alpine high mountains and the many lakes. But especially the mountains and landscape features so appreciated by holidaymakers pose great dangers, which impose high demands on aid organizations and rescue personnel. The exceptional scale of the avalanche disasters in the west of Austria from February this year now calls for an additional, limited, in its scope of application, benefit of the country's financial assistance fund to cover the costs of the transfer of the victims of death and the transfer of motor vehicles of 900 000 S. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Nature repeatedly demands the use of auxiliary forces when roads are covered with rubble, bridges are underwashed, railway tracks are unpassable or avalanches bury entire parts of the village. The Austrians have therefore developed a particularly great sense of responsibility over the course of generations and have built up an excellent system of interconnected aid structures. If you put the number of volunteers in relation to the population, you can see that Austria has 4 percent volunteer helpers worldwide in a leading position. In addition to the intervention organisations, Austrian civil protection is given a special role to the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs in raising awareness, informing and informing the population, which should contribute to improving the self-protection capacity of citizens. In order to avoid such disasters as those in Galtür, we must continue to invest in state-of-the-art protection systems. For example, further permanent constructions to protect the settlement area are essential, but they should be seen in a holistic way. The highest priority must remain the protection function, but also the interests of nature conservation and the protection of landscapes should be taken into account. The following is certain: The establishment of permanent avalanche protection measures will have to be continued with even greater use of resources due to the events of 1999. In the sense of integrated avalanche protection concepts, however, it should also take into account the concerns of nature and landscape protection, while at the same time promoting rapid, meaningful alternative avalanche protection measures from the pot of the Catastrophen Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to ask you to agree to this motion for a resolution 1035/A so that we can partly help those affected by the Galtür disaster in financial terms, even if this is a rather insignificant one in the whole of the disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17789	The next speaker is Mr Dkfm. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17810	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! The current regulation of the Federal Budget Act on real estate management has proved to be an obstacle to movement. That is why we were forced to bring about a change. The original idea was that all the Federal Offices are being questioned – that is obvious. However, it has been shown that a lot of time has passed by this survey and that, in part, federal departments which have not been able to show any real building needs have also applied for a claim on land. That is why the regulation is now in place. I believe that it is in the sense of improving the efficiency of the Federal Government to decide on this regulation today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17840	The next speaker is Mr Rainer Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17862	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to the debate, I would also like to limit myself to the amendment of the Civil Fund Act, and may I say straight away that the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) will, of course, vote in favour of this motion. But let me say a few more sentences on the subject of avalanches as a whole. The winter here has shown what dangers are actually present in the mountain regions and what tragic consequences can be associated with them. It has also been shown that in addition to the unhappiness areas in Tyrol and Vorarlberg, the region of the inner salt chamber is extremely endangered by avalanches. There was no access to entire valley sections for weeks, they were blocked. I therefore believe that further security measures need to be put in place there; these are simply necessary. But I do not think that it is essential to increase the disaster fund, but rather to set the priorities differently than they have been set so far. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A number of projects are currently being developed, and I can only hope that these projects will also be implemented and implemented. Because it is mainly those colleagues who are involved in the operation of the Wildbach and avalanche plantation that implement these projects. And even the company of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation was not spared by a reorganisation, which essentially consists in the fact that jobs are lost there too; the workforce is reduced. I believe that it is precisely in the light of the events of the last winter that this reorganisation concept should be rethinked. The WLV employees are specialists. They know the site, and they know above all the region from which they originate and in which they are used. And you can't easily replace these specialists! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17910	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17931	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have, in fact, only referred to this item on the agenda for the revision of the Federal Budget Act for a single reason. On the one hand, I am very pleased that we are taking a further step in administrative simplification with this amendment, which is also an objective of the Secretary of State. In the divestment of federal assets, this will undoubtedly gain more efficiency and more flexibility. The nonsense will be eliminated that demand applications of a resort block the whole. Mr State Secretary! However, I would very much like this greater efficiency to be applied not only in the sale of federal assets but also in the reverse case. Let me give you a specific example: I have been a representative of a region for months after an act, once in the Ministry of Justice and once in the Ministry of Finance. You are always treated kindly, but it never comes to a decision. In concrete terms, it is the Waidhofen District Court on the Thaya, which is now housed in an unsustainable building. I've been following the question of renting or buying another building for many months now. I'm also being treated by your place of business – I admit that – but it never comes to a decision. Therefore, my request is: More efficient asset management in both directions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17965	The next speaker is Mr Josef Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e17986	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, this novel to the Export Refund Act: This is an EU adaptation, EC 615/1998. I am essentially concerned with the protection of live animals in transport, and this is very important for all of us. It must also be said that the Federal Minister for Finance has the possibility to set the fees by regulation and to draw up a list on the pre-registrations of animal transport. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that at the next meetings we will again have more opportunities to talk about animal welfare. Let's avoid animal torture together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18019	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18041	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very concerned that I should like to take a brief look at the intended change to the disaster fund. The reason for this change is the dramatic events that have taken place around the avalanche disaster in Galtür and Valzur and caused 38 deaths. Together with our head of state Wendelin Weingartner I was at the site during the entire disaster event. That is why I also had to apologize at the February plenary session because I myself am chairman of an avalanche committee. And one could be impressed to see what the forces in the Paznaun did. Executive, Federal Army, Red Cross, Mountain Rescue, Mountain Guard and many volunteer helpers have done incredible things in the Paznaun these days! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that life in this disaster region continues, but we need help. It is very gratifying that this proposal for a law takes over the costs of transferring the bodies, but also the costs of transferring the motor vehicles. Nevertheless, I do not think that is enough; in addition, other measures are also necessary. The mayors of Ischgl, Galtür, St. Anton, Kaunertal and I have jointly set up a four-point research package. First point: Town protection. The necessary conversion measures must be implemented as quickly as possible to ensure the protection of the places and villages, but also the road links must be made avalanche safe as possible. Second point: Transport helicopter. It must be imagined that 17 000 people had to be evacuated during this disaster. In view of this, it was undoubtedly a command of the hour that a decision was made on transport helicopters for the German army. I also believe that the fleet of helicopters of the Federal Ministry of the Interior must be strengthened in order, for example, to be able to carry out exploration flights for avalanche commissions. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Third point: single disaster radio. Ladies and gentlemen! The telephonic connections were partially broken down in this operation, but also via radio, cooperation between the rescue organizations was very difficult. It is therefore necessary to establish the Adonis radio system on a digital basis in order to ensure that cooperation between the rescue organizations, between executive and federal authorities, works well in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Fourth and final point of this claim package: We need a center for alpine safety in the upper country. I now have no more time to explain this more precisely, but security in the alpine area must be a priority. Therefore, Mr State Secretary, the necessary surveys in the field of avalanche cultivation are currently being carried out and a concept is drawn up for an institute for alpine safety. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! I am already seeking to make the necessary financial resources available to help our region to a lasting extent! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18111	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18132	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think I need much to say about the events in Galtür and the statements of my previous speaker. Only so much: At the end of February, the newspapers were full of reports of disasters about Galtür. The feariest thing is that it hit many children, said a savior in Galtür with tears in his eyes. – This shows how terrible the human suffering caused by unforeseen disasters can be. In reality, we must be clear that even in the future the avalanche of avalanche cannot be predicted or avoided by a hundred percent. I therefore believe that it is essential to provide for victims of disasters to be able to stand by. Although we will not be able to alleviate human suffering, we can at least help to mitigate financial hardships that affect people indebtedly. I therefore welcome the amendment of the Civil Fund Act to the effect that, in future, funds from the Civil Society Fund, which until now used exclusively to eliminate direct property damage, can also be used in connection with the loss of earnings due to operational disturbances and expenses for the recovery, evacuation or transfer of bodies. This will not leave us out of the obligation to do everything possible to prevent such disasters, but we can take this change of law a step in the direction of professional disaster management, so that the good reputation of Austria, which has been achieved by the exemplary assistance provided in the framework of disaster aid in Galtür abroad, is preserved. Ladies and gentlemen! Today began the debate on Kosovo, and I would like to end today with two sentences on Kosovo and Albania: In the shadow of these events, I would like to encourage, within the framework of special measures by the Federal Government, the use of the 400 volunteers, such as the Maltese, the Red Cross and the German army, to take over their social security benefits in order to recognise their humanitarian service with this gesture and thus also to meet the social obligations of these voluntary Austrian volunteers and their families. I therefore ask the Secretary of State and the Austrian Federal Government to take some account of the benefits of these people for the time when they have fulfilled their humanitarian obligations, which we as a whole have to carry out in Austria, even in so far as the new Civil Fund Act is being passed, by freeing them from the obligation to benefit from the social security contribution for at least the time they have been used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18176	No one is reported in the word anymore. That is why I am closing the debate. There is no wish for a conclusion on the part of the rapporteur. We therefore come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1713 of the supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who gave their approval to this bill in 1713 of the Supplements give a sign. – This was decided unanimously at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the course of the third reading, I should like to ask that a sign be given whether there is an agreement on this proposal. – I notice: The proposal was adopted unanimously at third reading. The next item is the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1714 of the Supplements. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who agree with this draft law to show this by a sign. The proposal was unanimously adopted at second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In the event of approval, I would also ask for a sign at third reading. – I notice: The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1715 of the supplements. I should also like to ask that a sign be given at second reading in the event of approval of this proposal. The National Council decided unanimously on the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask that a sign be given here in the case of approval. – This text was adopted unanimously in 1715 of the Supplements at third reading. That's what we've done with the agenda. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-04-21-020-XX-NRSITZ-00165_d8e18253	I would also like to say that at today's sitting, Amendments Nos 1058/A to 1067/A have been tabled. Questions 6089/J to 6134/J and a request from Mrs Povysil, 51/JPR, have also been received from the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 22nd. April, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. At the beginning of tomorrow's meeting there will be a Question Time and a meeting of the main committee will be scheduled for 8.15 a.m. This meeting is closed.
