ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e2891	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you to 159. I welcome the meeting of the National Council, which I welcome. The official protocol of 158. Meeting of 16 March 1990 In February 1999, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented from attending today's meeting, MEPs are Gradwohl, Heinzl, Dr. Doppelmüller, Mag. Frieser, Gatterer, Kröll, Platter, Aumayr, Böhacker and Dr. Haider. Declaration by the President on the occasion of the avalanche accident in Tyrol
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e2925	Ladies and gentlemen! [[President Dr. Fischer, as well as all in the Saale, rise from their seats.]] Yesterday we have the news of the terrible, tragic accident that happened in Austria, in Galtür, Tyrol. I believe it is the desire of all the members of the House to remember first of all the dead, to express our sincere compassion to the members of the dead, and at the same time to express the hope that it may be possible to save as many people as possible in these hours, with all the helpers wishing for success and expressing our thanks to them. In a presidential meeting which has now taken place, we have briefly considered whether the National Council should articulate itself in a resolution on this matter, but we believe that it is natural for everyone – government, state governments, municipalities, federal army, Gendarmerie, fire brigade – to do their best in these hours to limit the damage, to save human lives and, of course, to make arrangements for the future as far as possible. I ask you, in a minute of commemoration, to endure in a minute of mourning to commemorate the victim of this disaster. [[Those present briefly persist in silent remembrance.]] Thank you. [[The seats are taken again.]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e2967	The Federal Electoral Authority has received a notice from Mr. Ing. Mr Meischberger has given up his mandate and, in his place, Mr Wilfried Tilg has been appointed to the National Council. Since the so-called constituency is present and this one is present in the House, I shall immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words "I promise". I would ask the author, Mr Auer, to read the formula and I may ask you to rise from the seats again.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e2991	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3007	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3022	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3049	Ladies and gentlemen! For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Science and Transport, Dr. Caspar Einm, is represented by Mr. Rudolf Edlinger today. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3071	We will now arrive – at 10.06 a.m. – at the current hour on the subject Fraud of Austrian farmers I should also like to make a brief statement from the President-in-Office: We have undertaken to hold a presidential meeting on the terminology of business orders on the next occasion, in order to avoid a debate on this issue here and now. First of all, Mr Schweitzer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3104	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Given the avalanche accident of Galtür, it is not quite easy to return to political everyday life. Our compassion belongs to all the family and friends of the victims, and I am sure that all the necessary measures will be taken by the official bodies, by the rescue of the mountains, to limit this disaster, as far as possible. Mr President. Nevertheless, political everyday life should be discussed here with everything that belongs to it, and I refer once again to the title of this current hour, which reads as follows: Fraud of Austrian farmers. That is a quote, Mr President. A journalist of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", Barazon, wrote an editorial under this title, and I think he has rightly chosen this title. The content of this Agenda 2000 is nothing but a fraud against Austrian farmers. I shall also prove, in the course of my remarks, that it is indeed so. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are still some here in the House who will remember – especially the farmers' representatives of the ÖVP will remember well – that we discussed the future of Austrian farmers for a very long time before the accession of the EU to Austria, and it was my former colleagues Huber, Murer, Reichhold and also colleague Aumayr, who is still in the National Council today, who signed the scenario that has occurred today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They of the ÖVP have always contradicted the colleagues of the liberals and have said that black painters are at work here, all this will not happen. The then Minister of Agriculture Fischler has been sitting here on the government bank and has had a great solution for everything the liberals have recognized about problems, and he has announced this great solution with radiant Tyrolean smiles from this bank: "Fine-cost shop in Europe" he called this solution. This "fine-cost shop of Europe" is the solution to all rural problems. Farmers will not be able to produce enough to fill the shelves of this "fine shop of Europe" and they will receive prices they have never received. – That was the credo of the current Commissioner Fischler, and the ÖVP applauded and pointed to the black painters of the FPÖ. And today? Where is this 'fine-cost shop in Europe', ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? Where have you already bought these Austrian products in Europe, these fine food products at expensive prices? Where did you buy them, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? That was the solution of the ÖVP for the future security of Austrian farmers, and now a new model is being propagated. Once again, the Minister Fischler, who has now joined the Commission, threatens us with a programme to ensure the future, ladies and gentlemen. It must be said that it threatens us with Agenda 2000. According to Fischler, this Agenda 2000 shows us the way: the way out of surplus production, the way out of absurd expenditure, the way against world trade restrictions. And Fischler literally says: The reform will no longer invest in grain and meat mountains, but in European competitiveness – said Fischler – in business farmers and processors. Mr Schwarzböck! Explain It is my friend Karner, who feeds in about 1,000 pigs in his farm, how he should compete with the Dutch pig breeder who produces on huge ships, who lets everything that matters into the sea! How is this to be competitive with the Dutch pig breeder, Mr Schwarzböck? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How is that supposed to work? What's going to be Are you saying to my colleague Karner in Willersdorf, who is in front of the ruin for which the pig price is below 10 s today? To whom can such income declines still be expected? What kind of professional group can we expect, ladies and gentlemen? This future security programme by Mr Fischler means: minus 30 percent in beef, minus 20 percent in cereals, minus 15 percent in milk. – This is what the new future security programme of the ÖVP farmer Fischler looks like, and the ÖVP farmers in this House have supported all of this to this day – no: until yesterday – ladies and gentlemen. The compensation payments are not enough, you know! It will not be able to compensate for the loss of income, which is provided for here in compensation payments. Under the rule, ladies and gentlemen, new income losses in the amount of 4 billion schilling are threatening for the Austrian farmers. Above all, this Agenda 2000 is necessary, ladies and gentlemen - and this must be said to the Austrians, that is to say, to the Austrian farmers - because an Easter enlargement has to be financed because the passage of some countries has to be financed, which will once again bring problems of existence to the local farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! If countries such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic come to the European Union, then this means even larger agricultural areas, which are to be covered by these support programmes, it means nothing but additional competition for local farmers, with very different production conditions, because then the agricultural industry will be caught up because then quantities will be produced on huge areas under conditions that our Austrian farmers simply do not have due to the natural conditions. They need to finance their own competition with income losses. Ladies and gentlemen! You think that's what we're doing to our farmers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Schwarzenberger already has something to say!]] This Fischler reform is carried by you. This so-called future security programme is for the large-scale agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, in the USA, but not for the rural family farms in Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Demonstrators go!]] From Monday, however, Mr Schwarzböck also noticed that something was going wrong, and he went to Brussels to demonstrate. It was just too funny to see you on TV as a protester, Mr. Schwarzböck, to see how you balled the fist in the pocket. – But there was no one there, there was no contact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where was the Commissioner? Did you get access? [[Abg. Haigermoser: He sent you a waterthrower!]] It was really funny! Today it is public: EU agricultural policy has failed. This support policy has been shown to be extremely sensitive. Many billions – a total of 57 billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen! – have disappeared in dark channels, and you continue to stick to this moloch! We liberals have pointed this out. We told the population what was going to come, but that was all black-painted. That is not true!, they have been said, but reality even surpasses what we have developed in the scenario. There will be a black in front of you, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The financing and preparation of Easter enlargement must not be at the expense of farmers. There must be no degression of market organisation premiums. We need harmonisation of environmental and consumer protection – I believe you will be right, Minister – and high standards in these areas must be incorporated into international agreements. Fair competition can only be achieved if high environmental levels, high levels of consumer protection in other countries, are respected. That is what it is to be asked, that is what it is to be done, ladies and gentlemen. You have reliable partners in us. Here you can make agricultural policy with us for small domestic farms, which are more than just production plants: They are part of this Austrian identity. That must finally become clear to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Environmental protection must be much more involved in agricultural policy, it must be given even greater weight, i.e. direct payments must be in line with clearly defined environmental objectives, so that landscape protection... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3205	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3221	... and consumer protection in the future are important elements of the agricultural policy. This is how freedom of expression looks in terms of future security programmes for farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3248	On the subject of the opinion, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke. He represents the Minister for Agriculture. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3269	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me also to express my shock at the terrible avalanche accident in Galtür. My and our participation is for the members of the dead. We wish the helpers all the best and good luck. I am here today to represent my colleague, Minister of Agriculture Wilhelm Molterer, because he is currently taking part in the decisive meeting of the ministers of agriculture in Brussels and is there in favour of the interests of the Austrian farmers. That is why it is just too irresponsible from the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, to quote him away from these negotiations on Agenda 2000 to Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] At this hour, Minister Molterer's place is at the negotiating table, and I am sure that the Austrian farmers will now need their ministers most. It must influence where decisions take place in these days. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As I have now heard how much our accession to the European Union has been criticized by the Liberals, by Mr Schweitzer, you allow me to make the following comment in my traditional role in this government as Minister for the Environment: For me in particular, the introduction and strengthening of environmental elements in agricultural policy is an outstanding example of the possibility of design at European level, which would have been scarcely given or feasible at national level. Austria was able to maintain significantly more environmentally friendly and ecological production compared to the European Union even after accession in 1995. This success was possible through the comprehensive approach of the Austrian programme for environmentally sound agriculture. Over the years, about 80 percent of farms with 90 percent of agricultural land were able to participate. This makes Austria the "environmental programmes" of the Community. Austria is able to achieve no less than 17 percent of the funds allocated to this area! But now on the issues raised in the context of the further development of European agriculture. The common basis for the reform of the common agricultural policy is the European model of agriculture confirmed by the European Council. We are in favour of a reform which will enable the country to be managed on a large scale, including the mountain areas and the less favoured areas. A sustainable form of management, i.e. a management in accordance with nature, will also meet environmental requirements. It is clear that the various tasks of agriculture are in the preservation and design of the natural and cultural landscape in social consensus. The claim of this European identity of agriculture is not contrary to the fourth cornerstone, namely competitiveness. In this context, however, it is necessary to note that this may not only be a question of price alone. The higher animal welfare, social and environmental standards recognised and wanted by society in Europe must therefore be safeguarded at international level. The new European agriculture, the model of this itself, ladies and gentlemen, is based on two pillars. First of all, these are the market rules: Farmers want to continue to generate a good share of their income through the sale of their products. Therefore, Austria is critical of the proposed price reductions in the various market areas. As a compensation for the price reductions in milk, beef and crops, direct payments must be increased in the form of premiums. In this context, some European finance ministers propose that these premiums should generally be reduced by percentage each year. This model, ladies and gentlemen, we strongly reject! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria has introduced a more socially just proposal to standardize premiums. If the market-regulation premiums are to be phased in, we believe that there must be a differentiation by size. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... and will therefore vote against it!]] The proposals to amend the rules of the market vary greatly from one Member State to another in the current negotiations. The German Presidency still wants to reach political agreement in the Council of Agriculture Ministers this week. The second priority is rural development: As part of the previous Agenda 2000 negotiations, rural development has been established as the second pillar of agricultural policy. In addition to market income and premiums, the benefits contained in these payments are the third component in the future income formation of our farmers. These proposals are, in principle, already largely in line at European level. Especially in this area, negotiations have succeeded in anchoring positive approaches, especially for Austria. In this way, it will be possible to introduce a base amount for small farms as part of the compensation allowance. Those measures, which have so far been limited to 5b areas, will now be offered horizontally, i.e. throughout the federal territory. There will also be a level playing field in investment promotion for the ancillary farmers and a general co-financing rate of 50 percent in the field of agri-environmental programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting in Cardiff, the Heads of State or Government confirmed that appropriate and sufficient resources must be available to reform agricultural policy while respecting budgetary discipline. A reasonable budgetary framework is a prerequisite for a reasonable agricultural policy in Europe. In recent months, this debate has been on a stronger scale at European level. From this point of view, we can also understand the call of the European peasantry in Brussels. Yesterday, in a demonstration march, 50,000 farmers raised the warning voice and made it clear that it is about the existence of European agriculture, and many Austrian farmers, including those sitting here in this hall, were involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Where was Fischler?]] The representative of the Austrian peasantry, our Minister for Agriculture Molterer, is aware that it is about the future of the farmers and that, therefore, a reasonable line in the budget question has absolute priority in the negotiations taking place at all levels over the next few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Fischler could stop anything!]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3361	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. The speaking times are uniformly 5 minutes. Mr Robert Wenitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3404	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, they are the wrong contacts at the moment, but this means that the farmers have to find themselves and that is why we have to find ourselves. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are just about to destroy an entire profession. There is no other way to describe the intentions contained in Agenda 2000. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Minister, the Farmers' Association, the former Minister for Agriculture and the current Commissioner for Agriculture, Fischler, sent by the ÖVP, calls for a 30 percent reduction in the intervention price for beef. It calls for a 17 percent reduction in the milk target price. It calls for a 17 percent reduction in the intervention price for butter and skimmed milk powder and a 20% reduction in the intervention price for cereals. The compensatory payments currently offered for this purpose do not represent a full compensation for the loss of income for farmers. This means an annual loss of 4 billion schillings for the Austrian farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, ÖVP Commissioner Fischler intends to freeze and degressiveize the market-regulation premiums at the level of 1999. This is really the ruin and the ruin of the peasantry, quite different from what you, Mr Minister, meant in your speech, when you tried to present what Austria basically did for agriculture. – Nothing we have done, on the contrary: I am convinced that farmers who have built up their organic farms in sweating applications will suffer the most from this price decline in agricultural products. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barazon speaks of fraud to Austrian farmers, but I even take a step further: It is not a fraud on the farm stand alone, it is also a fraud on the consumer! [[Abg. Smolle: Right!]] I have prepared an example here, and I would really ask all consumer protectionists to respond to the statements of this Taferl: [[The speaker shows a panel]] A kilogram of wheat, my dear ladies and gentlemen, costs at the moment 1,80 s. From a kilogram of wheat you can produce 22 seconds. That is to say, the share of the wheat price in a semitrailer is currently 8 sizes. A 20 per cent reduction in cereal prices would mean a 1.6-gross reduction for consumers. If I assume an average price of 3 s at present, that means that the Semmel could not even be reduced by half a percent, if this approval of agricultural products is passed on to consumers at all, which I very much doubt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Smolle: Please repeat! Repeat!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's hard at term, Mr. Smolle!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Please repeat!]] Yes, I know, Mr Smolle, that you have no idea of agriculture. That's clear to me. But I would ask you: Don't talk about such topics in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! The farm workplace is massively threatened. That is why we call for the Austrian government to: No consent to the planned Agenda 2000 and thus to Easter enlargement! Furthermore, there is a need to establish uniform environmental standards in Europe, how at last the conditions of competition in the farm equipment sector for Austrian farmers need to be adjusted. It is unfair to call on a single profession to produce at world market prices if the same production conditions are not found everywhere in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! By your colleague Magnifice's failure. During the Austrian Presidency, where he had the duty to set the course for the future agricultural policy, he would have had the duty at last to call for income policy to be renationalized in agriculture. I would like to remind Mr Smolle of the Liberals, because he has previously been involved in the interests of Austrian farmers, only to remind him that the future senior Liberal candidate for the EU elections is calling for the same, namely a reduction in membership contributions in order to make employment policy available. I call for the same for farmers: a reduction in our membership contribution and a renationalisation of income policy. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This enables each country to respond individually to the needs of its farmers and its citizens. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to the conclusion, Mr President. – It is becoming increasingly clear that the ÖVP is becoming more or less the "Henker" of the peasantry. The sad thing for me is the fact that the farmers, with their contributions to this farmland, are financing their own backers!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3522	The next speaker is Mr Rainer Wimmer. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3543	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This week is very important and important for Austrian agriculture. First of all, there was the great demonstration in Brussels, which had been vehemently demonstrated against the Commission's proposals. We have been allowed to experience this demonstration in the media. Furthermore, the current hour of the liberals is taking place today, in which – we can assume – no good hair is left on the Austrian agricultural policy, and ultimately the negotiations on Agenda 2000 are currently taking place in Brussels. As far as the demonstration in Brussels is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed – I have followed the reports in the media – that Commissioner Fischler was not very impressed when he thought, for example, that he would certainly not bow to the pressure of the road. He was also right when he said it was no longer financeable to produce for intervention camps and not for the market. These were very clear words that he found in this regard, and he has actually put it to the fore. The reform of agricultural and regional policy is currently the most important issue in the European Commission. The main objective is to continue the reform of 1992. In other words, it is primarily about reducing intervention prices, which are to be compensated for and compensated for in return by direct payments. At the same time, however, this means that the future financing of agricultural support will be delayed, to the shift from consumer, as I believe, to taxpayers. It is estimated that there will be additional costs in the range of 4 to 8 billion euros, which I would like to assume – and just today there is something else in the media – that this amount will not reach this level. It's probably going to be smaller. However, we will not know until these payments are actually made. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, I also do not want to hide the fact that this Agenda proposal is also a positive one. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of the ceilings on large businesses or of the possibility of further differentiation in the Member States' support, or of a greater increase in the appropriations for environmental programmes. Also positive and very forward-looking are the regional policy approaches set out in this proposal. I therefore believe that individual elements of this proposal are quite positive. Overall, however, this reform is not socially oriented, at least until now. I hope that this issue will be discussed and negotiated in future negotiations. In particular, there is a lack of precise objectives and a greater social orientation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely the argument of unfair support that draws like a red thread through the constant discussions, above all because one sees that the traditional funding instruments actually affect and accelerate structural change. Despite the reform undertaken in 1992, 500 000 farms are lost per year throughout the European Union. Austria itself is also very affected. Promotions such as animal, agricultural and environmental premiums are currently aimed exclusively at the number of animals kept or according to the farmed area. So, of course, it is obvious that large operating units enjoy strong financial benefits, whereas the small farms, in other words our small farmers, receive only very modest grants. I do not want to reheat this issue at all, but in the end it means – which is always being co-imported and is not a secret – that 20 percent of large farms receive 80 percent of the funding today. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This road ends for many farmers in a dead end. He is leading in the direction that we all do not want, namely industrial agriculture. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This system promotes the big ones and forces more and more smaller farmers to give up. That's why I mean...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3598	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3614	... that it is imperative, instead of promoting the area or the number of animals, to put people at the centre in the future. Allow me just one more comment on the proposal by Federal Minister Molterer, Mr President. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Too much written down, huh? He's got five pages left!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] In order to maintain a comprehensive agriculture – yes, Mr Schweitzer – we need a redistribution in the funding system. We need a redistribution of large companies to small businesses,... [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3655	Now it's over!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3677	To the small farmers. If Federal Minister Molterer submits this proposal, he can assume that we will support him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3707	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3728	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, it is unfortunate that, in the face of the present huge natural disaster, a party in Parliament finds no other answer than actionism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] I also reject with determination the statement that the "Henker" Farmers' Federation is the "Henker" of the Austrian farmers, because the Farmers' Federation is the only political peasant organisation that fights for the interests of the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What about the market regulation under Agenda 2000? [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The current programme period is running out in this year, and a market order will still be necessary in the future. A complete rejection of Agenda 2000 is to be fully committed to free competition without obtaining CAP premiums as a substitute for them. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Blablabla!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Blablabla!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! What's the problem? – Europe’s farmers produce 10 to 20 percent more than can be sold in Europe. There is also a WTO agreement which already dates back to 1993 and which provides for a reduction of export support by 36 per cent between the next six years, i.e. from 1995 to 2001, and by 21 per cent of the amount supported. This is why new recipes are being sought. However, we demand such recipes that the reduction in export support that FPÖ has so far always required, which leads to domestic price losses and farm income losses, is fully offset by CAP premiums. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The current displeasure of farmers has prompted the demand of eight EU finance ministers to freeze the budget targets to the level of 1999. I have to say that the Commission's proposal aims at increasing the CAP premiums to farmers to 59 billion schilling in 2006 and, on the other hand, farmers are now defending themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Then vote against it!]] That is why it is also necessary for Minister Molterer to be present at the decisive final negotiations in Brussels... – Yes, Deputy Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: vote against!]] If you understood more about agricultural policy, your calls would probably be different. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: principle of unanimity!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Wimmer! We don't understand: Molterer put forward the following proposal: If there is a degression, if there are to be cuts, then only one degression of size and no degression of time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The Social Democrats of Germany, France and England strongly reject a degression because, according to their objectives, only the large enterprises have the future, but not the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You just need to be against it, and it doesn't happen!]] My request would therefore be that the Austrian Social Democrats should influence the German Social Democrats. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Schweitzer said at the beginning of his speech that the Huber Plan would have been the concept of the Freedom Party for the questions of the future. The Huber plan stated that each full-time business should receive 100 000 S, but that everything else should be left to the world market. In view of this, security in Agenda 2000 is much better than in the Huber Plan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: How is the sweater supposed to know?]] Another comment: Member of the Reichhold, former agricultural speaker of the Freedom Party, said here – I quote from the Minutes –: In this declaration of government, I also have a real EC provision for farmers. 3 billion schillings are expected in income losses. – Do you know what security there was? – It was not 3 billion a year, but 10 billion schilling were planned in addition to the EU premiums under the 40 billion package for four years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I can also quote your party chairman, who unfortunately is not present today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The election campaign is more important to him!]] In the "trend" of October 1997 he was asked: Around 60 percent of EU subsidies are spent on agriculture. Do you consider this division to be timely and fair to small and medium-sized enterprises? Haider replied: The FPÖ is in principle opposed to subsidies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3946	Please ask for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3962	This model certainly does not make agriculture competitive for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e3992	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4022	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki Dom! High house! Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We can, of course, reduce agricultural policy, as the FPÖ has done, to a smelting policy. I must say that this simple view is characterised by the FPÖ. It's the way the little Hansi is supposed to be. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It's about Semmeling, and that's the level you're arguing on. Ladies and gentlemen! But it must have been said up to the FPÖ that the same schilling can only be spent once, the same euro can only be spent once. But you promise everything from the speaker's mouth every time. This is also the problem of your agricultural policy. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Smolle, what does a kilo of bread cost?]] Back to the issue: It is clear that this kind of budgetary policy in the EU's agricultural sector is no longer possible to continue. It is clear that there must be a great turn of events, and that is to say, away from the promotion of products to the promotion of direct payments to farmers. That is the central objective. That's what we have to assume. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If a plea has been made here for the Farmers' Federation, I would like to make it clear that the Farmers' Association is also responsible for the misguided EU budget and for the malnourished agricultural policy as a whole. They have driven us into this sheer, so that we no longer know how to finance the entire agricultural market. That's what you blame yourself for, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Bravo, Smolle! Very good!]] What's this about? – We have to get away from the intervention prices, we have to get away from export support, and we have to get away from the excessive and excessive administrative burden. These are three very clear cornerstones. We must make European and Austrian agriculture competitive. That's the most important thing. We also need to create sustainable, good, solid jobs in agriculture, and that is to say: Structural change in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! This is the point we need to talk about. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What are you: green, liberal? What are you?]] We have 78 000 main businesses in Austria, with 166 000 secondary jobs facing them. Even this sheer clearly shows that there is a structural change, a reform is required. This is the starting point, ladies and gentlemen. We need a discharge of the budget. We need lower expenditure in favour of agricultural support. We need a lower administrative burden. We also need enough money, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the direction of FPÖ, for Easter enlargement. Easter enlargement is an economic, political and security-political project. And we Austrians just have to go there. We must not talk about Semmelling and other such little things. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So we need competitive and strong agriculture. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Smolle! What's the price of a semi-trailer? Do you even know that? At Hofer's!]] With the support of product prices, we cut together precisely the world market prices that we are going to follow again. This is the fundamentally wrong policy. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, the statement made by my colleague, Mr Strohmayer, was also correct, who said that we must also seek renationalization in support. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's it? Look here!]] We cannot release the Austrian Federal Government out of its basic responsibility. We cannot allow it to talk about the EU and the Commission as a matter of fact if it itself makes poor structural policies in agriculture and also in matters of employment. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the idea that Mr Strohmayer has clearly expressed. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's the man's name?]] There is also a responsibility of the countries! We must eliminate the expenditure dynamics that we have just brought into the EU budget. We have clear tasks. We have clear objectives. However, I would also like to say something positive, and I would ask you, Minister, to inform Mr Molterer. We assume that the agricultural ministers will be strong enough to implement this reform – also against the farmers' lobby and also against the populists! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4148	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4169	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger! I just want to say one sentence about your excitement about this Taferl. I think it is very degoutant to continue in this line of reasoning by saying that it is no longer allowed to show material here because a serious avalanche accident has happened. The participation is uniform, and all Members share it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hans Helmut Moser.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What can a Democrat or a farmer or a farmer wish more than the following: We sit in the Austrian Parliament, the Environment Minister himself sits here and represents the concerns of agriculture. The Minister for Agriculture of the ÖDP is sitting in Brussels and negotiating. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Minister for Agriculture of the Republic of Austria!]] The former Minister for Agriculture of the ÖVP, Franz Fischler, has the most powerful place in Brussels. What can happen democratically more, what can be more effective for a small country like Austria than this constellation, ladies and gentlemen? – Nevertheless, it is necessary for people to go to the streets, which have so far been able to play a very powerful role in the democratic debate in our country and to form agricultural policy. In one of my previous speeches, I have noted that there are almost no starting points for the opposition here in this House to interfere in agricultural policy, especially if one of the most powerful agriculturalists like Mr Schwarzböck suddenly has to change to the demonstrators and then the Commissioner and the executive in Brussels dance with the water yards. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the situation in which we are in? – I ask you: What kind of Parliament is to do like this? – I believe that our possibilities should be used up here. But what are we doing? Mr Umweltminister! You've been talking about the degression models here today. What was the great promise of your party, of the ÖVP and then of the SPÖ? At the time, these measures – we have carried them together – were to the public authorities in order to meet these billions of funds that the farmers are entitled to because they fulfil an existential, important task in our country. But what did you promise then? – You will bind these payments clearly and effectively to social issues, you will bind these payments clearly and effectively to environmental standards. What's left of it? – Mr Molterer is fighting for a degression that affects about 100 farmers. The mass, the quantity, the large number of agriculture in Austria is about 20 000 to 50 000 s a year in support. In this respect, there is a proposal from the Greens at European level that supplements should be paid in this area and radically reduced in the upper area. For who can understand – I can still remember the outrage of the Social Democrats – that 73 000 farmers register 22,000 S and 292 farmers averaging 2 million Schilling funding? That is why Mr Molterer's model is too short. Mr Umweltminister! You should say something about that. We would also have had the opportunity here in this House to make a clear decision in the context of genetic engineering. However, I must say: The FPÖ also did not go along. We have demanded that the taxpayer, when the consumer is rightly involved with the means of taxation, should it be legitimate for consumers to take their concerns into account, in the sense that their products are free from genetic engineering. You of the ÖVP, of the FPÖ, of the SPÖ and also of the Liberals have rejected this proposal of the Greens. This would have affected 90 percent of the agricultural area. We have no linguistic differences, but when you go into detail, you can see exactly which side you are on.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4202	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4217	My final sentence: I believe that what Molterer is fighting for in Brussels is a very modest approach. This modest approach goes in the right direction, but if it remains so modest, it is another serious loss of opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4269	The next speaker was Mr Salzl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4290	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Schwarzenberger! After your fairy tale from the speaker's desk, I don't wonder that you had to be taken away from the farming assembly with Gendarmerie. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Except for Haider, there is no need for a member of the Gendarmerie Accompaniment! The Haider needs the most general army support!]] – This has gone through the press, and you will not be able to dispute it. If you accuse us of actionism, I must tell you what you listed in Brussels a few days ago, actionism was pure. The peasants drive to Brussels to protest against the farmer-bander Fischler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Instead of letting him out of the peasantry and explaining him to the persona non grata, they are demonstrating and making a theatre there at the expense of our farmers. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government, with its accession to the EU, has sacrificed our farmers to the EU altar, and with the sending of Fischlers as a commissioner it has been tried to hand over responsibility for this missing agricultural policy in recent years and decades to the EU-Garderobe. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger, this is also clear from your speech, but above all from the press reports of the last few days. For example, the German farmers' association president, Commissioner Fischler, attacks and says – literally – that: "A fairy tale on Agenda 2000 – Commissioner Fischler speaks of horror scenario." Then it goes on to say: The President of the German Farmers' Association Gerd Sonnleitner has attacked the EU Commission in sharp tones, in particular Commissioner for Agriculture Fischler. According to a report submitted in advance by the Munich news magazine "Focus", he accused fishermen of deceiving farmers and consumers with a fairy tale hour about the true consequences of the Agenda 2000 reform package. – And just the same fairy tale hour you're trying to get over the stage here. Ladies and gentlemen! It goes on to say: None of the promises made would be true, neither the environment nor the taxpayer nor the EU budget would benefit from the reform. The only thing Fischler had to do with this was to say that the farmers' associations are painting a horror scenario here, and they are insecure the farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! That's your policy. Not those who have caused the horror scenario are guilty, but those who show it are then at once guilty of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this fisherman is a horror to the farmers. He obviously does not know his own studies or the Commission's study on Agenda 2000. In this study, "Effect on employment in the agricultural sector up to 2006": There would be an income increase of 3 percent by 2006 for our farmers, but only if 2.5 to 3 million farmers ceased to lock the farms and this area would be divided into the others. So if 2 to 3 million farmers give up, there would be a profit of 3 percent, a growth in income. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ statements are going in the same direction, which say: It is not too little money or there are not too few promotions there, there are only too many farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! If that is the future prospects for our poor farmers who are at risk of their existence, then good night! Good night with this agricultural policy, good night with this income policy, which has been operating in recent years, good night with this Agenda 2000! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! There's nothing to do with you making yourself here and saying it's all right anyway, the farmers aren't that bad. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Who said this?]] - You said it. They praised the OPUL programme in the highest tones and meant that it would provide a guarantee of existence for our farmers. In reality, it looks completely different. I have a study by the Minister for Agriculture on poverty in rural areas, which says that more than 30 per cent of farmers are at risk of poverty and the main victims of this new poverty are women. Mr Federal Minister, this matter is partly your place! They should make sure that farmers, the rural families, the women in the agricultural farms actually have future prospects. Ladies and gentlemen! For years, large-scale farmers have been destroyed – operated by the EU, supported by this Federal Government. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can promise you one thing: We liberals will appear with all vehemence against this peasant destruction.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4375	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4405	On the call from the right, what's going on, I can say: It is the fact that I wear two different shoes, not a fashion gag. We are used to fashiongags from your side. I am just thinking of the samtsakkos and shirts with ruffles by Mr Haider, we are just waiting for the silk pants and the puffs. I'm a relief. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I just wanted to know!]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that there is a need for reform in the field of agriculture. I would like to quote Commissioner Fischler of a briefing in Brussels: Fischler stressed that there is no ambiguity about the problems to be solved. The WTO limits for our subsidized exports are already fixed. The difference between prices on the internal market and those on the world market is also obvious. It is clear that there are significant cuts in agricultural production. The fact is that the budgets of the EU Member States are tense. The fact is that the EU's accession to the CEEC is pending. The fact is that the Structural Funds have to be reformed. In view of these circumstances, something must clearly be done in the field of agriculture. Commissioner Fischler has responded, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== He presented the Agenda 2000 in July 1997. What has happened in the long time since then? Again, I quote statements by Commissioner Fischler in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten': Farmers are not told the truth. Fisher: In the beginning, the farmers' representatives meant: We do not need any reform, and we therefore prevent the reform! The farmers shot their own door by their behavior at the beginning. – As a result, Commissioner Fischler makes three statements – he speaks three times – that some of the farmers are not told the truth. In this interview alone he refers to it three times. Another, not essential point in the context of the fact that the Agenda 2000 was already presented in July 1997 is a recent press release by Mr Molterer, Minister of the State, in which he indicates that he is currently having intensive discussions with other Member States. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that a great deal of valuable time has been spent on this matter in particular. That something has to happen is, however, a fact – a fact that the "South German newspaper" has also explained. The "Süddeutsche Zeitung" writes that since 1992 500 000 – half a million! – agricultural holdings are closed. Year after year! Imagine that! What does that mean to us? – For Austria, we can and must say that we must look at the maintenance of the small peasant structure. I quote the Austrian Mining Association, which criticises that it has so far been denied to develop a concept with visions of the future for farming. I would like to quote Commissioner Fischler again, who says: What is the future of Austrian agriculture? – It is in all cases in quality. It is not where it sees the liberal parliamentarian. Freshener says: The family farms are an agricultural living lie. It's not a future job to be a seven-hectare farmer. The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. I bring you an example from my region, from Salzburg, where there are a lot of small miners. There is, for example, a dairy in Maishofen. It has processed 3.8 million liters of milk in 1992 and over 40 million liters of milk in 1998 – clean organic products. In principle, this was an opportunity for the small farmers. I think it is wrong to condemn small-structured agriculture. With Agenda 2000, we need a reduction in production prices, we need to ensure farmers' incomes by direct payment, and the essential thing is that a base amount is introduced for small farms and finally a social levelling takes place.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4446	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4468	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Negotiations in the Council of Agriculture Ministers in Brussels and the current hour of the Austrian National Council are not currently about Semmelling, nor about budgetary positions, but about the framework conditions for 17 million employees in European agriculture. If each employee has a family member, this population group is about the electorate of Italy. If you take into account the interests of agriculture and the food industry, you can say: It concerns the impact of citizens on a country in the size of France or Germany. 9.5 million of these 17 million workers in agriculture are over 55 years of age, 1.3 million are under 35 years of age, and about a third is between 35 and 55 years of age. The concept of reform, as the Commission has proposed, is based on previous budgetary principles, and President Schwarzenberger has referred to it. On the basis of the results of the German The declaration of principle for maintaining this line has changed considerably and the political weights in Europe have totally shifted. The German EU Presidency supports liberal approaches in the field of market and structural policy. The majority of the Social Democratic Finance Ministers would like to cut the budget sharply in the implementation of this concept. If this happens – all of these are still hypotheses – then there are stronger liberal elements in the market and a conscious shift of budget resources in favour of the interests of social-democratic workers policy. This can mean – I emphasize: all these are hypotheses – that all those forces who feel displeased with globalisation and liberalism in their sphere of interest have to make sure that they have everything available towards mitigating globalisation and liberalism in their sphere of interest. My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, from an Austrian point of view, it is not only about whether Minister Molterer is in favour of the model "European agriculture", but also about whether Finance Minister Edlinger, who has declared himself a taxpayer of taxpayers and not an enemy of farmers, ultimately brings me more than budget stabilisation. In politics it is no art to spend less money. With less money, art is to effectively implement the same objectives that have so far been represented in a consensusal way. These were also in agreement in this Parliament between the government parties, I think, even with the opposition! We want an agriculture that is characterised by ecological orientation and which meets the high ethical requirements of Austrian and European consumers – most comprehensible in our position on genetic engineering. More liberalism with less money – this goal is dangerous illusion, which must be clear to all. With more liberalism and less money, ecology and genetic engineering can no longer be achieved. It is therefore quite clear that the majority of the Social-Democratic Finance, Agriculture and Foreign Ministers can not only deal with budgetary responsibility, but also with the question of whether they are on these objectives of our common policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This will have to be assessed at the end of the negotiation result. I demonstrated on Monday in Brussels out of conviction, but not against the EU, but for a democratic, partnershipal EU, and that depends on the political leadership of this EU! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the farmer Fischler!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to say openly, ladies and gentlemen: I am proud that 40 000 farmers have expressed their displeasure and concern. But I am also proud that no injury has happened. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who received you? Who has received you in partnership? Who received you?]] But I also say with all openness: The reaction of the President-in-Offices regarding the articulation of these 17 million persons employed...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4539	Please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4554	... has severely shaken my idea of the social democratic view of fundamental rights in terms of strikes and demonstrations.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4584	The next speaker is Mrs Gredler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4606	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker shaped an interesting sentence by saying: More liberalism would harm. – I say to you: More liberalism means basic security, and basic security for farmers means more security for their lives and for their incomes. This is more liberalism: that the farmers are no longer suspended from the white need and the arbitrariness of any subsidiser, but that they are secured by the basic guarantee. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I would recommend you once to be friends with the model we have developed. This would also be a good way for farmers, especially in view of the fact that 300 000 people work in agriculture in Austria, of which two thirds are auxiliary farmers, for good reason, which means that the whole system is "bad". It should be reformed in principle. There is a return of 13.5 billion Schilling from the EU to Austria. In addition, about 16 billion schillings are financed by the federal government and countries. Together, this is 29 billion schilling of funding. This means that for every kilogram of beef produced on the world market – at the beginning of the nineties that was so – there were 1.5 D-marks and 4 D-marks of subsidies. What does it accomplish? – One achieves a breakup of the markets. This means that we have a degree of self-sufficiency in beef, which is far more than 100 percent of what we consume in Europe. What do you do with these cattle mountains? – They are subsidized and exported to the Third World. What happens in the Third World? - We'll break the markets there. At the same time, the EU also subsidizes cattle farms, cold-houses and so on. – So: On the one hand, we break the markets with our funds, on the other hand we subsidize something that can never work because we have just intervened. This is a distortion! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] – One must see this on a global level and not only can the Austrian be recognized in it. I think that we should work with other means. One should agree on which products are to be promoted at all. – When I was in the European Parliament, with over 1.5 billion – at that time ECU – the tobacco industry became a tobacco that nobody wanted to smoke, except for, so to speak, a few exodus. What do I spend money on products that no human wants? – Clearly, the taste of Europeans in tobacco has more focused on America. So what do you spend money for? – One should promote the farmers who produce tobacco, namely the changeover. One should not provide a sum for a year, but give them the opportunity to actually change. That means that for ten years – no matter how they want to spend it – one should make a sum available so that these growing areas can be broken once and then set new plants. It'll take ten years for these to wear. This is an offensive policy, and such a policy should be pursued, but it must not be continued with subsidies once determined. This leads us to the dilemma that we do not get out of this 47 percent agricultural support. Nearly 47 percent of the EU budget is spent on agriculture, which accounts for 5 percent of the EU's workforce. Solidarity also has an end. Why doesn't a single mother get the same attention? Why does a silkworm breeder receive more subsidies than all support for women's employment initiatives? - That's a distortion! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] That's not right anymore! Social cohesion should be restored, and social cohesion can only work with everyone. We need basic protection for farmers who do a job that we all appreciate. We should do this and not continue to support subsidies billionaires and billionaires. There's enough of that! They broke up all the markets. You can read about the chaos it leads to, for example, in the area of sugar one for Europe holds the threads in hand. In conclusion: I believe that we should support the path taken by Commissioner Fischler, who has examined this thoroughly and certainly with sufficient sensitivity. I therefore ask that farmers not be unsure, but that they be able to provide basic protection.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4686	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4707	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! High house! I think it is necessary, in view of a natural disaster, which has appalled us all and which is sad, to question pro-futuro, what can be done in the field of environmental and agricultural policy - agricultural policy is an important part of environmental policy - so that, in the future, at least human resources can be done to prevent such disasters. Mr Schwarzböck referred to the right principles necessary for agriculture in the future, namely the ecological and ethical principle. Ladies and gentlemen! Only: A consistent ecological and ethical principle throughout the agricultural policy, especially in the whole of the support policy, unfortunately I cannot and cannot see from the Greens. It is true that in Austria we have a very high proportion of organic farms, but this principle is not a continuous one. What is always being signalled to us by the agricultural representatives, especially those of the EIA, and what is above all the heart of the agricultural policy in Brussels, is that the policy and the support instruments are left open to all sides. But that can't go well in the long run. One cannot promote a little genetic technique and also preach a little ecology. You can't keep a bit of ethics up on the organic farming farms and you can continue to buy the whole suffering and the bottomless scandal in connection with the long-distance transports of animals, for example of slaughter cattle, seeing eyes – and put more and more money in there! The main error of the European agricultural policy, which affects the Austrian farmers, is export subsidies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This world market orientation is the capital mistake, and it only affects a small proportion of international agricultural production, about 10 percent in the field of meat and milk production. Because of these 10 percent, billions of funding carousels are kept in operation, in which illegal, illegal payments are always carried out. Because of this 10 percent, the national, the domestic production is ultimately abandoned. That at the same time huge transport flows are being kept in motion and that these transport flows have a significant responsibility for the generation of exhaust gases, for the pollution of the environment close to the ground, and therefore a significant co-responsibility for the forest dying, which makes the mountain areas unsafe in winter, you know. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein: Well, well!]] Mr Umweltminister! You don't need to blame here! I said: Co-responsible, and that there is, you may not be able to abdicate. Federal Minister! I do not know why you are appealing, because there can be no interest in maintaining this billions of subsidies carousel at the expense of Austrian agriculture in terms of a dubious world market. I say the following to you: This Laviering between different funding principles – organic farms here, world market orientation there – always leads to blurring attitudes; also in the field of genetic engineering, where the dubious machinations of the Genlobby and of corporations such as Monsanto become more evident every day. Well-known science, scientists who are made mouth-to-mouth: All of this is also linked to this unclear demarcation. That is why I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, just in times like this: Within the framework of the Federal Government, work to ensure that what ÖVP politicians like to conjure up as a lip commitment is also the only reality of promotion practice!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4749	This concludes the current hour. In accordance with § 103 of the Rules of Procedure, I have been required to impose an order for the expression "men of the peasantry". I do not want to warm up the mood now, but I say to Mr Wenitsch: One can certainly also articulate such sharp political criticism in other words, and I would ask for it most urgently. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4773	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 4831/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4972	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on Question No 4831/AB on Question No 5187/J by Mr Mag. Dr. Fekter and comrades on the actions of the judicial authorities in the Causa Rieger-Bank by the Federal Minister for Justice. This short debate will take place at 3 p.m. within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure and after no urgent question has been raised today. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e4996	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Dr Kier has asked the Constitutional Committee to report to Parliament on the motion for a resolution (901/A) by Dr Kier and others concerning the amendment of the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria to victims of National Socialism until 23. ==References====External links== In this context, there is also a desire to hold a short debate on this deadline request. This short debate will take place after the debate on the question has just been announced, and immediately after the end of the debate, the vote will be taken on this request for a deadline. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5023	As far as today's agenda is concerned, I would like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 4, 5 and 6, 7 to 10, 11 to 14 and 17 to 21 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5048	We are now going into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates throughout the agenda for today. Accordingly, a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be found on such a procedure. I therefore ask: Are there objections to these block times? - That's not the case. That's what it's decided to do. 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs pursuant to § 19 para. 2 GoG on fuel price
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5084	In this sense we reach the 1st. Agenda item. Following the declaration by the Federal Minister, a debate will take place within the meaning of § 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request signed by five Members. I can now give the floor to the Minister of State to give his statement. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5111	Mr President. High house! I would like to start by saying a few words about the tragic situation in some winter sports venues in a slight deviation from my overall theme. Our compassion, the compassion of the Federal Government, including our support, applies during these hours to the local population, to the included tourists, to the employees and to the entrepreneurs of the economy. They are not only under great mental and physical pressure, but many see their future plans threatened or even destroyed. I would particularly like to remember the victim who was injured or lost her life. Special participation is required for you and the families concerned. I am grateful to all those who are tirelessly engaged in the rescue and security efforts. The way of dealing with disasters may once again show how much solidarity has been developed in our country. The crisis staff activated by the Federal Chancellor will take comprehensive precautions and assistance measures. I can now come to the subject: High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been repeatedly invited by various economic groups, interest groups, by regional and federal politicians in recent times, to intervene in the price policy of the Austrian mineral oil industry damping and shaping. In this context, I have repeatedly pointed out that, in view of the competitive situation, the use of the existing antitrust procedure would be appropriate. According to a study on the Austrian fuel market led by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, I am not ready to explain in advance: First: There is a significant competitive deficit in the Austrian fuel market. Secondly, The net prices for fuels are excessive and must be lowered under the circumstances. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A reduction in fuel prices is a measure which, above all, benefits all citizens, travellers, and transport-intensive industries, overall over the inflation-reducing effects. Thirdly, In the course of the current debate, it will also be a matter of forcing the use of bio-sprit and biodiesel in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Final consumer prices for mineral oil products, especially those for driving petrol and diesel fuels, have always been a politically sensitive matter. During the post-war period and up to the last decades, these major energy sources were the subject of the official price system, which was not released until the beginning of the 1980s. As part of the deregulation provisions at the social partners level, control in the field of the Joint Committee has also been reduced. However, there is a public impression that the price of petrol must be determined by the public authorities, the state or politics. In this context, allow me some clarifications. We know enough about this sector of the economy from the decades of experience in the price system, but the new rules of the Price Act, which have, above all, been published on competition, have not been sufficiently explored. In the present case, I would point out that there were three options available to economic policy: Firstly, the application of the antitrust law. Secondly, to take market-compliant measures to strengthen competition. – This can be an increased transparency, but also a general change in the framework conditions that I will be able to talk about later on. Thirdly, that is least for me personally to say openly: the return to the official price system. To this end, it should be noted that: First: Against the abuse of a dominant position in the market, the official parties in Austria – those are the financial procuratorships and chambers – can work. However, these have not become active. I admit that the evidence, as we now see from this study, is extremely complicated for normal legal practitioners and would probably have been the result of long procedures. Secondly, In 1990, my predecessor between the economic sector and the mineral oil industry agreed on the well-known sectoral agreement, known as "glass bags". This Convention sets out the reporting of certain data, such as import prices, processing costs and wholesale prices. However, it lacked economic indicators. My predecessor Dr. Ditz – by the way also on the request of the Federal Chamber of Labour – put it out of power. Thirdly, The activation of the official price regime is only possible under certain conditions under the current regulations of § 5 of the Price Act. When this discussion broke out, I was commissioned to carry out a study by Professor Puwein, an analytical presentation of the competitive elements of the Austrian fuel market, instead of continuing to engage in discussions on reporting systems for petrol prices. This contract was awarded in April 1998. In March, the Federal Labour Chamber submitted an application pursuant to § 5 for an investigation procedure under the Price Act, so that both of these things met. Now let me say a few words about § 5 Preisgesetz. § 5 Price Act gives the Minister of Economic Affairs of its own initiative little scope for action. I have to wait for a request from the parties under the Price Act and a recommendation from the Price Commission itself. There is still the limitation that a price regulation is only possible if the abuse cannot be eliminated by market-compliant measures. You will see, in my later remarks, that market-compliant measures are hardly effective in the short term due to the complexity of their introduction and the timeliness. Let me make a few comments on the current status of the proceedings: I presented the Wifo study at the same time as I presented it to the parties to the public procedure. The procedure is now in the phase where the author's reply is still to be expected from the mineral oil industry. Let me sum up briefly what the study has found: Austria's fuel grid prices are Europe's top. Austria is one of the countries with the highest net prices for fuels within the OECD. Eurosuper was almost 50 percent more expensive in Austria in the annual average of 1997, while diesel fuel was 70 percent more expensive than in the cheapest OECD country. In this context, I would like to refer to my written statements regarding an international price comparison for petrol and diesel fuels. In the period 1985-1997, Eurosuper net cost 40 per cent, diesel fuel by 26 per cent more than in Germany. In Austria, fuel prices reacted to changes in the Rohilfreise much weaker than in Germany. The monthly fluctuations in fuel prices were almost 50 percent stronger in Germany than in Austria. A 10 percent change in the Rohilfreise regularly caused a 5 per cent change in Germany, in Austria a only 3 per cent change in fuel prices from petrol station, without taxes. There are large regional price differences in Austria itself. I would like to mention again: Eurosuper is 25 percent more expensive in Tyrol than in Vienna. The above study concluded that the location factors cannot explain the high price level. I do not want to go into the document known to you in detail, but let me comment clearly on the author's conclusions on competition policy. Because of the fact that the fuel market in Austria is being challenged essentially by six "majors", as it is so beautiful, by six large and a smaller number of "outsiders", we clearly have an oligopol structure. This oligopol structure uses the system of funnel price formation to make price reductions of "outsiders" as effective as possible and to bring them to price adjustment, to adapt to the policy of the "majors". Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion showed that the response of the mineral oil industry was mainly geared to the following problems: in Austria, there is a ban on unmanned automatic filling stations, there are too many exceptions concerning gas commuting, a liberalisation of the range and the opening hours of the gas stations, There are also other wishes as regards various requirements. Let me say clearly: First: I have already told my House to take all necessary measures to remove this existing ban as regards the repeal of the actual ban on unmanned automatic filling stations. – One-sided intermediate performance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I will ensure, in the discussion with the national governments, that we do not grant any further extension of the exemptions in the field of gas commuting lines, in order not to give any further Alibis for such price strategies. Thirdly, As far as the amendments relating to the range of petrol stations and sales areas are concerned, I am dependent on the fact that there are legal changes. Because of the way in which – I remember – how emotionally this issue was occupied in connection with the last Industrial Code Novelle, I do not think there will be a solution in this regard quickly. Let me also say clearly: I don't understand a local supply discussion from the title "Treivy Prices". Therefore, two options for the next few weeks, ladies and gentlemen: What can happen? - The one point is: If the Price Commission trusts in market-compliant measures and recommends that I rely on market conformity, then the time horizon is different from when the Price Commission concludes that, as I believe, the market-compliant funds need a longer period of implementation, so that the recommendation of an official price scheme is made. But I'll add: I call on the relevant mineral oil industry not to let it come to pass, but to spare us such a struggle by voluntary acceptance of the inevitable need in a market economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very glad that the OMC yesterday authorized me to inform you here that an unbundling in the company will be carried out without delay for balance sheet technical reasons and that one is willing to present the results in this respect to the public in the future. This would remove one of the main errors of the transparency model at that time. I hope that the OMC will also receive your recognition and that we will also be able to take a step towards a more transparent, faster price policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that my report in this House will not only contribute to greater clarity, but it will also strengthen the necessary public pressure so that market-compliant adjustments of petrol prices in the interest of the population that I have already mentioned will be speeded up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5293	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Firlinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5320	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent – so it seems to me, especially at the highly sensitive point "Treivy prices in Austria". [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Your favorite quote!]] Federal Minister! I can ask you: Where are your concrete actions? – From time to time, you have placed a number of announcements publicly again and again, but it has been implemented by all that you have promised us for some time, actually nothing or very little. Federal Minister! A report by a car organization confirms to you that in the field of fuel pricing and influence by the Federal Ministry, through your ministry, there has actually been only Push for eight years. We used to have the official price scheme, then it was lifted, and there was the model of the "glass bags", but this too was cancelled. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we have the highest final consumer prices in this sector. I would ask you, Minister of State, to take note of these facts and finally to recognize the command of action. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to see what is "packed" in fuel prices, I would like to inform the House of what it has to do with the various taxes. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The speech was already prepared!]] Mineral oil tax: There the Austrians, the milk cows of the nation – the Austrian drivers, the private households, the participants in professional traffic – pay 35.6 billion schilling. Standard consumption levy: 5.4 billion schilling. Motor vehicle tax: 1.7 billion schilling. Motor insurance tax: 9.8 billion schilling. Road use: 1 billion Schilling. Then there will be toll and vignette, Minister of State: 6.2 billion schilling. This totals 58.9 billion schilling. With this share, the Austrian final consumer prices are enormously taxed. Each household is moaning under this burden – but you do nothing except a few announcements. Minister of State, with permission: That's not enough for me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But the few things you have announced, Mr Federal Minister, do not agree with me, because I am strictly opposed to the reintroduction of the official price system. She didn't do anything in the past. Why would she bring something today? In addition, the crude oil companies, including the OMC, do not take their announcements very seriously. They have never taken this very seriously in the past either. The fact is that the trip to Rohil has reached a historical depth, Minister of State. When I look at how prices have moved in recent years, I note: from 18 dollars per barrel or barrel at first 13 dollars and now – only these days, in February – at 10.18 dollars as a price for Brent oil on the spot market. This is the lowest price for about nine years. [[Abg. Kiss: And what is your answer?]] There is, Mr Federal Minister, I think there is a need for action, especially since the experts know very well that fuel is a price-insensitive asset. This means that, when fuel prices rise, consumer behaviour does not change, because there is little change in the behaviour of car drivers in terms of fuel consumption in Austria, and in some cases there is a bad infrastructure in Austria. That is why it is less about waving with the official price system, Mr Federal Minister, but there must be some other measures. First: Once again, since we in Austria simply do not have enough competition, make a competitive complaint! Don't just announce it, bring it. You're actually filed a competitive complaint! I can't hear the announcement. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Firlinger hasn't understood what the Minister said again!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Second point: We have considerable disadvantages in terms of liberalisation in this sector. On the one hand On the other hand, there are too many gas stations – we know that is known, because of course there must be a shrinking process – and on the other hand, the gas stations are simply not allowed to sell some things. Compared to Switzerland, compared to Germany, there are untimely regulations as regards the ancillary business, and therefore the calculation of the gas stations is not true. In this respect, Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to take the approach, but not to put a hollow threat in the room. It is also a matter of course of serious questioning with the tax. You're in the government yourself, you can't talk to Minister of Finance Edlinger. That wouldn't be enough for me! The third point is, of course, that you are acting on the Austrian mineral oil administration, the OMC, which, with an over-dominant market share, is still in a dominant position in Austria, and not just reading any protocols, which are going to influence the fact that the OMC will actually react more flexibly if a price decline occurs. There you will always be there, if there are price increases, immediately with an increase, but then, when the Roe-Hilfe trip expires, you won't do anything for a long time until it slowly comes to a slight break down at the price front. I think it is extremely important to address these three points. This would relieve the taxpayers enormously. In view of three savings packages that you are responsible for, and given the enormous burden on the energy price sector – as an example, I would just like to mention the electricity price – it would be high time to put concrete action into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5420	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5441	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If Mr Farnleitner says that, despite his well-known basic position, which is based on the market economy, he will not be afraid to make use of the legal possibilities granted to him in the gas price regulation, then we know that this finding is not easy for him, ladies and gentlemen, because he confesses himself and we commit ourselves to the social market economy by the ÖVP. We don't easily deal with dirigistic instruments. For regulatory reasons, we have no pleasure in the official price system, and as an EU Member State we also know in Austria that this is no longer a contemporary instrument for pricing. But if the Minister of Economic Affairs puts this rod in the window, then obviously fire is on the roof. It is extremely necessary to take these measures as well, and we expressly note that, of course, we are fully in favour of the Minister of Economic Affairs when he takes appropriate measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are committed to market and competition as a price regulator for various goods and services. There is no better and more efficient instrument for this than a functioning market and a corresponding competition from suppliers. That's what we're standing for! But that's exactly where the problem lies. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: We have no market!]] We do not have sufficient competition, and there is no functioning market, no sufficiently functioning market mechanism in the fuel sector. The Federal Minister pointed out this, and the Wifo study also showed it. The reason lies in the fact that in Austria there is a central undertaking in the oil industry – the OMV – which for a long time has been owned by the Austrian state, that there is only a refinery owned exclusively by the OMV, that a single rohelpipeline is available for the supply of this refinery, and that crude oil is processed only by the OMV and the subsidiaries in Austria – such as BP, Esso, Shell, Agip et cetera – and that the fuel market in Austria shares six major players and among them the OMC plays the dominant role with its refinery, as well as at the same time owners of the largest gas station network. Ladies and gentlemen! Monopolies and oligopolization instead of free play of market forces and instead of efficient competition: That's how it looks in Austria! We shouldn't take that any more. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Clear, competitive measures and structures must be developed to ensure that Austria quickly listens to the past, which is black and white in the Wifo study. The Austrian drivers are in a way the milk cows of the nation, but, Mr Firlinger, they are not primarily tax-related, as you meant, because while Austria is at the top of the final consumer prices, taxation of fuels is only in the European middle. The problem is, rather, the Austrian net prices for fuels, i.e. prices without taxes. That is the problem! If German fuel prices were to apply in Austria, consumers could save around 6.5 billion schilling each year. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the countries with the highest net prices for fuels within the OECD. With Eurosuper, the difference to the Federal Republic of Germany is 1 S, with Super to Switzerland is 66 Groschen. We can't take that! But also within Austria there are large differences in fuel prices at the tap. In the western Länder, the price level is generally higher than in the east of our country. At the beginning of 1998, the net prices for Eurosuper in Tyrol were 25 percent higher than those in Vienna. This can also be attributed, and above all, to the different market shares of small gas station operators. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this can't be explained with location differences either. We believe that, at last, the agreement cartel of the mineral oil companies must be broken down, competition must be stimulated and fuel prices must be reduced at least to the Swiss level. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Novotny]] [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Who is the Minister responsible?]] There's no way past that! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, the former members of the OMC Group and current members of the government, Mr. Bundeskanzler Klima, Mr. State Secretary Ruttenstorfer and Mr. Federal Minister One, at last also the OMC will have to kick the toes instead of making it the wall all the time! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must be clear to the gentlemen that they changed their job and are now at the head of the Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] They have the interests of consumers to preserve, they are no longer at the head of the largest gas station lease company in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is a need for action and, in particular, the support of the Minister of Economic Affairs in its measures to strengthen competition and to reduce overprices on the mineral oil market. That is why I would like to ask these gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Peter: "Please, please, low prices"! That's the way it's going to be!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are also political forces in Austria who support the oil companies in their high-price policy and who will do so in a very concrete way with their policies if they allow the corresponding political constellations. I mean, above all, the Greens, and among them, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Petrovic. In 1995, before the last National Council election, she said: I am committed to rigorous redistribution in the budget question. Energy prices, namely for all forms of energy, petrol, heating oil, must be significantly increased year after year. 1 litre of fuel could cost 20 s in a few years. [[Ah-rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: But luckily, that doesn't count!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic also said: The Greens want to take on government responsibility! and added that she would be personally available for the post of Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: A dangerous threat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This willingness to take over government responsibility is a dangerous threat to Austrian drivers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A red-green traffic lights coalition would clearly mean the end of a stable economic and social situation in Austria, given the green and economic plans in general and a burden on all energy prices in particular. The red-green coalition in Germany is already in its approach to energy policy and its so-called eco-social tax policy. We can thank these examples and examples in Austria – also and especially in the interest of taxpayers and drivers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us not give up, ladies and gentlemen, on the promotion of bioenergy. The use of biodiesel and bio-sprit is not yet sufficiently secured in Austria. That is why we agree that up to 2% of the fuel will be added to this fuel. This would relieve both the environment and create additional jobs in agriculture as well as strengthen Austria's technology location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These forward-looking ways should be taken quickly. We support any initiative by the Ministers Farnleitner and Molterer in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5599	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5620	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the past there were revolutions because of bread prices, today beer prices and fuel prices are the sensitive prices that even lead to parliament meetings. The fuel price is obviously even more important than the beer price. It is so important for the Federal Minister to make his own statement and to hear appeals to the oil industry here in the House. Mr Kukacka lays down and grumbles about oligopoles and market control, about agreement cartels he wants to break up. But why don't you talk about cartel law, Mr. Kukacka? – The Federal Government made a novel to cartel law four years ago. But this cartel in the antitrust law is for smearing. You know that this novel is in the antitrust law! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] It is a social partnership structure in which the social partners are not only the prosecutors, but also experts and judges, not only in the antitrust court. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Yes!]] It has now been prepared by the Ministry of Justice for antitrust law, which will soon come to the High House here. However, this will not change again, Mr Federal Minister, in your speech on price policy you have not lost a word about the fact that we in Austria have a antitrust right which does not actually exist. We have a antitrust law that originates from the Stone Age of the market economy. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Leave You hold me very clearly: It is of course the task of policy to create framework conditions for the markets. You know that, Dr. Farnleitner, much better than everyone else here in the House because you are a highly educated economist. In addition, it is up to policy to prevent companies from doing what they like to do, namely to become monopolists or oligopolists. Mr. Kukacka! There is nothing to do with yelling from the speaker's mouth towards the public, and you have to break the agreement cartel. – Tell me, Mr Kukacka, how you want to break it up! Let me say that you and the Austrian People's Party with the Social Democrats are the brakers that there is no reasonable antitrust right! By the way, I do not understand this at all with the Social Democrats: Why don't you have the courage to really introduce a cartel attorney's position in Austria as it is possible in a cultivated market economy? This antitrust attorney should be established in the Ministry of Justice and have the same rights as a public prosecutor. He should therefore be able to take action on a case-by-case basis, from whomever point of view. Federal Minister! If you were correctly quoted in the magazine "FORMAT", that would also be your policy. They have not said anything about this spectacle on fuel prices, which is of course necessary in pre-election periods, because the fuel price is a sensitive price. I expected you to say: I, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of Austria, have my nose full! I have the nose full of the game of oligopoliss of the mineral oil industry and of the secret cartel they have formed. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He said!]] I will give this Republic a right of cartel, which will really enable us to do so without appeals and other roundings – what is the use of appeals in the economy when it comes to money? – create a legal situation in which a cartel lawyer can intervene. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] If one listens to the arguments of the mineral oil industry, one must say that there are a number of arguments that one should also appreciate. It is not only the task of politics and the economy to set conditions and ensure compliance with competition, but also to create the same basic conditions. But through your policy – of course, via higher taxes on fuels – you have partially ruined petrol stations at the borders of Austria. No question at all! They have contributed by the tax difference on diesel and gasoline, which can only be explained by the milling lobby, to the fact that today 50 percent of the cars are driving diesel. These are interventions in the market you've made. Has They made it by chance – or was that a promotion of BMW's diesel engine plant in Steyr? You have, of course, given gas stations different cost conditions than they exist abroad over expensive conditions. It's just ridiculous if you can still sell beer in gas stations after 6.30 p.m. or 7.30 p.m., but milk, which is also on the shelf, can no longer be sold, because there is a shop opening and operating time regulation and other nonsense. Let the gas stations sell what customers want! And only what customers want will the gas stations also sell. You know that as well as I do. Let her earn cover! They will be able to go down with the petrol prices if they are once again hit by a real antitrust law and threatened with a case-law presentation with the antitrust attorney who checks the case and passes it on to the cartel court – today the Oberlandesgericht Wien – which then, like any other court, decides in a criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing has to be clear: A secret antitrust language, an outlaw of the market – and I know what I am saying here – is an act of economic crime. This is a criminal action against the market, against other providers and against consumers. But with appeals and pious sayings, we won't be able to continue there! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let me conclude with a few further considerations on competition. Why do we liberalize competition in the electricity industry only up to nine gigawatt hours? Why do we not have the courage, as other European countries have, to implement a genuine liberalisation? – Only the market lowers the costs! Only the market will find the cheapest and best solution for consumers! Only the market is able to find the optimal solution if, in politics, we give markets the appropriate framework conditions and ensure a corresponding antitrust guarantee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5696	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Merchant. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5717	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is nice, Mr Minister, that, after years of hesitation, after persistent resistance, you will finally accept the issue of petrol and diesel prices. A late realization is always better than none at all. I can only remind you that the AK and the automobile clubs have been demanding for years that something be done at last against the overly high diesel and petrol prices. Of course, a functioning market is better than a price scheme. However, if the market does not work in this sector and cannot be brought into operation, a price regulation must not be a taboo issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is what you are saying, Minister. You too are now taking this attitude. I can remind you that this was not always the case. There are several broadcasts on your part in which you have declared the price arrangement to be terminated. There are statements by the Secretary-General of the ÖVP, who meant that price regulation was a step back, et cetera, et cetera. – Price regulation must not be a taboo subject if a market does not work. I hope we can agree on this. Mr. Minister! The fact that this market does not work has long been claimed by the interests of workers. At last, this shows a study that has been carried out. You mentioned the numbers yourself. The net price for Eurosuper is 50 percent, diesel is 70 percent more expensive than in the cheapest EU country. Eurosuper's net tax price is 40 percent, that of Diesel by 26 percent more expensive than in Germany. At present, Eurosuper prices are by 80 sizes and diesel by 60 sizes above the EU price level. The oil industry repeatedly argues that this is due to the specificity of the Austrian gas station structure, namely the topographic position and the relatively dense gas station network. The study shows very clearly that these Austrian characteristics explain 20 percent of the price difference at best, because in Austria we are still significantly above the price level such as Switzerland. There is therefore no open market, because just six companies dominate the market. [[Abg. May. Peter: Why don't you use antitrust procedures as a party?]] – I am going to talk to you about this, Mr Peter. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Go ahead, deputies! Say it right now!]] Six companies dominate the market. Even the gas station owners, who complain in large numbers with us but always want to remain anonymous because they are under considerable pressure from the oil industry, are in high dependence and actually have no room for pricing at all. Once a free gas station reduces the fuel price, immediately in the surrounding area, as we have found, the price is also reduced within hours in order to bet the behaviour of the one. The study mentions the formation of the funnel price. I think we can talk more about a behavioural cartel on this point. The oil industry is very often complaining – and you have also said that, Mr Peter, – of the unfavourable starting point of the gas station shops. It is unfavourable, but I doubt that through better mobility, more freedom at gas station shops, fuel prices would actually become lower. The competitive situation is not in favour. If that were the case, the bus stations, which have the largest shops, would have to be the cheapest suppliers. However, we know that exactly the opposite is the case. [[Abg. May. Peter: We don't have to get on the highway!]] We can also note that the owners of the gas station shops have no room, Mr Minister. They are actually determined at the prices at which they buy and at the prices at which they sell. A gas station tenant has no room in his shop. You should also accept this problem, Minister. Finally, the fact that the price fluctuations in Austria were only half as large as those in Germany shows that the market simply does not work. What can you do about it now? – You can look on the one hand and be satisfied, just as this has been done for a long time. This costs the Austrians 3 billion schilling each year. That's the way we don't want, and now you're going a new one. On the other hand, there can be some kind of lip recognition, as Mr Kukacka has done, who meant that the Federal Chancellor should step on the toes of the OVM. On the other hand, I wonder where a stock company has toes, I must say that Mr Kukacka probably does not know the stock law at all. It is not possible in the Stocks Act to influence the Management Board and pricing from the government side. Finally, it is a question of creating a functioning market, in particular by means of antitrust measures, and it is a question of starting, if this functioning market cannot be created in the short term, to work with measures of the price regime. In the antitrust law, it will be necessary, in particular, to redefine the behavioural cartel and to clarify that this is also prohibited. It is also necessary to ensure that the amendment to the antitrust law at least makes it relatively easy to initiate a procedure in order to reduce the real major obstacles now in place to prove a behavioural cartel. We need to be able to actually initiate procedures, because that is hardly possible at this time. Minister! You have not clearly and clearly stated in your statement what path you want to take in the future. I ask for stone and clearly the following: If prices for petrol and diesel are not reduced within a very short period of time – voluntarily reduced by the mineral oil industry – then you must quickly complete the ongoing procedure within the price commission, introduce a price scheme and bring the fuel and diesel price to a fair EU level. I assume that this price reduction must be significantly higher than 40 tonnes per litre and that this must also be a price which ensures that jobs in the Austrian oil industry can be secured. Minister! In the medium and long term, however, it is not about price regulation – we agree – but about the functioning market. In principle, there are only two methods to deal with this. Claims, appeals and disregard for the Stocks Act are certainly not the right way. It is about creating transparency. The automobile clubs and we publish weekly the cheapest and the most expensive gas stations on the Internet. Minister! You should make your promise to publish the 20 cheapest and the 20 most expensive gas stations, based on the reports of the mineral oil industry. It is necessary that the antitrust law be re-regulated, in particular that the question of the behavioural cartel be re-examined. Minister! If we are already dealing with the issue of functioning competition and the antitrust law, I must conclude by saying that this is not only relevant to the fuel price, which is currently a subject, but that there are still many areas in Austria in which we could benefit from more competition. For example, I call the debate that we have started on exchange fees for banks, where the exchange within the euro currencies after the introduction of the euro has become more expensive and not cheaper for small amounts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: What did the Ruttenstorfer claim on TV? - The opposite!]] I call natural gas price formation, I call electricity price formation for households et cetera. It is therefore a reasonable antitrust right which should be decided relatively quickly in this House. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5834	Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5855	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with the matter myself, I would like to say something about the very first speech by Mr Farnleitner and also his previous speaker Federal Minister Bartenstein. The fact that the entire National Council is mourning about the victims of Galtür today has already expressed President Fischer in our name. I have no desire to listen to this disaster on this day by every Minister of the Public Health and Consumer Protection. I find that at least depleted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: This is an impotence! That's embarrassing!]] – It was really embarrassing, Mrs. Colleague. [[New condolences with the greens.]] Now on the question of petrol and diesel prices, which Mr Farnleitner has addressed here. The fact that the net prices in the oil trade are overly high or very high in international terms, Mr Federal Minister, has been known for many years. This is documented in each quarterly report of the International Energy Agency and OECD reports. I myself have held press conferences on this. The Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, if I am not mistaken, has always discussed this again and again, but without a consequence, namely, to file a cartel complaint. [[Abg. May. Peter: That's it!]] The fact that, as Minister Farnleitner rightly said, it is an oligopolis, and it has not been possible to accept price agreements since the release of prices, has been known to us for about 15 years now. Prior to that, price agreements were not necessary because the official price arrangement was nothing but an official price cartel. This was probably even better for the oil industry. Federal Minister! I'm wondering about a point. Of course, we share your view that the price situation at the so-called net prices, i.e. without taxes, is problematic and that net prices need to be reduced as far as possible. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No more 35 S per litre!]] Of course! But I am surprised that you say almost nothing about gross prices. Should we really conclude from your statement that your road transport policy is simply to reduce petrol, super-fuel, diesel and so on, and that's all? We have been discussing tax reform issues for at least one year. Mr Kukacka! – Unfortunately, he disappeared. [[Abg. May. Kukacka is just entering the meeting room.]] - He's up there. We have, of course, noted for a long time that the ÖVP has adopted its economic concept at the time and that it unfortunately does not support an eco-social tax reform concept. We already know that. In view of the black and red agreements, a dangerous threat to us – and you will understand this – is less the prospect of the Greens coming to the government, but a dangerous threat to me – I am telling you in all friendship – would be a Minister of Transport or Minister of Road Construction Kukacka. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I understand!]] I can give it back in the same form. They try here in a very superficial way to put the greens into the 5-D mark case. Mr Kukacka! You'll never bring us into this trap. I will not be able to make you read our tax reform model at last, but perhaps only as a hint that even the VOEST steel, which is, if I am not mistaken, located in your constituency, would benefit from our tax reform model and that private households would be taxed at the rate of 1 : 1 for the increase in energy prices. You know everything, but They are doing a bit of an election campaign here and are trying to win two additional votes in this way. This is a little simple, Mr Kukacka. [[Congratulations to the Greens and Members of the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Minister Farnleitner! The fact that you're popularizing the Wifo study here is okay. I am always pleased when such studies are announced to the wider public. But if you make an extra statement here according to § 19 GOG, I expect you to not just talk about the net prices in the mineral oil industry – this is a thing that has been known for 15 years; at least! – but I expect you to say what a transport policy concept you have. I expect you to say how these things are integrated into your perspective on road construction, railway construction et cetera, for which you are responsible in your department. I expect you to pass the antitrust law simply with a sentence that says: We have not yet applied it! I expect a Minister of Economic Affairs to address the reform of antitrust law once in a way that can be said: We have a antitrust law that meets international standards. You also know that with your experience in this matter much better than I do. What remains of your explanation? – It remains the threat – which at the same time, however, is weakened by the statement that you did not want it anyway, that it was your favorite, to you – with the official price arrangement. The oil industry would not be so unloving, because then it would have a seal of goodness on that policy that it is currently operating. Then we would have an officially prescribed cartel, and the mineral oil industry would write the maximum prices you have approved on their gas stations. That's all! "Plenty of pleasure!" I can only say to that. And the second, which remains, is an appeal to the oil industry for voluntary cooperation. C’est tout! Mr Federal Minister, this is in high German good enough for 14 days of election, but more than one air bubble is not. If you already make a declaration according to § 19 – that is something special anyway – then you expect something more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5961	Mr Farnleitner has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e5982	Mr President. High house! I would particularly like to make a few clarifications on the speeches made by Mr Peter and Mr Van der Bellen. My attitude to the antitrust law is sufficiently documented, as I have seen from many Members' newspaper cuts. I have never made a locust of the fact that the Austrian antitrust law cannot remain in the present version, because it de facto means a abandonment of Austrian sovereignty and a complete shift of this competence to Brussels. I can tell you that according to my experience in the cases of Billa, Rewe and others. That's clear! Nothing changes at all in this position of mine. – That would be the first point. Second point: We had earlier, for other reasons, in all the difficulties in introducing the social market economy in Austria – since we were already social before we introduced the market – clearly also the phenomenon that coordinated behaviour and behaviour cartels were regulated in the antitrust law in such a way that a registration procedure was initiated only through an advertisement. That is why I was with the driving force – I just didn't want to interfere with the Minister of Justice – that in the novelle which is now under discussion, the current rules of conduct cannot remain. Indeed, behavioural cartels mean that the adaptation behaviour in Austria can de facto become more or less highly targeted playable. I would add two other comments. I am saying this almost silly now, but I have been a co-author of the Price Act for years, and we have taken away the possibility of official price arrangements for mineral oil fuels from the former price ministers in § 5. That is what I want to repeat here, because it has also been completely negated by Mr Firlinger! The Minister of Price is bound to a request that others must make to him in order to be able to act at all. He can't arrange a price from himself. So I repeat my wish: Whoever approaches me should, if he seriously believes it, apply for a cartel proceedings or make an application in accordance with § 5. This request according to § 5 came only in the previous year after we had agreed on the study. That was two clarifications. In the direction of Mr. Professor Van der Bellen said clearly: My road construction plans will be sent to the House in Bälde, since in the next few weeks I will present in the government itself what I call the Donau-European road concept and thus enter the hearing on the Federal Road Law. I believe that it is very useful to adapt the Austrian vein system to the new conditions in the Danube economy. It's a track. The second is that in energy price policy we will not go the way of the German neighbor. You are already sufficiently informed about this. I believe that the start to an eco-social tax system will not take place in this reform. I can tell you this as a participant in the round of negotiations. We will be talking about this for a very long time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6023	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Mühlbachler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6044	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Van der Bellen, I really did not find it appropriate for you to comment on the comments of two members of the government on Galtür's accident in this way. In my opinion, of course, it is also the responsibility of the government to deliver an opinion on this, and of course it is also the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs to refer to it. That is why I think it is very appropriate for Mr Farnleitner to deliver an opinion from this point of view. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder about the course of today's discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Yes, me too!]] The Minister of Economic Affairs is carrying out his task on the basis of an investigation, brings the issue of "excessed fuel prices" to Parliament, and – see! – a number of Members turn to the speaker's desk and say: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, why bring Just now why haven't you been acting for a long time? – I have to ask: Do the Members not know the legal situation? The Minister for Economic Affairs has already repeated for the second time how the legislation is and how he cannot become active on his own. With regard to the demands for a change in the antitrust law, I would therefore ask the Minister of Justice to deal with it in order to bring about such changes. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You appeal to yourself! You admit that you did not act in 14 years of great coalition!]] I think the argument can't go any further than it is now presented here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: For five years it has been prevented by you!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Barmüller and Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mr Haigermoser! As we are talking about obstacles, I would like to highlight very clearly and clearly the following: The FPÖ's opinion on price regulation has been very well presented by Mr Firlinger. [[Abg. Hans Helmut Moser: Now you come and want to change laws! You've had time for years!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now we're to blame, aren't we?]] He said: There must be something to be done, but we do not want price regulation! – That’s how he expressed it. I now ask: What did he mean by that? [[Abg. Haigermoser: But not about the antitrust law!]] – Probably he didn't want to say anything! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it was really necessary and that today we are talking about mineral oil prices. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Many listeners are right to leave the gallery because they don't want to hear it anymore!]] And I think one... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Please talk about the beer prices! You know more about it!]] That's right, that was my metier, and that's why I understand something about the beer price. But I would like to tell you the following, Mr Dkfm. Bauer [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's half a price today?]] I think it is absolutely necessary, because of today's debate, for legislative changes to be introduced and for drivers to be taken into account more than ever, by articulate their interests in Parliament and introducing appropriate legislative proposals. [[Abg. Smolle: He is there to bring in government drafts!]] I am very much in favour of the fact that, in a short time, as opposed to the "Master Plan" of Dr. To a "Master Plan" by Minister Farnleitner, a "Master Plan" is being passed on to Parliament, because, and I would like to stress this, an adoption of road from the mode of transport in the way it is being propagated at the moment by Red, Green and Liberals would simply be inappropriate to many rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out, among other things, that the transport structure in Austria is characterised by the fact that many Austrians have to commut every day that many of them depend on their individual means of transport every day, because they cannot use public transport because of the topographical situation. [[Abg. Sweamlein: They can't drive anymore, they just stand!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We already know that!]] Therefore, we also have a corresponding responsibility to those who depend on the individual vehicle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: And what about the antitrust law?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, what the oil industry is giving us as a reason for high prices is more disgraceful. I would like to give an example: It is argued that Austria has more stringent environmental conditions than other countries, for example in the field of so-called gas recovery. That would have cost hundreds of millions of schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! With this gas return, i.e. with the installation of the relatively expensive gas commuting lines, we have basically carried out a reorganisation of their transport routes for the oil industry. A number of gas stations have been closed in rural areas. It has been said that this has been done for environmental reasons. But I tell you that the oil industry was behind it, and that is why we decided so quickly – not for the benefit of our rural areas! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to take responsibility for our drivers and stand for them, and I expect this to happen today.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6303	I call Mr Dkfm. Holger Bauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. [[Abg. Leikam: 3 minutes are enough!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6333	High house! Mr. Federal Minister! I am an unshakable supporter of the social market economy. Competition is an essential prerequisite for the functioning of the market economy. In Austria, the oligopolists in the petrol sector are trying to prevent this competition from happening wherever and as always. It is interesting, however, that – and I would also like to say this to you, Minister of State, this is a little bit about why, just a few weeks before the elections, a few months before the next National Council elections, we have not been so successful in any other country that oil reserves have been as successful as in Austria with their strategy of preventing competition. It is no coincidence that there is only more fuel price in Mexico, New Zealand and Japan – without taxes – than in Austria. Mexico, New Zealand and Japan! That's interesting! – The first. Secondly, however, anyone who travels through the country with open eyes and ears will also be able to see for himself that, like this competition, it is prevented. Mr Federal Minister, you will understandably not fuel your car, your van yourself, but all the more so, while the chauffeur tankes, you have time to look at the price plates. In doing so, you will register that you will be on the entire West motorway... [[Abg. Auer: Did the farmer do that? As Secretary of State?]] It is not an accusation that the Minister is driving in the van! That's not the theme! He should just look, keep his eyes open and, while the driver is gasping, read the price plates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] He will see from gas station to gas station, from multi to multi, from Vienna to Salzburg, from Vienna to Salzburg, from gas station to gas station: 11.03 S per litre Eurosuper. So if, as I said, you're going through with a watchful mind, you're going to say that this is strange, because whether in Vienna or in Salzburg, whether the gas stations of BP, the OMV, ESSO or anyone else, the price per litre is exactly 11.03 p. I left, and... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: 10,83 S on the outskirts of Vienna today!]] – I said: on the motorway! This gas station is not on the highway yet! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you always have to leave the motorway?]] If you still make the effort to get out and ask the gas station owner – friendly, as I do – if this is not strange that there is 11,03 S everywhere, you will get the answer: You know, I can't help myself, deputies, but don't say anything, otherwise I'll be free of my concession. Thirdly, if you continue to drive through the country with alert eyes, you will find the following: If you or your chauffeur find a free gas station, which is only as often as the famous needle in the hay heap, then you can find a price difference – I have mentioned it myself – up to 90 sizes! You can save up to 90 sizes per litre. With a 50-litre tank, this is a round fifties. But you will notice, interestingly, that in the near vicinity of this free petrol station, where the litre is cheaper by 90 sizes, suddenly also at the OMV service station, at the ESSO service station, at the BP service station, only the price required by this free petrol station is demanded. However: When the chauffeur returns gas and 10.20, 25 kilometers away from this free gas station, the price goes up again gradually. Then the litre no longer costs 10,13 S, but first 10,23 S, then 10,55 S, 10,80 S until we reach the eastern level of 10,83 S. In the "Fachchinese" one calls the "tutor price formation". This is done in order to prevent this disturbance, the free gas station, the turnover necessary for the fixed cost degression, so that it does not make so much sales in order to be really cheaper in the long run and, of course, to kill it in the end if it does not allow itself to be bought up in advance. I have already talked about what the oil mults are doing in our country and - I say it again - can also afford. At least so far they have been granted. This is bordered by modern road layery, it is the predatory of the 20th century. 19th century! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Federal Minister, we therefore stand by your side on this issue. However, we have only one problem with this – I honestly say to you –: It's a suspicion. Mr Firlinger meant: In the evening the sloth will be diligent! I mean, Before elections, some politicians become empathetic! But please, it must be! After all, after all! k But second, I always feel like you're getting caught up relatively quickly. And today I was strengthened in it again: They were very excited that the OMV was now publishing some operational key figures. So what? As long as you can't see the basis of calculation and make comparative calculations, it's useless because you can't check the key figures. They've gotten weeded. They don't report any figures from which Mrs. Schmauslaberl recognizes: Aha, the fuel price could be lower. Thirdly, we have the following problem with you again and again: At the beginning, when you start any story, you can't run from loud force, and when it goes into the final, go to the knees. Unfortunately, you always say it's free after the Shakespeare comedy: "Many noises around nothing!"
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6416	Mr Oberhaidinger has now come to speak. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6437	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We discuss the infinite history of Austrian fuel prices in the era of the last three ÖVP Economic Ministers. There are still so many nebula grenades that the ÖVP speakers can throw, and for me the impression remains, Minister of State: This your explanation today is a flight forward – and nothing else. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're in a coalition!]] If you announce to journalists that the oil multitis still have five weeks to do something to act, otherwise the price will be reduced by 40 grand, then I can only say: Mr Federal Minister, please act! It's high time! Their non-negotiation – the amounts have already been mentioned several times today – cost the Austrian drivers 7 billion schilling over the last one and a half years, and every day, which continues to spread unusedly, the Austrian drivers cost 12 million schilling, which is unwarranted but nevertheless justified, Mr Minister, because you tolerate this, to flow into the pockets of the oil multi. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: You don't know the law either!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Minister Klima has still done this! That's a red one! But also Minister One!]] In a misinterpreted deregulation policy, ladies and gentlemen, you – especially your predecessor, Vice-Chancellor Schüssel, then Ditz, and now you, Federal Minister Farnleitner – have invited the mineral oil industry to an overly high price policy. In 1990 the predecessor bowl invented the principle of glass bags. Since then, the Austrian driver has clearly paid too much for the fuel. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true!]] I can show you the sources, Mrs. Tichy-Schreder. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Yes, they show me!]] In 1996, then, the principle of "glass bags", the highly praised, delighted principle, was no longer to be kept. The pressure was too big. A few sentences on your specific role in the fuel prices, Mr. Federal Minister. In your time, the price decline of crude oil was really dramatic, you know just as well as I do. Some figures on this – they have not yet been mentioned – are: In January 1997, a barrel of crude oil of the Brent variety cost 23.5 dollars, 15.2 dollars in January 1998 and 11 dollars in January 1999. The price has fallen by more than 60 percent in this short time, but the gas station prices have hardly gone down. Super-fuel costs more than the EU average today by 80 sizes and diesel by 60 sizes. Because the social partners were extremely dissatisfied in 1997, but above all because the ARBÖ was putting very strong pressure on the public, a gas price summit was held in January 1997. The result was a typical Austrian: An Austrian placebo in the form of a study on the fuel market was commissioned and the public was reassured. In 1998, the deceleration policy continued. The Chamber of Labour then demanded a reduction in gas station prices by at least 50 groschen in February 1998 due to the fall in rosil travel. After two weeks of discussion, the price was reduced by 10 grand. There was then another summit in April 1998 and a prize commission in May 1998. At that time, an industry investigation was decided on the request of the Chamber of Labour. At that time it was decided that this would be completed by the summer of 1998. Again, ladies and gentlemen, months have gone into the country – almost nothing has happened. Today in January, you presented the results of this study to the press. I believe that if you look at Genesis of fuel prices in these years, you really can't avoid calling your current declaration a flight forward. Federal Minister! On behalf of my group, I call for It urges you to take the second of your options, which you have announced today, and to ensure that no more Commission meets, but that the price is actually reduced by at least 50 grand. Second – and you could have done that for a long time: Force the competition! Please increase the share of gas stations that do not belong to the major market leaders! Allows you to... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How does the electricity price look?]] 750 million Schilling has already been saved from the Austrian economy, although liberalisation has not even entered into force, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How does the electricity price look?]] I can only say: Reading newspapers, reading economic newspapers, you will find that a lot has already happened! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What about the electricity price for households?]] But I'm not the minister. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: electricity price for households! What's it look like?]] Come on, too. They will in all cases experience it, and I, too, faster than all of us believe. Federal Minister! Please allow wholesale markets – examples of this are available in France and England – to enter the gas station business! Support low-cost gas stations! Prices should be transparent and the most cost-effective gas stations should be announced daily in all media. Thirdly, Please promote the turnover of the gas stations! Examples have already been mentioned: Expand shop business, expand the product range, change opening hours that have not been up-to-date for a long time, and so on. Fourth: Anxiety Please visit your ministry for better market surveillance! And last but not least – even this instrument has already been addressed several times today –: Sharpen You, together with the Federal Minister for Justice, have antitrust law so that you are better able to intervene regulatoryly and controlly than before! I believe, Minister of State, that your infinite history of fuel prices in our country is truly not a glorious one. Come on. Please comply with your obligation! Make sure the prices are reduced! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6579	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Barmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6600	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate is hardly tolerable, Mr Oberhaidinger. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: In Burgenland we pay 2.44 S for the kilowatt hour!]] [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's part of it too!]] It is therefore hardly tolerable because it is simply a sign of poverty for a people's representative and a legislator in a country when the representatives of the government groups, who have the majority in this House who decide on the laws in this House, sit down here and appeal to the Minister of Economic Affairs and to the Minister of Justice, they may at last make a government proposal so that they can put all this off. – The only ones who can turn this off are the Members of this House with their voice. And that hasn't been done for years! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] The problem is known, but to wait for any minister to do something can work in the structure, especially in the political structure in Austria. Therefore, I would like to begin by saying: Paragraph 19 para. 2 the Rules of Procedure are used by an economic minister or at all by a member of the government to make a current statement here in the House is a positive sign of parliamentaryism. One could really discuss important political issues. The fact that fuel prices are being attracted by the Minister of Economic Affairs in the election year, right before the elections in the country, is, of course, a clear priority, a party-political priority towards this election campaign. That's the way it is! But that it is the government that would have the power to either initiate measures or, supported by its political groups, to work out such measures in the home, which are used by such an instrument, in order simply to make it public, that there is a problem here, of which we all know that there has been a long time ago! – this is, in fact, a misuse of the Rules of Procedure from the intention. It is not about this pressing problem – it could have been solved in 13 years of great coalition, but it has not happened – but it is about before the 7th. On March and before the EU elections, and finally before the national elections, which will take place in any case in June, we will still have a clear position on which clientele we intend to serve. What you're not saying is who will make the next savings package if you enforce all these measures – starting from the karenz money to the almost zero-shipping fuel price for all or for all those who need it. This is going to be a secret in this house. The Foreign Minister could just as well stand here today and, for example, make a statement on the Kurdish question – an undisputed important question, also from the European dimension. This has not been done, because otherwise we might also have to talk about how it was when Kurds were murdered in Austria years ago, when the government authorities actually helped to ensure that the suspected perpetrators could leave the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] We should then talk about that. That is why the Minister for Economic Affairs is coming, but not the Foreign Minister, because that could be an unpleasant issue. Nor does Mrs Hostash come to talk about unemployment and what has come out of all the measures that have so far been supposed to have been taken by the government, but which have only led to the fact that the unemployment rate has not been reduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Nor does the Minister of State Hostasch come, because this too, Mr Schwemlein, is an unpleasant subject. And Mr Farnleitner, too, would like to refer to the fuel prices and not to his recent report on the management of the consequences of the mine accident in Lassing, which we have ended in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, so that he does not see the light of the plenary session. We would just as well have been able to discuss this statement by the Minister of Economic Affairs there in the context of a current debate, as it is possible at a committee meeting, and then finish. - No, you didn't want to. It is an election campaign, and therefore the plenary must hold back to start this election campaign from the government groups which have failed to take their responsibilities and to take action, just now with speech donations. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: I think I'm the only one listening to him!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, we listen too!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, you are not the only one who listens. Unfortunately, Mr Mühlbachler has already left, because I am always pleased when government group representatives here at the speaker's desk suddenly become the defender of widows and orphans or the donor. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: The Liberals are not behind such problems!]] Mr Lukesch, I am willing to go to the bottom of the polemics, but it is true that the last package of savings has not been decided by the Liberals – and that has just met the single parents – but you are up! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Now, of course, you can say: Who is thinking about what happened six months ago in this media age? Who is thinking, then, that the great coalition has taken place in order to solve the major problems facing this country? [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Mr. Barmüller, stay with the case!]] The whole budget has been smoothed by the figures for entry into monetary union, but structurally no adjustments have been made. This is now also gradually happening. We will therefore not avoid addressing the basic structure in Austria – and this is the secondary government of the social partners – clearly as one of the central problems that this country is suffering. Mr Mühlbachler, who has said here that the price reduction for fuels for the commuters would be favourable, must be asked: Why, then, is there not enough jobs for people on the ground? Where, then, are the proposals – the proposals implemented or at least the serious proposals discussed – an environmental tax reform that would create jobs in rural areas? – These are problems that have been pushed from the great coalition to the long bank for 13 years. A committee of inquiry, here in the House called for by the opposition groups, Mr Lukesch, has not even been used because we simply do not want to talk about an ecological tax reform that creates jobs in the rural area, because this would mean serious cuts, and also in the structural areas that are attributed to the individual government groups. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: You didn't listen, Mr. Barmüller!]] And that's why it's not done. If, for example, it is said that the taxpayers would actually benefit from cheaper fuel prices, why do you not also say that if there is to be a competition in the field of transport, then it is not only the fuel prices that need to be taken into account, but also another offer, such as in the field of public transport? Where can people who have no other chance of driving than by car really enter a competition? – That can't be done, that won't be done! Requested – Mr Luke, you know that – will not be the fuel, but the service mobility! People have to come from A to B, and there are several possibilities for that. But with a one-dimensional policy, with a social partnership policy, it will always be so that Mr Mühlbachler, for example, comes down here and says: We need to further expand the road, but the Liberals, the Greens and the Reds are all against the road – which is a real nonsense. This cannot be demonstrated or demonstrated by citations from parliamentary speeches, but it is true that we need a mix in all areas – from energy to transport. The fact that we do not have this mix and that there are distortions of competition is also due, for example, to the fact that the Chamber of Commerce, of course, looks at the fact that its clientele is not happening. As Mr Kukacka has said here today that the drivers are the milk cows of the nation, I can only say to this, ladies and gentlemen: The drivers are at least the milk cow of the coalition, but they are not the milk cow of the nation. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: That was a deep polemic now!]] That's not a deep polemic. For the fuel prices, Mr Deputies, are not so high because net prices are so high, but fuel prices are enormously heavy. Look at this, it's obvious! We know that. [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] Remember: Whenever it was about an ecological tax reform, it was said that one could never increase the tax on mineral oil, but if it was about budget reorganisation, Mr deputies, then there has never been a problem to raise the tax on mineral oil, then you were always the ones who stood up for it. And who was it that abolished the commitment of the mineral oil tax which existed for road construction, so that it would go into the general budget? – That was also this coalition! Or isn't it? And if this continues, ladies and gentlemen, then you will only achieve one thing: that the people of Austria simply and simply do not believe what is being said here, because it is not credible either. They are trying to conceal the fact that the basic problem, which affects antitrust law in particular, is the social partnership structure in Austria. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a brief look at the Federal Minister's statement and prove to her that, in reality, what has been presented by the Federal Minister today is nothing but the parade example of the social security cartel that exists in this country and that the prices are high in many areas: It is true that the policy is responsible for the fuel price because it has not created the structures – the coalition has not created these structures – which offer a possibility that competition also exists in this area. The Federal Minister has explained the possibilities he has and has rightly called the antitrust law. But according to antitrust law, only the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Presidential Conference of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture and the Financial Procuratorship are entitled to submit a request and file a complaint. Others are not allowed to do so. There is no reason at all for this premeditation of people in Austria except one: that the social partners, who are at least hundreds of councils in that country – hundreds of them are at least; probably thousands will be almost reached – only to ensure that everything is closed – which is covered with social peace, as if a parliamentary discussion were not acceptable to social peace – can continue to be behind these doors, what they want to do. They have been completely silent on the part of the ÖVP that the sectoral agreement, which was adopted in 1990, which was decided by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was, in fact, a flop! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Good people!]] No, the Federal Minister said here today: Unfortunately, it must be lifted. - It's in here. It wasn't functional, it was a fool. ==References== It was lifted on April 1, 1996, because it was an unsatisfying solution. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: It's not inside!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And the third point addressed by the Federal Minister is the following: It can only go back to the official price system. It is true that the ideas of the ÖVP's economic party are retroactive on economic policy issues because they are thought of as a social partner. It was also interesting to hear that it was the current Federal Minister, who was still acting as a negotiator on the part of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, who advocated to demise the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs in the context of the Price Act as the supreme body of the administration, because he really can only act on request. It is interesting – last point – that, in a question of public interest, where prices are obviously formed to damage an entire economy, the Federal Minister, as the highest body of administration, has to wait for an application – again by the Federal Chamber of Labour, by the Chamber of Commerce or Presidential Conference, by the Ministry of Finance, by the Ministry of Economic Affairs or possibly also by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry – that the Federal Minister cannot act on his own initiative, that the highest body of the administration cannot act in the public interest. Why? – Because the social partners, who have also been sitting here in the House, demise the parliamentarians and the government. What is being done here is a show that you subtract for the election campaign, but it does not serve to improve the conditions in Austria. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even in those areas where the Federal Minister – and this concerns the electricity sector – could have acted independently, without waiting for an application, in order to give renewable energy sources in Austria, for example, and thus to create more jobs in rural areas, he has not done anything on his own initiative. Therefore: This statement is an election declaration! Read § 5 Price Act according to: Official price arrangements shall not exceed six months. But what happens after these six months? Then we'll be back where we were before, but the elections are over. But we will not let that happen to you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6816	Mr Dr. Drinkl came to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6837	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Barmüller, allow you to briefly replicate your comments, which I did not fully understand: It is not the election campaign that has led the Federal Minister to make a statement here, but it is the concern of 4 million drivers to make the economy, the counterparts who have moved him to make this statement here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Suddenly!]] Mr Barmüller, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to thank Mr Oberhaidinger for his statement. He obviously did not understand that the Minister of Economic Affairs is now also Minister for Consumer Protection and is aware of the interests of consumers, and he did not understand that Mrs Prammer did not make a statement on this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: How long can you arrange prices?]] I would also like to tell you, Mr Kaufmann, that he is not here at the moment, because you are excited that there has always been no complaint under the antitrust law by the Minister or by whoever: As a social partners, they would have been able to bring this action. Mr Barmüller did not have the right to do so, but you would have had the opportunity to file such a complaint. But you probably have relations with the OMV, which have prevented them from bringing such a complaint. I wanted to know this clearly once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo!]] Actually, I wanted to turn to the FPÖ for a short time, but obviously – as the speakers have proved so far – the last gas station specialist has gone off by the relinquishing of Mr. Meischberger, who has left us today, and therefore the experts are missing. They only focus more on reading Taferln, Mr. State Secretary Bauer. This is not enough to achieve appropriate pricing. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a statement by the Federal Minister, which was necessary after the study of the Institute of Economic Research commissioned by him. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: How long can prices be officially regulated?]] She was commissioned by him and directed by him. No one can say: Where was the Minister of Economic Affairs? He acted, and only when the study was in place could this discussion take place here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I admit that the results of this study are very revealing. They chisel in the sentence: The gas station prices in Austria are too high, the tax prices in Austria are much higher than in comparable countries, and I also admit, Mr Barmüller, that the OMV and the oil industry have not responded enough to changes in the raw materials markets. I admit all of that. But that can only lead – and that is right – to the conclusion that more market is also needed in the oil market. In view of the fact that the oil industry in Austria is being operated by six large companies, I say carefully now, my economic lecture falls within my mind in the 1970s, in which I meant that the formation of monopoly and oligopolies had been overcome. I admit: It's not like that! Oligopole tends to focus its marketing activities on the areas of product innovation, advertising, customer support, services, but not on price policy. The Minister of Economic Affairs will now put pressure on the Minister of Economic Affairs. We are very grateful to him for this! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: How long can this work? A maximum of six months! You know that!]] They know that the Minister for Economic Affairs has asked for transparency, and this transparency will lead the oil companies to adjust their prices accordingly. This was an initiative by the Minister for Economic Affairs and we welcome this initiative. There is indeed a need for more market in this area. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You must prevent agreements! You have to do antitrust!]] That's what Mr. Kaufmann promised. He will take the appropriate steps. I am convinced that the Minister for Economic Affairs will force the oil industry to confess color and to match prices accordingly. The first talks have already taken place. I can say: The communications on the part of the oil industry also now contain signals that these ideas of the Minister of Economic Affairs will also bear fruit – whether it suits you or not!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e6998	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No, I'm gone!]] Oh, that's right, but your name was still on the screen. - Please, wait, we have to call a contra-redner now. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. – He is not in the hall, so his speech cannot take place. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann is entering the meeting room at this moment.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's here!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Abg. Haigermoser) When he called, he wasn't there!]] The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7066	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the short time I have available to me to accept a little of the petrol station owners who, as I think, have nothing to laugh at in their position, because of the way they operate the oil surplus, which is very global. Ladies and gentlemen! The most important thing is that the dividends vote and that the Board of Directors of the Shareholders' Assembly can give good reports, and the major shareholders – don't be mad at this expression to me! – don't get the bags full enough. Ladies and gentlemen! For the gas station owners and their families who are still working at the gas stations – cleaning discs, checking air and doing more such activities – the bread basket is hung high up. It is already very difficult in some regions to lead a gas station profitably. If I hear, ladies and gentlemen, that they have to hold on to the conduct of a shop, I wonder what a policy it should be. It must be possible for one to earn so much from the product one sells that one can feed on it and not to keep another product in order to fill a gap for the other more or less. If I hear that the calculations of the oil companies are all going to be fair, then the tears come to me, because as you all know, between ten dollars of crude oil and the tax price at the gas station there is a tension between them. But it also has a lot of work to do. But for so naïve, we need not be held to believe that we do not know that there are huge margins in there. There, I think the lever is on. It is important that we try to find a solution for the small gas station owners, a solution which will also bring them back to the point of pursuing more commitment and enthusiasm for their own business. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity to call on all those who can help improve the situation of gas station owners to join in this mood. I urge you to work together for these companies, for the gas station owners – there are many in our country, and there are hard-working people – and to ensure that there is a real partnership again and that there is not a diktat as it is at present, so that the oil companies become aware once again that those who sell their petrol have the right to earn their living in a decent manner! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7109	It was next to Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7130	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! All of us have already heard that the fuel price is too high, and that is why it has been mentioned. It is also quite funny to observe how black and red make mutual accusations, who makes the wall, who pulls which brake, who sets out what activities, who makes what standards. The fact is that, although the crude oil price has a historical low, fuel prices are too high. They are a burden on the individual citizens, also lead to excessive costs for companies, are also a disadvantage for the economy – the Austrian mineral oil industry is of course excluded – and also means a competitive disadvantage for Austria. Federal Minister! We have a market in this area in Austria. If I have understood Mr Kukacka correctly, of course Sozis is to blame for that. So you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, are to blame. Minister for Economic Affairs! If this is expressed by the ÖVP and if this position is shared by the Minister of Economic Affairs as well, then I think it sounds more than unbelievable, because you yourself in those areas in which the ÖVP holds its hand, ensure that it is fired and walled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are a congenial partner within this socialist government coalition. When it comes to the impact of the ÖVP, for example, on the area of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, it looks quite different, then it is also closed off: The Minister of Economic Affairs, who is known to come from the Chamber, ensures that undertakings which are forced members of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce are pushed into further compulsory membership by encouraging them to become members, so that they continue to be on the market and continue to make transactions and to receive products and orders, as is the case in the public sector. How can it be, Mr Federal Minister, that there are so-called "Schutzvereine" established in the Chamber, (Güte)schutzvereine – with which I would like to clap the word "good" – private associations which are housed in the Federal Chamber of Commerce, which you, Mr. Federal Minister, acknowledge by letter or by regulation on test institutions? I have nothing against respectable professions, such as those of a sugar baker, but a sugar baker with a WIFI course is not, in my view, the one who is supposed to and must carry out inspections in the technical field. This also applies, for example, to sewage treatment plants, for which there is a test engineer in the country in public contracts, a civil engineer who is responsible for planning and who has the control of construction monitoring. Again: There should be no superfluous control function, as I mean. This control function is linked to – I call it by name – protection payments, Mr. Federal Minister. There are also charges for inclusion into these associations, which are non-numbered in the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true!]] Admission fee: 50 000 S. Review fee, initial review: 50 000 S. Annual membership contribution: 10,000 pp. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: How much? You have no idea of Lotto! You're talking like the blind one about the color!]] I am talking about an area – and you do not want to hear that – that you have created yourself and where you are acting again by means of compulsory memberships as an economic braker, which does not allow companies to operate and create a market that has been shut down, with insider transactions, with price agreements and with excessive demands. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: It's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who determines the contribution?]] And you, Mr. Federal Minister, acknowledge such private associations within the Federal Chamber of Commerce to test institutions. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Stately tolerated Mafia!]] I therefore allow myself to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7255	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7279	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! With Austria's accession to the EU, prices in the agricultural and forestry sectors fell immediately to the EU price level. In the field of operating resources, these price adjustments have unfortunately been very inadequate. The statements by Federal Minister Farnleitner show that diesel fuels in Austria are also much more expensive than in the comparable European area. The study by the Austrian Institute of Economic Research, which has been attached here, shows that the diesel price is only higher in Norway and Sweden than in Austria. In all other OECD countries, diesel prices are lower. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Say that it is not true that you drove with heating oil with your tractor!]] No, we can't go with fuel oil, but we wish. I know, however, that there are free people who seem to be using heating oil, otherwise Mr Haigermoser could not say that is also possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I didn't say that!]] Energy consumption in Austria is about 3 million tonnes of diesel and 2 million tonnes of petrol per year. That is to say, a price reduction of 10 grand for Austrian consumers and drivers alone would bring 500 million schillings to savings. There should also be some good relations with the OMC, which in Austria has a very strong monopoly: Since a number of members of the government used to be members of the OMC, but also a number of representatives of the OMC, a meeting environment would have to be created in and for themselves, which would result in a reduction in the prices of this monopoly plant – everyone else would have to go down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We still have the difficulty that, especially in rural areas, there is hardly any competition between the gas stations, so that we usually have to operate with the only one that is far and wide – no matter how high the prices there are. Minister Molterer and Minister Farnleitner are now trying to achieve an additional obligation on biodiesel. In Austria alone, a 2% reduction obligation would require a rape area of about 60,000 hectares for the production of biodiesel. Instead of shutting down arable land, renewable energy could be produced on these areas. Of course, this could also create value added for agriculture, but also for the downstream processing area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Kyoto Agreement will force us to reduce environmental pollution in the next few years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] That would be an area like that. The EU White Paper also calls for a doubling of renewable energy within the next few years. This could create many jobs in rural areas, and there would be a corresponding support income for farmers. In addition, biofuels could also be used ecologically in the urban area for CO2 and soot reduction. For example, those who control a car that drives with biofuels, and a white sign is hanging behind the exhaust, will see that this will not be rusted. This alone shows how better combustion is achieved by the use of biofuels. The biodiesel contains about 11 percent oxygen, which allows for a much better combustion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] This would enable Austria to achieve a technology leadership in this production. We hope that the government will also be able to enforce itself in the future... – I must say that the liberals have such a bad childhood that they can no longer accept the most elementary rules of discussion! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You shouldn't hope to rule!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You're in government! The blacks are also in the government!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] We hope that in the field of renewable energy, as agreed at the time of the government clause in Bad Aussee, it will be forced to change in the next year, because this would result in a great deal of value added in Austria. In addition, many jobs would be created on farms and also in rural areas, in processing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7423	Mr Wenitsch has asked for an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. Please start with the facts you want to correct. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7448	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schwarzenberger argued in a defamatory way that the freedom of the people would be driven by heating oil. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Haigermoser said that!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of the Abg. Schwarzenberger) You said "no" and I believe you because you're my friend!]] I'll put it right: There is no known case in which the freeman was driven with heating oil. And if the farmers or anyone else in Austria were to do so, then the ÖVP would be responsible for it because it taxed the diesel price too high.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7502	Mr Blünegger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7523	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High house! I think that if one has just heard the speeches of the SPÖ/ÖVP in the fuel prices, then one had to think that is a ridiculous product, which has come out of it. For the SPÖ condemns the ÖVP's absence, the ÖVP again says that the Federal Minister is doing enough, and in reality nothing happens! There will certainly be nothing else on this point but that there will be beautiful speeches again! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Move!]] Federal Minister! They keep telling us in public that you will do something against the overly high fuel prices. But I must tell you, Minister of State, that you have been able to do something for a long time. The present situation in petrol prices has existed for years, but you have never been directly opposed to the oil industry. Even against price policy, you have not stood up so far, and now do It's just because elections are in front of the door. Federal Minister! I am now speaking to you as a Tyrolean Member. We in the Western Länder have very slowly really the nose full of you and your constant promises. We also have the nose full of the announcements, as well as of your missing economic policy. This includes primarily your influence on the decision regarding the famous Unterinntal-Tout, which you and Transport Minister must answer to One in Tyrol. We Tyroleans pay the highest fuel prices in Austria. The average price for Austria is 10.77 p. In Vienna the liter costs 10,44 S, with us in Tirol he costs 10,95 S. Mr. Federal Minister! At 30 tank fillings per year with an average of 40 litres, a Tyrolean pays around 612 S more than one driver in Vienna. With Diesel, this bill comes at 355 p.m. at the same time. And this is where Mr Schwarzenberger comes out and speaks of a price reduction at the diesel! I ask you, Mr Schwarzenberger: How many requests have we made in this House, in which you voted against as an ÖVP, against the reduction of diesel prices? – But there are even more drastic calculations of the economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is the price still an official price or does it form in the free market?- Oh, my God!]] The liberals have made a request for the diesel price to be reduced, but you have not even voted in favour of this request by the ÖVP! There you can see that you're still falling down on the couch! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Even more drastic is another example for me as a Tyrolean and a liberal Member of Parliament, which I would like to mention here. With 297 595 registered cars in Tyrol – this is the 1997 stand – the Tyroleans pay a total of 117 million Schilling more than the drivers in Vienna. – This is not a juxtaposition, but it has been calculated serially. But unfortunately, it is always seen that the Federal Minister is completely indifferent that the OMV Multis or OMV shareholders on the back of the Tyroleans and the Austrian population achieve total dream profits. Federal Minister! Now – 14 days before the country election in those three federal states where people have to pay top fuel prices – suddenly discover your love for the man on the street, for the consumer! Federal Minister! We want you to avoid making various announcements and promises until the 7th century. But we want to see actions at last! In this sense, I hope that the antitrust law will be changed – I am right for Mr Peter. However, the speeches made by the speakers of the current SPÖ/ÖVP, however, cannot be optimistic about the fact that for drivers, consumers, there is a noticeable reduction in fuel prices. But we cannot live by announcements and promises alone!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7587	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7608	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! – Minister of State! I'm not going to leave. Your special "tact feeling" is one with which you have linked a declaration of election at the petrol prices, which you have apparently been preparing for for a long time – with a price reduction of course: more transit traffic and more exhaust gases – with a statement on yesterday's avalanche disaster. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I hope the fuel price drops!]] I'll leave you to judge that yourself. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What is this?! Tasteless!]] The word "tasteless", Mrs Bauer, has been used. This term, as I mean, is reserved for the ÖVP today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: A tasteless colleague was Van der Bellen! Remember Lambach?]] Dear Members of the Austrian People's Party! I am also not referring to the dramatic failure of the Minister of Economic Affairs in the field of air pollution reduction, in the field of pollution prevention. And I am not going to address the shortcomings that you know and which the Federal Government's policy has ultimately caused in the field of the protection of forests, which are particularly crucial in the prevention of disasters. I am not responding to the eco-tax model of our Greens either. It's available in writing. Those who are interested in it and who do not seek cheap election polemics can read it. Those who cannot or do not want to read will not do so, so I do not need to explain it to them from here either. As I said, It is in writing and can be viewed. But, Mr Federal Minister, I am going very well to the Meaning of this exercise today, which you have completed and commanded from the government bank. Mrs Bauer has probably found the only appropriate word for this exercise. It's in my eyes... – You know, I can only react to intermediate calls if they reveal a certain degree of intelligent criticism. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Van der Bellen! The discussion about Lambach!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Otherwise you seem to have issued the following slogans for today's last session before the country elections: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Tomorrow is the last meeting!]] You want to score points at a larger clientele, regardless of whether the arguments are rational or not rational. That doesn't count so much shortly before elections. I find it highly displaced and disturbing, on the one hand, in the presidential, on the other from Tyrol, to conjure up the great dissension and the national consensus in the face of a disaster, but then to offer us here in the House of Lord this really cheap election spectacle!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7728	Mr Farnleitner, Federal Minister, spoke again. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7749	Mr President. High house! I'd like to say something about the schedule. We waited for the results of this study for months, as several improvements were necessary. I find it – and this has also been said by a Member of Parliament – only fair if something that plays a major role in the public, the competent minister also informs the House. I've made use of that, and I'm standing for that. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Dr. Novotny and Mr Ing. Tychtl.]] Second point: I really can say clearly – and you can follow this in the public debate over the last two years – that many who have criticized have been satisfied with press releases and have not applied for the Courage to make either a request for a price right or an application for antitrust law. For two years I have patiently played the rivet tree for all who wanted to profile on the price question. That is why I have taken the initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo!]] Third point, again at the time. I said: All the competitive measures we are talking about – starting from an intensification of the antitrust law, what the cartels are about, up to an official procedure and a strengthening of the institutions – are nothing that can be enforced in a few weeks. All that is desired by the mineral oil industry, for example, is – with the exception of the automatic filling stations – unimplementable in a few months. Therefore, it is quite legitimate to threaten and say: We both do the measures under price law and the necessary measures in the field of competitive conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7797	There is no more word message for this. The debate is closed. There is a motion for a resolution on which we now have to vote. We shall therefore vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann and comrades concerning "protection payments" in the area of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 2. Point Report of the Economic and Social Committee on the Government Template (1273 of the Supplements): Economic loyalty law – WTBG (1635 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Economic and Social Committee on the draft Federal Act amending the Trade Regulation in 1994 (1636 of the Supplements) 4. Point Report and request of the Economic Committee on the draft federal law amending the Administrative Court Act 1985 (1637 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7870	We now come to points 2 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Haigermoser, the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7898	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! On the occasion of the industrial change two years ago, then celebrated as a great throw, the need for the profession of the self-employed accountant was discussed long and wide. Mr Heindl and I had a lot of things to say at the time, but at that time obviously the time was not ripe, not even a mouse was born two years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: Unfortunately!]] At the time, two years ago, the blockade policy of the socialist coalition prevented a suitable solution. Now, although a little fresh wind is being allowed into the accountancy offices, which we in principle welcome, it would not be the socialist coalition, if not once again with all the violence of the chamber state, ladies and gentlemen. The barrage of the chamber state has once again been used by the government coalition in this context with perfidy! Two classes of accountants are now being created, and I am surprised that They didn't have a third, fourth, and fifth. That wouldn't have surprised me. There should now be the professions of the commercial accountant and the independent accountant. These terms alone clearly show the confusion of the consumer, the future client. Hundreds of letters and faxes have been sent to you and us as Members of Parliament. I would like to quote from one of these letters, because it says a lot. For example, Mrs Ulrike Gruber, tax advisor and independent accountant – I quote – writes us: My clientele consists of 99 percent small businesses, landlords, self-employed people, and for a few years now – she writes – and this is also interesting for the social democrats, I mean – more and more employees who have lost the overview of the employee situation, earlier annual compensation. – End of the quote. This is the problem that we have: that this House, with your consent, constantly adopts laws, which can no longer be executed by the "normal citizen" – under quotation marks – without access to expensive consultants. This is a problem, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And it goes on to say in this letter: However, I do not believe that this is the cause of the fact that I am a tax advisor, but the fact that the many legal changes have naturally made the fee. - Quote. This is very interesting, and we should actually start to create new bureaucracy, ladies and gentlemen, instead of once again admitting: a lukewarm fan. Finally, in this letter from the tax advisor mentioned, I quote, we are asked – not to give our voice to the insanity of anchoring a professional image in two chambers – I can already predict that we will not, of course, agree to this kind of insanity, ladies and gentlemen – take responsibility and fight the cost burden on the economy where it is created, namely in the legislation. [[Complaints with the liberals]] – End of the quote. You should do that, instead of giving a little ink over it again and saying: We, the government, are the great liberalizers and thus push down the costs! With this individual measure, you will only be found in sub-areas, ladies and gentlemen. Helmut Peter, it's almost grotesque, with which "champness" you threw yourself on the tracks for these old pots. Once again you meant to catch the right wind and in proven form hang your flag after the wind. But that's what you're supposed to do, that's not my problem. A revelation silk and eiertanz is also the so-called Bureau Letter of the Chamber of Economic Trustees of February 1999. So, like, "battle-soft" as in this letter, I haven't been accommodated for a long time. This is only more to the howher, what the Lord Hübner writes to us, namely: In recent times, a compromise has been seriously debated, which we believe is simply absurd. There should be a commercial accountant in the Chamber of Commerce and a self-employed person in the Chamber of Economic Trustees. And then he goes on to write: If it is inevitable – that is, this division – the accounting power can only be anchored in the Chamber of Economic Trustees. So in the final effect, it's Wurst, chief thing, he gets a few more chamber members, ladies and gentlemen. That's it on the table: Give the rich Leo Maderthaner what the Maderthaner is! That's a few more members. Then we have new self-employed again, and You can go home with your statistics again and say that the government now had new self-employed "born". And to the illustrious circle of Mr Hübner we will also give a few forced members, ladies and gentlemen. And we don't want that, Helmut Peter! We want a system, as is currently under discussion in Switzerland, for example: Controller 2000, proposed by the Institute for Accounting and Controlling of the University of Zurich on five pages: Professional image, examination subjects, examination concept. – This is juicy, clear and modern: Controller 2000, Financial and Accounting Trade Card, Controller 2000, Diploma Expert for Accounting and Controlling. Without room pressure, ladies and gentlemen! He's allowed to do all of this. And that would be an exemplary Swiss example for us. This is how we imagine modern accounting and service! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The whole thing would be, Helmut Peter and Mr President Maderthaner, without membership of the Chamber, would be automatically cheaper, there would be no inclusion fee – but on the other hand, I have heard sometime, and now you are voting for the inclusion fee again; it is for the Wahern with you! – no KU 1, no KU 2 and no base. You're going to introduce all of this with your consent today, colleague Peter! But that's what you're supposed to do. I'm just saying, Catch after the wind. [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was also very interesting to hear what the Minister of Justice has said in the Committee on Justice on another subject; Mr Hofmann will continue to address this. Mr. Hopf said that the Federal Minister for Justice was unhappy about the right of representation before the Administrative Court. Now I don't know who the living accident is: You or the Minister of Justice? So you should not be unhappy in the government, ladies and gentlemen, you should be agreed. That'd be something. Unite in the government, but you should not make the citizens unhappy. – I leave this quote of the other uncommented in the room. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, once again: The present draft law, which is adopted by a majority today, is admittedly better than nothing. It is, as has been said several times, positive, because it creates a slight opening, but it is not innovative, it is far away from citizens' proximity, from transparency, and it has a similar flaw to that of you, Mr Federal Minister, at that time so praised part-sector. This has also become a bitsel of a pipe-creper. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner.]] Well, we'd like to talk about this border. He may have five employees, and he may not hire a sixth one. But let's leave this issue! At the debureaucratisation level in a networked matter, nothing has happened at all, it has not even been remembered. They cannot demand from an opposition that holds something on its own and submits alternatives and not just says no to it that it agrees with such a lukewarm fan.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7967	The next speaker is Mrs Tichy-Schreder. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e7997	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Graf, you are very easily satisfied if you were satisfied with the speech of Mr Haigermoser. It is quite logical for me that the liberals will vote against this government proposal because they do not want to spoil themselves with the balance sheets or with the tax advisors. Of course, that's the easiest thing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And with whom did you corrupt it?]] [[Abg. Haller: A question of conscience!]] Mr Dr Graf, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You're talking to me! I didn't spoil it with anyone... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Continue, continue!]] You cannot listen, Mr Haigermoser, but that is already known. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to refer to your Swiss example, Mr Haigermoser. You don't know the Swiss conditions at all and you have no idea of the profession of the accountant, the commercial accountant and the independent accountant, if you mention the controller here. The controller has quite different tasks than the independent and the commercial accountant. Furthermore, Mr Haigermoser, look at the Swiss chamber system! In Switzerland you don't have to be a member, but you can't do different things if you're not a member. Furthermore, the Swiss Chamber costs much more than the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, more than the Chamber of Trustees and so on and so on. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The controller is responsible for accounting things!]] Mr Haigermoser, you always argue with half-knowledge, but I will take you to Switzerland once and send you to the relevant posts, and then you will find that this Swiss system is much more expensive than the Austrian system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] Mr Haigermoser! I know you don't believe it. That's why I said I'm going to lead you, because then Maybe you'll talk to entrepreneurs there and learn about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr. Dr. Graf, you seem not to want to be informed, so I do not turn to you anymore. We have tried to find a means for both accountants and tax advisors, quite simply. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At the expense of lawyers! At the expense of another profession!]] It has also been pointed out - and you have not yet found this - that the economy, the technology, has changed enormously. We all know that at the time when we decided on the trade regulations some years ago, the economic loyalty regulations, these accounting systems were far from available. On the one hand, we want to achieve that people who work in a business as accountants also have the opportunity to become independent. What's going on today? Save the ad part of Saturday newspapers. Many people offer accounting work, but they cannot be carried out as an independent accountant or as a commercial accountant. That is why the first step is to get people who have so far worked in illegality out of it and to anchor the commercial accountant in the Chamber of Commerce, in the Chamber of Commerce. Why? Because the account holders, who have been vehemently wrapped in the doors – not just us but all of us – wanted to be specifically anchored in the Chamber of Commerce, because the fees in these are much cheaper than in the Chamber of Economic Trustees. In the field of economic fidelity, we made the rule at the beginning of the 1980s that only more academics can take up this profession. But now there are also graduates of vocational colleges and so on, and the Minister of Economic Affairs has managed to re-establish and dedust and liberalise a new system here in negotiations with the business loyals. There will be no more fees and there will be the possibility that the accountant can become independent accountants without academic training, but with a audit of the balance sheet, which he has successfully carried out, and some practical time. With further training and examination, he can also take part in the tax advisory review. That's very, very positive. However, I would also like to say that to you, he cannot become auditors without academic degree. This has been agreed by common accord. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been long discussions with all sides, there have been these statements and those statements, and we have tried to go a medium-sized approach that is fair to all. We have set limits to what extent it can be booked in order to help small and medium-sized enterprises in particular and to reach more cost-effective offers in accounting. However, we have also dusted the audit regulations and, as always the social partners are being approached, the social partners are consciously removed from the audit committee. The Audit Committee is now only represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with economic fiduciaries of course being able to examine and make their members available. We have consistently achieved in all examinations that not one member of this profession is also the chairman of the Audit Board in order to achieve greater justice, and we have also achieved that consideration of the examination work can be given. We have tabled an amendment within the Committee, with which we have extended the right to represent auditors. The economic fidelity workers have already been fixed with this novel that they have the right to represent the independent administrative senates. Moreover, we have now achieved the right of representation only for auditors – these are academics – at the administrative courts in these pending proceedings. It is those who carry out all the work and prepare for lawyers. The group of auditors, which is highly specialized, now also has the right of representation at the Administrative Court. Ladies and gentlemen! The public debate about this law was mainly influenced by the concerns of the accountants, but this professional law has come about in agreement with the economic trustees. This is a modern law of economic loyalty, which also takes into account the interests of the European Union. I believe that the legislation we are discussing today will be a good step for Austria's economy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to make an amendment. This is a purely formal amendment. There has been a citation error, it was only the first sentence mentioned, which is why it must now come to this supplement. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I hope that very many people will become independent in the newly created professions in the near future.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8148	The read amendment is sufficiently supported. He's been handed over and he's on trial. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8172	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs Tichy-Schreder, it is not true that the liberals remain open to all sides, in order not to spoil themselves with the economic fidelity or with the accountants. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Of course! But yes!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] The only problem is that we, the liberals, are not ready to compromise with this compromise, a lazy compromise, an irony, the You have listed here to give the consent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you are right, as a whole, it has not been so negative, even in the Committee. We have dealt with very positive things in committee, also in connection with the law on economic loyalty. And I also felt positive about the call for call – as such it is worth it – to my colleague Haigermoser, because Black and Red have made a request that deals with the taking over of trust tasks. In other words, the protection of trusts should be ensured by the Federal Minister or the possibility of interdisciplinary societies being established in the interests of the economy. But what have you done about this motion for a resolution? You have a deadline until 31. In December 1999, it was noted. I already know that the term of election between red and black has not yet been fixed a hundred percent. This depends on the future tax reform and on many other things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And of the country elections!]] It is clear to everyone that nothing is going on in reality. You have to fight this problem on the part of the government parties. ==References====External links== June, or it will be elected in October or November – we will see – but certainly not on 31. December 1999! An application such as this with a deadline for 31. December 1999 is to express it quite simply, for the "wish". Why? Because this request has no relevance in the next legislative period and a new one has to be introduced. Now to your economic loyalty law, to the accountants of two classes you have created. There is now, on the one hand, the independent accountant, who is entitled to balance-sheet – here there are caps – and who must look for a tax advisor to represent. On the other hand, there is the commercial accountant – that is, the related trade – who cannot balance. The creation of balance lists is the limit of what can be done. The disadvantage, as I think, is that there are two accounting groups again, a division – how could it be different?; by Mr Haigermoser - to the Chamber of Economic Trustees and to the Empire of President Maderthaner, namely the Chamber of Commerce of Austria. What's this about? - For a forced intrusion. We know this in Austria: Each member is welcome to pay this compulsory admission fee. Let me say something that has not yet been said in the debate today, but it is already very good in the media. Much has been said about improving the job situation through this law on economic loyalty, because there will be so many new jobs. I'll tell you: What is decided here is a redistribution that is taking place and, of course, in this way – that is right and has already been mentioned – the statistics of the new self-employed are beautiful. You cannot expect our consent to this compromise, which is a lazy compromise for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8233	I call Mr Kurt Heindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8255	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! I do not know, Mr Hofmann, whether you were at the last committee meeting. - Yes, you were there. We have corrected this because I basically agreed with your criticism, and this deadline was set at 31. July ahead. Now your criticism would also vote, should still be before 31. be elected July, but in principle... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: That was the call of Mr Haigermoser, that was the positive!]] - I didn't hear that. Okay, well, we don't need to talk about that anymore. Helmut Haigermoser! In my view, it was not the main subject where the respective new professional groups are assigned. On the contrary: If I had heard what the accountants wanted, I would have had to fight for them to come to the Chamber of Commerce. I quote from a negotiating protocol that I happened to get today: Our primary wish – that of the balance sheet keepers – is to be regulated in the trade regulations. - They wanted to go in there. I've stood out for that, I say quite honestly, because it was just a competition problem. You know that very well. The scope of the commercial accountancy is considerably lower than that of the self-employed. The independent accountant is in reality a real competition with the tax advisor. For this reason, it must, of course, be accommodated in this area for organizational and system reasons. That's reality. I'll leave you with all the other interpretations. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Helmut, one thing I have to say to you: We have discussed in detail, and if you say that is a lukewarm fan, then I must say that there was a flea with you, because concrete proposals have not come. Criticism has been there, yes – I don't want to polemize now – but how you could otherwise regulate it and make it different has not come from you, there was really a flatter, there was not even a lukewarm fan. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As we have discussed this subject very objectively in committee, I do not want to polemise. I don't have much time to talk now; then let's keep talking. – Ladies and gentlemen! But I also believe that this is a very important law. In recent years there has been a great deal of talk about the subject of service society, professions. There are sufficient studies by various economic institutions showing that employment potential is particularly high in this area, particularly in terms of quality. And we've been guided by that. A study recently prepared by the IHS shows that in the field of professions there is an unused potential of around 30 000 highly qualified jobs. The consequence is usually that a highly qualified job is the basis for other jobs. So I am convinced that this will bring a number of things. This has already been the case in recent years. The growth of the professions and their economic power has been two to three times as high in recent years as it would have been in line with the gross domestic product. So we see that we are on the right path here. The Austrian Account Holders' Association published a documentation a few weeks ago. "Time is ripe," they write. "What we have to do as an employee, we want to do as a self-employed person." – We can say it from here: They are allowed to do so – not only because of their own interests, but also in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises. Anyone who is closer to these things knows how much there is a wider offer, a qualified offer necessary. And especially small and medium-sized enterprises need that. A few weeks ago, I held a discussion with representatives of credit protection associations. Especially in recent years, it has been shown that the main cause of operational difficulties lies in incorrect, or misguided, books. So if the offer is broad and inexpensive, I am convinced that it will, in the medium term, also contribute to improving the structure of the farms. That was the starting point. What did we want? . We wanted to reduce over-bureaucratisation, create more competition, make the tasks of the individual professional groups more transparent, break down monopolistic, closed areas, but at the same time ensure that quality is taken into account. Those who deal with the law will find that we have achieved these goals. This WTBG should also be a signal to small and medium-sized enterprises. If they use the offer, it will be – we can say from here – in their own interest and for their own benefit! In this discussion it has also become clear that there is a tension, Mr Graf. Of course, the representatives of tax advisors represent interests other than the representatives of lawyers, the representatives of the accountants or the commercial accountants. It was not a chamber discussion, it was a discussion of interests. That's a wide frame. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I can't want to satisfy one or less of them by taking something away from an outside profession!]] – Mr Vanner! With the word "take away" you have already dealt with the problem again. If you liberalize, you will necessarily create competition. They're talking about taking away. I'm telling you something because I have a little to do with it. We know that 25 to 30 percent of the cases at administrative courts are located in the area we are now talking about. As a lawyer, Mr Ofner, you know very well that the auditors are usually used as auditors. They are doing more work there than a traditional lawyer, if – I relativize it anyway, Mr. Col. – it is not an economist. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: The professional party representation in court!]] Dear colleague Ofner! I'll tell you again: In every area, it will always be when we liberalize, which are what they say, that's bad. In the same breath, however, they will demand liberalisation. That's the problem we're facing. But we cannot have both at the same time: on the one hand liberalisation and at the same time maintenance of protected areas. I can't! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do not liberalize one another!]] I'm ready to discuss immediately. Do you recognize that we have been trying and have also achieved a number of things? I have been asked in committee how many new career candidates we expect. No one can make a prognosis in this regard. We only know one thing: More than 7,000 account holders have already organized themselves in a free association. Their number has now grown again. There are a number of commercial accountants, who are mainly active in smaller areas and who are not at all able to acquire the appropriate qualifications due to logistics. I think we could take this into account, because no one could criticize it. Ladies and gentlemen! I say it quite openly: It will not be the last reform. But this step is an important step towards enlargement. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm afraid that's the next weakening of the chamber!]] As the colleagues of the LIF and the Greens have agreed, perhaps you too will agree today or tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Peter: I don't think so, Mr. Heindl!]] We are proud of this law, as it is a step towards greater liberalisation. Yes, Helmut Haigermoser, it brings a new wind and, above all, offers many women the opportunity to engage in an independent activity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8369	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8390	Mr. Minister! Mr President. High house! The current discussion is already going in the right direction, but, Mr Heindl, you overlook something very essential: You already break in legal care with all the traditions in this house. This also continues in this case and under this Minister. I say: There are much more intelligent solutions to deal with the problem of expert activity in the field of representation of the highest courts. It would have been time to create the conditions for establishing interdisciplinary societies. That would be a solution that is clever in itself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But it's not going to be done! It does not, in turn, provide for the professional change law of lawyers, which is under review. Nor does the economic fidelity regulation provide for it. Minister! In your urge to make compromises between the different stakeholders, you generally harm the free professions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They raise the angular writing to the system. This must also be said here. They are one of the tombs of the professions in general – I would like to hold this here in a specific way – in many areas. Today, tomorrow and in the near future, we have many legislative amendment initiatives on the part of the government here. Conflict resolution centres are created in the criminal field, where psychologists can make criminal or legal representations in the future. They are not able to teach a career for mediators or submit to the High House. However, they create the profession of mediators and thus also the legal-friendly representation, excluding lawyers in the Austrian legal order. This really goes step by step to the substance of an entire profession. But I do not wonder that there is no uproar here in the House. For under a President-in-Office of the Justice Committee, who really does not want to have anything to do with the matter, nothing can actually go on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In reality, we, too, are crying to the former Justice Committee, Graff, in this matter. He would never have allowed such a thing! One cannot try to change a profession, liberalize it if this is ultimately done at the expense of another profession. There must be concerted action. We must find a system that corresponds to real liberalisation. Economists are not subject to the advertising ban of lawyers and can appear quite differently and massively in the public. It is a distortion of competition if one does not at the same time give the lawyers the same possibilities. On the other hand, it is taboo to talk about the fact that the notaries, where it is really necessary, are liberalizing, for example in the signatory certificate, which does not at all represent the possibility of standing in the way of any profession. Yeah, you're always with us, but you don't want to regulate it for all the professions. The solution is interdisciplinary societies! Then there would be no longer this problem. You can't find that, I don't see it anywhere. Where is a government proposal in this area? There is even an EU directive that we should implement. However, the professional law amending law of lawyers does not provide for that. That's where you're trying to get rid of it. In reality, the substance of a professional profession is massively rubbed. We liberals will not be involved in this, we can tell you already today and here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Peter! I am very, very excited about how you are facing this problem. Today, Mr Tichy-Schreder has tabled an amendment which, even if it had not been allowed to do so after the Committee's deliberations, would now suddenly have the economic fidelity to be given to the resumption procedures or re-establishment procedures, in which the reservation of lawyers was still regulated. This is the lazy compromise you are entering into: On the one hand, they take economic fidelity away a little at the expense of another profession, instead of liberalising the professions in general and bringing about a modern European solution in the form of interdisciplinary societies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8469	In addition, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8491	Mr President. High house! Since I was called the "death graves of the professions", I must say: I am known as the graves of the agricultural market order, as graves of the cartel landscape of Austria, as graves of the "holy" energy order, as graves of the Telecom order and as graves of the old economic loyalty order. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Something's always right!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can tell you: For a liberal, it is an award to be called this. I don't think it's insulting, it's really a distinction that I value. Second point: Mr Graf, there is a parallel to this discussion – and I should also take part in it – between Minister Michalek and State Secretary Ruttenstorfer on the issue of the rule of law and the notarial order in order to negotiate an equation with the liberalisation functions of the economic loyals. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You want everything in the chamber!]] Because one thing is clear: It makes no sense if we allow interdisciplinary groups in the economic fidelity system, but other orders do not provide for it. I hope that this kind of liberalisation will be enforced in parallel discussions. This was not included in the government template and was, as it were, brought to the attention of the Minister of Justice by both government parties. And that is now being negotiated. That is why it cannot be a one-sided liberalisation, but all professions should be free in the same way, and I can tell you that too. I sometimes allow myself to point out that it is easy to get others to compete, to represent them in competition processes, but to have an advertising ban and a pricing ban in its own field. That's supposed to be the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8545	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: For you, Minister, a freelancer is an abomination!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a one-sided arrangement!]] Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Peter. I'm asking you to stop talking to me. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8588	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From Haigermoser to Hofmann to Graf, the path of fundamental opposition is moving, which varies between liberalisation and the protection of the pledges of lawyers. So somehow it's very difficult to find new solutions for the freelancers, and how to do it, it's wrong. On the one hand, you hang the flag too much in the wind to Mr. Haigermoser, I don't know in which direction, hopefully not in his direction, that would be very embarrassing to me. And on the other hand, I get... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Dear friend! I would like the Freedom Party to have learned a little over the last ten years. You have become more reactionary and increasingly unbearable. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] But you feel good about that, I understand. I have nothing to do with it, thank God. Because your form of politics, simply going here, regularly telling a lot of nonsense and finding everything that is done bad, is too simple, too short. I can only regret what it means by politics Fundamental opposition at any price, nonsense at any price! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Single-sided regulations!]] It must be loud! And that's a little sad. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But you can make it so hard for anyone in this case. I have now also received a fax from an economic fidelity, a sworn economic fidelity, a tax examiner, a magistrate, a Mr. X, so we want to call him who has baffled me via e-mail in a way against which the Haigermoser was still a lercherl today. [[Abg. Fischl: The people are "coubling" with you, Mr. Colleague?]] Oh, my God, Fischl, shut up! There's nothing going on! That is to say, Mr X, as we want to call him, has obviously lost the version because something has happened, which he cannot imagine, namely that new arrangements are being made at once. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Fischl.]] So come on, Fischl, you're on now. Say something good. Come on! Yes, he has baffled me, just as Mr Haigermoser, as elected representative of the people, has baffled me today. [[Abg. Fischl: You can say that someone calls you as a people's representative, not "disgusting"!]] I have the courage to say that, in contrast to you. So, do you have anything to say? - Okay, thank you, now we're going on. [[Abg. Fischl: No!]] [[Abg. Kiss: You should become a teacher!]] So we've got a total of...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8692	Excuse me, but the floor is still being given by the Bureau. – Mr Peter, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8707	Mr President. Since you didn't support me, I had to deal with it myself. So we now have a law that I do not believe is the Ultima ratio, but I believe that it is a law worthy of the consent of the Liberals, for a very simple reason, because it appears to be in the black, which is a reform of a professional system – the ban on advertising has already been mentioned – because it makes it possible to create several mixed firms, interdisciplinary firms and, above all, to create more competition. I can very well imagine that in this House we are entering into a discussion about whether we need compulsory membership in the area of small chambers of freelances. We have produced a paper in this regard and have been very intensive in the question of what opportunities there would be, without compulsory membership, as is the case in other countries, to run the Chambers of Free Trade. However, I think it is useful to take this reform now without having to hold the principle debate. The same applies to the question of commercial accountants. If I want the commercial accountant under the current legal system, I will probably have to involve him or her in an economic chamber system that is the same as it is. The reform proposals of the liberals in the field of trade regulations and especially in the field of the Chamber of Commerce still remain. But I keep the three... [[Abg. Kiss is speaking to colleagues in the political groups.]] Please let me speak with you too! What is it about? [[Abg. Kiss: Football!]] Football, apologies, football. [[Abg. Fischl: That's incredible!]] Do you have anything to say? Mr President. Can you give him the word? He wants to say something.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8756	He is not on the list of speakers, Mr Peter.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8772	It comes from this right-hand side just not flat, so what should I discuss about it? So we have three levels of qualification. The commercial accountant will be similar... [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Well, now comes the usual question of the liberals, which the apple strudel in the "White Rössl". I'm holding it again: I don't know, I have to look into it. So there's a commercial accountant who's a cashier. I do not think the limit of value that we have imposed on him, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, is necessary because, according to his qualifications, he serves small businesses, and it is not necessary to set value limits there in accordance with the Federal Tax Code. In reality, the economic reality will be such that this commercial accountant for small businesses – about 80 percent of Austrian companies have less than 10 million turnover – even up to 16 million – will, of course, make the entire conclusion, as the entrepreneur – I understand – is signing this himself because he does not want to be represented in the financial sector. That's what's going to happen de facto. The independent accountant has a higher qualification. He is therefore an economic trustee himself. As long as we maintain the profession of economic fidelity in this way, I believe that there should also be the appropriate qualification tests. In contrast, I consider the qualification test, the related trade in the commercial accountant to be indispensable. This is because the actual qualification on the market decides whether it is good or bad, and not an examination made in the past. The liberals have still not recognized what is happening in the liberal professions with regard to the service, which offers completely new responsibilities and market opportunities for the business loyals, together with lawyers and with engineering consultants. Hiemit is for the first time in Austria the possibility for the establishment of interdisciplinary law firms! Mr Graf has been reminded that we have found notices on our Members' banks early on, stating that the Government's documents have already been sent to the High House. That is to say, this process of opening up professions is under way. I trust that the motion for a resolution is serious, even though it is in the end 31st place. It is limited in July. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a bill to which I can say yes as an oppositionist, and I do so very consciously, because I think it is wise. My criticism is that this law does not bring with it any real reform both of the Chambers of Commerce and of the Chamber of Commerce. But that would be too much for this reform. That is why this step is a step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8827	Mrs Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Langthaler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8848	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The history of this law and, above all, the lobbying that came from some has, at least, reminded me very much of the discussions surrounding the trade order, and I was very surprised that particularly representatives of the so-called liberal professions then, when it comes to their own concerns, do not really think very liberally and freely, but above all remember to protect their own monopoly, their own treasure box. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: My comment on the professional change law of lawyers you must read!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. I went to this committee with an extremely open opinion. In one Member of this House, Mr Haigermoser is undoubtedly right: The law is definitely better than nothing! That's what he said. I have listened very carefully to the arguments put forward in this committee by both the government parties and by Mr Peter and the liberals. I must tell you that in this case I was simply convinced by the government parties. I would like to mention a few examples of why, from the Greens' point of view, I very consciously agree with this law today, five reasons which have perhaps not been so precisely identified here: The first reason is undoubtedly that it is an enormous advantage to create commercial accounting in the field of trade regulations. The Greens have always been committed to this, and I think it is excellent that this is finally happening. We have already mentioned this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that there is no right to represent the financial authorities. A second, quite specific example, which I think is very easy to understand, is that it is indeed possible by breaking up a very rigid system – copyright of Mr Heindl, I have to say – that it can create a 16-year-old HASCH graduate, a 16-year-old HASCH graduate, that is, a trade school graduate, with corresponding examinations and regulations up to the tax advisor. This is indeed a great leap, and this is a progress towards the current regulation! This brings me to a point that really annoyed me with the faxes of the economic fidelity, something which, in my view, was more of a reverse effect: That's the academic dark that hit through there. No one can tell me that a previously self-employed accountant in an economic fidelity firm has so far obviously not done her job properly, reasonablely and excellently, just because she is not an academic! In practice, it is often so that it does the work, the economic loyalty, the tax advisor "haut" the stamp on it – and it goes to finance. To date, the actual work is usually done by self-employed accountants, who have now been stamped by the economic fiduciaries in the faxes we have received, apparently as not able to do so. That really bothered me. A fourth point, which is why I very much welcome this law, is that it will be easier for women, perhaps in difficult regions, especially in the country, to find a new job as accountants. This is a very clear argument, and I am surprised that this is completely negated by the liberals. A fifth point – and I do not understand Mr Graf at all, because we have discussed this in committee – is that there is a very interdisciplinary fact in this law, for the first time! I do not understand your argument at all, because this was the point in the Committee that it will at last be possible in this area, Community law firms, Community practices, if They want to start up in this area. The dual system and, from my point of view, the self-employed accountants are still, in part, very bureaucratic, very rigid obstacles to me, also a point in which I think: Well, there's a lot of compromise inside, and the two coalition parties, the two government parties, have just been arrested by an existing system with all its weaknesses. But when you think of yourself as an opposition party, as on many other points: If the glass is more or less half full or half empty? then you can say: In this case, it is half full, and as a critical opposition party, one can undoubtedly give its approval to this law. And that's what we're doing today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8890	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8920	Mr President. Minister! Mr Haigermoser! In fact, today's decision-making ends a long discussion. There has already been a discussion about a bookkeeping industry since the big industrial innovation. In the discussion of the extent to which this should be put, there were various suggestions, there were also various proposals across the parties. Each of us in the committee was naturally confronted with economic fidelity, with accountants, with business consultants, and of course each of them has told his philosophy. I believe that the current solution, which has already been approved in the Committee on Budgets, is still widely accepted in plenary today. The Liberals and the Greens have also announced their agreement to this act. I do not understand the liberals, Mr Haigermoser: It is known that the liberals are always committed to debureaucratisation, to the breaking-up of old structures, to the fact that more liberal elements are coming in. Get away with the protected areas!, you hear again and again. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Right!]] Is that true? That is why I do not understand Mr Graf, who here defends the lawyers, because every time we deal with our own areas, we are no longer liberal. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (keeping a brochure in height) Here we have it, that's the model!]] Then you don't want all of this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] From today's day on, we call this policy of the liberals the "semi-politics". Do you agree? [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What's he got against the little bakers? You'll get rid of the basket! From it it is with the fresh chicken for breakfast!]] I believe that the change in the trade regulations and the new WTBG are a desirable compromise. The facts speak for themselves. This is not a question of the change in the trade regulations and of the WTBG, but of the fact that this created two occupational images – and that must also be said clearly – in the trade regulation with a certain extent and in the economic loyalty law with a certain extent. The market is opened with 13.3 percent of sales, i.e. one has really taken into account the intentions of market opening. It must also be emphasized: With what we decide today, we adapt certain things to reality. This must also be stressed. How often did something happen under the hand, in the black area? All of this is now legalised accordingly by these changes. We also create conditions to promote self-employment, and this will create additional jobs. Interesting is the field study commissioned by the Chamber of Economic Trustees: The economic operators believe that they have competitive advantages in terms of important competences, such as reliability towards the independent accountant, even after the decision that, in the price-performance ratio, accountants may have an advantage. I think it is a step in the right direction, towards liberalisation, towards permeability, and the next few years will show whether we have set the right course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e8999	Mr Kiermaier has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9020	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the way to Europe, increased competition is a matter of course, which does not, of course, stop before tax advisors and economic trustees. The abolition of the Honorary and Competition Directives was extremely timely; we very much welcome it. In order to clarify it immediately: The smoke catchers were started, and the end is far from reached, ladies and gentlemen. It is really not to be seen that price monitoring and consumer protection apply only to certain professional groups, while others have scope. The foreign exchange is: Same right for everyone! The so-called honorary notes are most likely to receive the character of an invoice, and it cannot be that there are differences of 100 percent and more. Ladies and gentlemen! That, as I hear again and again, the clients in many cases get pentibly charged every smallest phone call, each stamp is charged by computer program, is just as repulsive. This must be presented in the service sector, ladies and gentlemen. There would be something like that inconceivable! There are a number of benefits that are not honoured. What would someone say, for example, if he went to a coffee house or a guest house today, paid his bill and got a post "magazine fee" because he read the paper? – There are other examples. Or: For example, if a craftsman creates a cost estimate, Ladies and gentlemen, who require a lot of work, then qualified forces are active for days – and then he does not get the job. No one can calculate that either. But the rulers in this area about which it is here mean they can calculate any handhold! This will probably no longer be possible in the future, which is urgently abolished. In some cases, I expressly say in part, some trustees are involved in a cramer’s soul nature, which should not actually exist in this profession. Ladies and gentlemen! The profession of the independent accountant is welcomed by us in every form, and we are very glad that it was created. Also the commercial accountant – even no question – is a good thing. It has already occurred today that there are many small companies where the booking work – and I know what I am talking about – takes about half a day a week. It is much, much more useful when a commercial accountant cares for several such small companies. He has a legal profession, he has his field of activity – I think that was a market gap that was urgently necessary to fill. The experts who work in this field, ladies and gentlemen, are simply doing all the work. That is why I cannot imagine, and no one can convince me that small businesses are badly served by those commercial accountants who can do all the work and the representation in a small company. I only think this is legitimate! I can only say, ladies and gentlemen: This is not a "low air" that hurts here, colleague Haigermoser, but that is a proper reform. The Free Economic Association and our Social Democrats are behind it – and we also thank the coalition partner that he has participated in it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9065	Mr Marizzi is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Similarly, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9086	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I too want to make my speech positive because I believe that this law, which we are adopting today, is a de-bureaucratisation, a liberalisation, and I do not want to thank Mrs Tichy-Schreder and Mr Kurt Heindl, who have done a really good job in months of negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofmann said: Well, jobs, what's that? . We have discussed this law in great detail in committee, and I am also pleased about what Mr Langthaler said and would like to repeat it: This law will, of course, create many, many women's jobs, especially in rural areas. I believe that the relevant framework conditions are set for it today. The potential for jobs that can be created by this law is 3,000 to 5,000. I can recall, Mr Federal Minister, that you said that this law can develop a dynamic which could also create up to 10,000 jobs. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud if 3,000 to 5,000 or perhaps even 10,000 new jobs are created by this law to be adopted today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Graf. This law also means detachment, opening up. It is continuous and also offers so-called small people ascent opportunities. There will also be less black work. The persons concerned have the possibility to rise from the accountant to the tax advisor, and this law also provides for other high opportunities of entry. And, my God, if the academic principle falls, then the world has not collapsed either. Why should one not work from below, through courses and so on, if he has chosen his profession wrong at the time, why can't he choose a different job? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's okay from me! I didn't even scribble at that!]] – They are always for debureaucratisation and liberalisation. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] – I only have 4 minutes of speaking time! It also does not matter, Mr Haigermoser, which chamber membership exists. It is important that the vocational colleges be upgraded to carry out examinations. You have reported that you received many letters from those concerned. I also received a few hundred letters. We are asked, for example, to assist those concerned in the implementation of these wishes of the more than 250 000 Austrian companies and the more than 16 000 Austrian accountants. – And that is exactly what is happening today, ladies and gentlemen. The value limits were also regulated, which has already been mentioned. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And - be careful! – there are also criminal measures to protect the taxpayers, Mr Haigermoser, in order to protect them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] – Spread roses and stay with no stems. Last but not least, I would also like to thank the silent workers of the ministry, first of all Dr. Bernbacher. I think he has done a really good job in this regard. This law, ladies and gentlemen, and on it we are very proud of the coalition, means a cutting off of old pots, and therefore we are happy to give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9153	Mr Magistrate has also been mentioned in the debate. Gaßner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9175	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Good thing needs a while, it's said, and for a while it took this new economic loyalty law. Whether it's a good thing, at least the stakeholders judge very different: The accountants are not too far away, the economic fidelity goes too far. – I think it’s a good thing for many reasons that have already been mentioned today. I can repeat three of them again. First of all, it offers a large group of people the opportunity to take the path into independence, and in addition – my previous speaker pointed out – to find the way out of illegality. We know that very many books are made black, especially in the micro-business sector. By removing – a second point – the Honorary and Competition Directives, for the first time by law, a professional monopoly is decommissioned, although not completely eliminated. A third point – and this one has already been called the more often – is: The permeability of training and thus of professional careers, without compulsory higher education and without Matura, is a very great achievement of this law. The fact that the liberal monopoly of economic fidelity and tax advisors has not yet been completely eliminated shows the discussion, for example when it comes to the right to conclude books. Although the independent accountant may now complete up to the limits of the BAO 125, he may only carry books for the double limit. Why – who can explain this to me? – can he also conclude a 10 million schillings? Is that not a defence of a certain market share? The question of what happens when the borders are crossed is still to be clarified in my opinion. Or: Why can't he represent the customer at the financial authority? It must be borne in mind that the balance sheet and all that belongs to it must be signed by the trader himself and the authority itself. So: Where is it explained why he, the independent accountant, cannot represent him? A needle tube – and I would also like to point out – seems to me to be the composition of these examination committees. Although this has become much, much better compared to the original draft, the Chamber of Commerce still has a hearing right when it comes to the Presidency; it still proposes half of the audit commissioners. I wish the Minister of Economic Affairs good luck today if he fails to comply with the proposals in this regard and with the consultation of the Chamber of Economic Trustees. I think – and this has actually been emphasized by all sides – that the path that has been taken by this law is right! Let me read a quote from the "Press" of 27. January 1999 – I don't give it literally, but only in terms of content – ends: The Alpine Creditor Association notes that the fees of the economic trustees as accountants with higher education diplomas are moving in quite high spheres for small entrepreneurs. It is also noted that, despite these college graduates, there has not been a single company in which accountancy would have been in order in recent years. So it can only be better for accountants with no higher education qualifications, but it can be cheaper in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9227	Furthermore, Mr Mag. Mag. Mayer to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9248	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one deals with the economic loyalty law, then it is quite right to deal with the task of trustees in general, namely the activity of notaries, lawyers or traders who take over such loyal activities. It is about the disappearance or neglect or mistrust of trust funds. The topic is more up-to-date than ever: I recall the discussion about the case of lawyer Jeannée, in which hundreds of millions are sought, but I also recall the case of Rosenstingl, who, as a lawyer, has received trust funds that have disappeared for his business loyalty companies. The Economic and Social Committee has therefore adopted a resolution in which the Federal Minister for Justice has until 31. It was called on on on July to present the creation of a Federal Trust Register and, at the same time, to establish general civil law provisions on the control of trust in the ABGB. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is about a new regulation in the ABGB, it is about a model loyalty contract, it is about a federal loyalty register, and it is an insurance package so that consumers and entrepreneurs are not harmed. With such a realization, we create greater legal certainty for consumers and at the same time trust in the trust professions. We Social Democrats will continue to pursue this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9284	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. The rapporteur did not agree to his conclusion. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. I would ask you to take the places for this purpose. I ask the staff to leave the courses between the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1635 of the supplements. This draft law contains constitutional provisions. I therefore establish the constitutionally prescribed presence quorum. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of this bill to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft is accepted. I would like to point out that the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution are given. We shall now proceed to the third reading. If you would like to give the draft law the third reading, I would also ask for a sign to be given. – This is the case in most cases. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1635. If you would like to join this resolution, I would ask for a sign to this effect. – This is the majority, therefore adopted. (E 155.) We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1636 of the supplements. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. If you wish to give your consent at third reading, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too is done by the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1637 of the supplements. Mr Tichy-Schreder, Mr Heindl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment on paragraphs 2 and 3. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall therefore come to the third reading immediately. In the case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign at third reading. – This too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (1555 of the Supplements): Federal Law, with which the BIG Act, BGBl. No. 419/1992, amended (5. BIG Law Novelle (1640 of the Supplements) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 821/A (E) by Mr Mag. Reinhard Firlinger and comrades concerning the suspicion of price agreements in civil and road construction (1641 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9423	I now call on points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9454	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! We are now debating the amendment of the 1992 BIG Act. These are essentially three points: The first point is the planned use of the Epstein Palace by Parliament, the second point the transfer of the Althanstraße University Centre to the BIG, and the third point is the marketing of another 1,200 housing units, which essentially come from the state defense sector, by the BIG. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The easiest thing is probably to look at the case of Palais Epstein. We liberals welcome the fact that the Palais Epstein can and will be used by Parliament in the future. We are convinced that it will succeed to take this object into account, on the one hand, the monument protection and, on the other hand, modern and practical requirements, in the parliamentary operation – we are, in particular, the liberals, who will suffer ever more pressingly from the need for space from choice and therefore know how to benefit this building very well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the second point, the transfer of the University Centre Althanstraße to the BIG, is concerned, I would like to pay tribute to Ladies and gentlemen, we should also keep in mind the interests of science. I have already said in the Committee – and we will continue to be critical of this – that the cost development for universities through renting to the BIG is very worrying. For example, the rental costs in 1997 amounted to 1,105 billion schillings, and in 1999 this amount will already amount to 1.9 billion schillings. This accounts for 6.7 percent of the science budget. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They know that research, development and science in Austria in particular have a great need to be determined to have many well-trained academics. It should not be seen that in this area there is a budget shift from science to economics, possibly at the expense of science. Minister! I would remind you of your statement made in committee that we should not feel sorry for the wrong ones, no pity for science which, according to your statement, has little awareness of the cost of spaces and resources. I, Mr Minister, and my group, feel sorry for the universities, for research, because it is about the future, and it is very much our heart. The third point: BIG 1 200 housing units from the field of national defence for the purpose of marketing to the transport value shall be transferred to BIG. In principle, we welcome the possibility for tenants and residents to acquire property under fair conditions. However, we also know that there are many problems in marketing – as a keyword I mention here only the mixed property or even speculation accusations, which go to the point that wholesalers buy large objects and breed raised tenants over new housing costs. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are repeated questions regarding the state of play in the marketing of properties and the transparency of the transactions relating to this marketing. You yourself have confirmed, Minister, that there are very many questions on this subject in the parliamentary field. Voices To make this request in the light of the transparency of this project and the optimal marketing of these properties! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9530	The motion for a resolution that has just been read is properly tabled, duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dr. Schwimmer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9554	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The 5. BIG-Novelle contains some very important projects that hide behind this very technically sounding name. First of all, these novels are sold by the federal government to the BIG or to a company in its sole ownership, 1 200 dwellings, which are to be carried out in accordance with the parent law as usual. In other words, there is the possibility of continuing to sell these apartments to the interested tenants in particular, a way that is successful, which I very much welcome and which, I believe, should also be continued in other areas. Whenever tenants are interested in the acquisition of property, they should be allowed to do so. I hope, for example, that the negotiations with the coalition partner on residential changes will open up the possibility of removing previous barriers, and that, for example, in the area of the housing law on non-profit-making, the possibility of manipulation by the builder insofar as he is able to prevent the tenant from obtaining a right to acquisition by delaying the time of payment of the basic costs. Another important area of the BIG-Novelle is the rounding out of the support of the university institutions in Vienna by the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. Almost all university institutions are already cared for by the BIG. The newly built university building Althanstraße has been paid off in the meantime, so new it is no longer at all. Therefore, it is useful to also transfer this building to the fruit of the BIG and thus achieve a uniform care of the entire university properties in Vienna. That's the reason and nothing else. The statements of my previous speaker have therefore become empty. As a Viennaer and as a museum interested person, I am also pleased that this novelle will create an important prerequisite for better opportunities for the Technical Museum, especially for the construction of a hall in which the transport exhibition can be accommodated. At the same time, parking is created. A very important point for Parliament – we should confess it quietly and express it here – is the provision of the former City School Council building, the Epstein Palace, for Parliament – a thought that is not so new at all. I have been representing my club for a number of years in the so-called space committee of the House, and we have already considered this very suitable town school council building for its proximity and its facilities for Parliament's purposes to extend Members' working opportunities in a timely manner, even at a reasonable distance, such as when it comes to obtaining a vote, which is, of course, also very important for parliamentary operations. The fact that we were able to rent the building on the Schenkenstraße for Parliament's purposes was very welcome at the time, but it is by no means so convenient. This Palais Epstein was discussed before the transfer for use for Parliament's purposes, because it was associated with an idea of creating a "house of the history of time" or a "house of tolerance". I think this is very important, and I also think it is important that it be supported by Parliament. But precisely because this idea is so important, one cannot use the nearest building, regardless of its suitability for this purpose. A "house of the history of time", and even more a "house of tolerance", cannot be a pure exhibition matter. This cannot be a purely museum, but it is a matter of enabling an interactive event to give visitors the opportunity to really deal with the history of the time of Austria, the heights and depths of our history of time, and the serious violations of human rights and tolerance. An interactive integration of the visitors of such an institution is quite, very important. It is therefore necessary to carry out the relevant studies and to look for the appropriate premises with care and then to make them available before such a facility is created. I have already said in the Building Committee on the adoption of the BIG-Novelle that, with the acquisition of the Epstein Palace for Parliament, the "House of Time" or the "House of Tolerance" is by no means cut off, quite the contrary: We want to pursue this. The clubman of my group, Andreas Khol, has also made every effort to ensure that we can take a joint decision. I am therefore pleased that I am entitled to submit the following five-party request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am pleased that this request will find such a broad basis in the house that it will be submitted as a five-party proposal, that we will continue to follow with emphasis the ideas of the "House of Time" of the "House of Tolerance". It should also be included in the proposal of the Cultusgemeinschaft to create a house or a centre of the Shoa, which is also supported by Simon Wiesenthal, because this is unfortunately a tragic part of our history and a reminder of tolerance and to achieve a decent behavior towards all our fellow citizens. I would ask that this request, as well as the BIG-Novelle, be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9636	The motion for a resolution that has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. I am now interrupting the negotiations on agenda items 5 and 6 by calling for a second short debate at 3 p.m. in accordance with business rules. Short debate on Question Time 4831/AB
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9660	We are now entering into a short debate on the question raised by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 4831/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so reading by the writer is not sufficient. We are going into the debate. I make the following time limits according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure: Applicants for reasons not exceeding 10 minutes, each other speaker maximum 5 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by reported State Secretary shall not exceed 10 minutes. For the reason, Mr Mag. Stadler. 10 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e9694	Mr President. High house! We have called for this today's question, among other things, because, a few days ago, the future head of state of Carinthia, Dr. Haider, accused you of increasingly decaying justice, the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: What is it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The future head of state!]] – The future head of state of Carinthia, if you have not yet noticed. You won't be there, Mrs Gredler! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, the Federal Minister has reacted quite strongly to the accusation that the rule of law has increasingly been rotted under this judicial system. [[Abg. Smolle: He should already want to become Federal Chancellor!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Your reaction, Mr. Federal Minister, was actually unnecessary. Instead of shooting Dr. Haider, the future head of state of Carinthia, you would have had to go there and get your justice straight. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Where's Haider?]] I refer to a question which is being debated today. Even your own President-in-Office, Mrs Fekter, who is not here now, who always shines by absence when it comes to her, tells you, in connection with the Causa Rieger, that the law enforcement of the President of the Bank has been suspended for months. [[Abg. Mr Partik-Pablé: Mr President! There's a noise level! Can't you get rid of that?]] That's what you should've done. You should have examined whether the accusation that the rule of law in Austria was rotted under your ministry might not have been true. Federal Minister! In today’s daily newspapers it was to be read that another example of decay in judicial care in this country is to be debated today. They have read, the Austrian People's Party submits a urgent request. I don't know, Minister of State, if you've got these urgents. – You just read it in the paper. I have succeeded in getting from the ÖVP the urgent request she has not made, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the liberals:Aha!]] Mr Fekter and Mr Wurmitzer have a serious question, always when it comes to the FPÖ, concerning recurring FPÖ accusations of a alleged political justice in Austria. – Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request has not been submitted. This is particularly embarrassing for the applicants because they are now going to have a complaint in the house. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's it!]] Mrs Fekter is, as has been said, chairman of the Committee on Justice. - You don't need to be afraid, Mrs. Bauer! You have never noticed, but your colleague Wurmitzer, who is not there, Mr Spindelegger, who is not here, and Mrs Fekter, who is not here,... Jö, Mr Spindelegger – the grey mouse in the background with the social apartment, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: There he is!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There's one of the perpetrators! The complaint, Mr Spindelegger, is already finished, it will be brought in. You will have to stand straight for your colossal false claims. They were such a thing of not being informed – most of them you are – only this time you have been at the expense of the Freedom Party in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He always is!]] This time you were at the expense of an undertaking of the FPÖ. You just quoted the wrong thing, you've been a false informant, I'm going to go into a little bit of glue. And now you have to stand in court for the whole thing. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Riegerbank!]] Federal Minister! Then your justice will have the opportunity to burn a sentence on the fur, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spindelegger, Mrs Fekter, President of the Justice Committee, and Mr Wurmitzer, in the case of an ÖVP minister, as she did in another case. [[Abg. Mr Fekter: Mr President! On the matter!]] For false claims, such as Mr Wurmitzer, Mrs Fekter and Mr Spindelegger... – I know he is not going through. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He won't do that!]] I know that the Minister is not one of the most brave, we all know. But he should at least ensure that his justice has impartial jurisdiction, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP: This is immense!]] For this shame, Mr Spindelegger, you will stand before the justice of this minister. I hope that you will, and probably, make a condemnation for this mutilation, just as it happens, ladies and gentlemen, to everyone who makes the following false statement: We would not pay 29 companies millions of claims these companies would have against us. – That's wrong! Mr Spindelegger, who is of course an official, is messing up a few companies, which is not unusual. [[Abg. Steibl: This is an insult to the officials!]] But I've always believed that a gravel mine owner knows at least several companies and can keep three companies apart. However, this cannot be done by the President of the Committee on Justice, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The problem, however, is another: She finally had a dizzy informant, Mr. Head. That's the man who's already considered by the criminal police to be a not entirely serious informant. He first goes to the SPÖ club and exits, they then race to "NEWS", and now he has landed at the ÖVP, which makes an urgent request which they do not then bring in, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Smolle: How do you know?]] That's how it works. This is Mr. Head. It is also mentioned in the urgent question raised by the ÖVP in several questions, ladies and gentlemen. Is that not a proof from you... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Where's Haider?]] Mrs Fekter has now arrived – a special applause for the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs and their false claims! Mrs Fekter! You'll have to stand straight for that. With your questions, which you would like to make here in the House, which you would like to prove that this judicial system is not supposed to be rotten, you, as President of the Justice Committee, have made a significant contribution to the fact that the accusation that the rule of law has been ruined in Austria is true. This is the problem of a President of the Justice Committee who has some semi-worldly types of information. That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're making the wrong speech, Mr. Stadler!]] You should have heard at your own press conference that you are on the wrong steamer, Mrs Fekter! [[Abg. Smolle: Mr Stadler!]] I would like to give you a few other examples of a depraved justice. [[Abg. Smolle: Mr Stadler!]] Let me give you an example from a ministry of your own party, Mrs Deputies. [[Abg. Smolle: What are you using justice for when it's rotted?]] There are, for example, the staff of the Minister Molterer, who pays off any gages that may not be paid under the civil service law. He thus damages the Republic because these employees do his party work. All this is displayed. Do you know what Mr. Minister will answer? – He says: At present there is no reason for the public prosecutor to honor the case again legally, although he says in advance that the whole is punishable and constitutes a criminal conduct, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Smolle! You'd better watch out!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: On the matter!]] But only then, if the Court of Auditors confirms this to you, Mr Minister, will your prosecutors have a desire to do so and the ability to comply with the law, to file a fine and an indictment. [[Abg. Mr Puttinger: on the matter, Mr President.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What does this have to do with the Riegerbank?]] What's that? . I call the rotted criminal justice care under your ministry. What kind of criminal justice is this when a judge in St. Pölten tells the criminal officials that it is not allowed to talk about what the ÖVP has to do when it comes to advertising a crime, namely the crime of commercial fraud? You can't talk about it, you'll want to cover it up in all secrecy. Or: Let's talk about the ÖVP municipality of Meierhofer from Semmering, a lawyer who currently has a criminal proceedings. I am already excited how your rotten criminal justice will deal with this gentleman. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: This is immense!]] [[Abg. Smolle: Let's talk about Rosenstingl!]] Mr. Schmolle! I've just got a Carinthian in my eye. Mr. Schmolle! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: What do you say to Rosenstingl? Have you already filed an indictment?]] Listen to what the "Kärntner Zeitung" writes about this: A good advice on Rosenstingl: ==References====External links== March with the urn gang waiting. The situation for the FPÖ will certainly be even more brilliant until then, because the Causa Rosenstingl is only the beginning. If the timing of justice is right, then the red and black coalition could still benefit from the affair for a long time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who said that?]] – This quote comes from this daily newspaper, Kärntner TZ. That's the thinking of this justice! Minister! They need action on a number of occasions. Not only has Mrs Fekter said that your justice has allowed Mr Rieger to run. Mr President, Mr Woratsch will already know what he is talking about if he has criticized a few days ago on the occasion of a birthday celebration that the risk of criminal justice, the case law in that country being put under political curate is evident. Didn't you notice that? [[Abg. Smolle: He probably thought about the FPÖ!]] Mr. Schmolle! They rarely understand links, but you should be aware that the Minister of Justice does not come from the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister of Justice is one who swings to and fro between red and black, but this is not a very "grandous" opposition politician like Mr. Schmolle, ladies and gentlemen, the House of Lords! The problem with this judicial system is also that, for example, written instructions are given in matters of duty. I have a different document from your ministry here. Mr. Ministerial Councillor Dr. Schütz even gives the court instructions on how to proceed in a child affairs matter because the child father by chance is called Habsburg-Lorraine. There he was unpleasantly touched. That is why justice has been given an instruction on how to do this. It is represented in the third person. That's what it says: Moreover, without wishing to prejudge the case law, the District Court of the Inner City has to make a decision, and then the text comes as the decision has to be made. Ladies and gentlemen! I call your justice rotted, Minister of State! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You should not have waited until Mrs Fekter comes to know himself nowhere, or Mr Spindelegger with his social home to show you how criminal justice in that country looks. We will do this in the next few years. In a similar case, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister, the Minister of Justice had to resign in Canada because it took fishing axes far more seriously with independent justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10162	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10178	My conclusion is: We will have a test case where Mrs Fekter, Mr Spindelegger and Mr Wurmitzer will stand before the court, and then we will see how rotten justice is in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10208	Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). From now on, 5 minutes of speaking time limit per speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10229	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to mention, first of all, that I heard in the early part of the day why this urgent request by the ÖVP, originally planned, was withdrawn. I am not the speaker of the ÖVP, but I think it is remarkable, and you should say this immediately to your "great" speech, Mr Stadler. The reason for this is that yesterday an avalanche accident happened, the consequences of which we all know. There is a piety in this House which has led to the decision not to make this urgent request today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has nothing to do with piety! That's a shame!]] I respect this wish, I respect this procedure, I think it is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] It remains for you to withdraw a spectacle here, which is cheap and unscrupulous, which is, in fact, typical of you and dangerous to democracy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Today, colleague Stadler is trying to divert from all the criminally relevant incidents in a larmoyant way, just as we know it from the past – there are enough reasons to be careful now. I'm just looking at how obviously your supervisor, the great leader, has carried us around the nose for the last 15 years with his tax record. It is by chance, by taking an insight into the tax act, that he may have committed a tax fraud. I understand, of course, that you want to draw attention to other things. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Jarolim! Now it's time for you to talk about it!]] Mr Stadler! I would like to say the following: I think you yourself are a threat to democracy, you personally, because you have perhaps explained to us today ten times why this state is a corrupted rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Talk to Riegerbank!]] I reject this allegation with all the ambiguity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am not just saying this for my group, but I would also like to express it on behalf of those who cannot defend themselves. How does the judiciary get to the point of how do prosecutors get along with all those who work in a judicial system that works impeccablely, who work in a judicial system with which you are increasingly in trouble? . We know, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ that you will get even more trouble because the pre-punishment register of those close to you will become even longer. Ladies and gentlemen! But let us go here and put the discussion on the head and say that justice has been rotted just because you have problems with justice, that is the last thing, and this is above all a process that we already know, namely, of conditions that we do not want! That is why you must expect us to say that you, Mr Stadler, are a threat to democracy. Please note! Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You want to block everything! You want to block every discussion!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I do not think it is a matter of advocating a discussion. There are enough points that I can also tell you. I can explain two aspects to you so that you can understand, Mr Stadler, what I mean. You understand, but you're acting like you don't understand. There are two points: The first concerns the threat of democracy. The turn of "reddish rule of law" includes a symbolism that we all know. It's unnecessary to talk about it. The name "reddished rule of law" – this term was used by you, as well as the expressions that concentration camps are "straflager" and that Austria is a "miscarriage". Let us not forget the 'ordinary employment policy', ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's all wrong!]] They don't learn from history. You distance yourself from it, you tell voters outside that you didn't mean it, but you come back with the same accusations and show you whose spirit child you are. We take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're quoting wrong right now!]] The second point is that you are simply honest... – Mr Stadler! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I just don't expect it at all. That's sad, but it's a fact. You also have to say in which areas you have such difficulties with justice, which is the case. I think we only recently experienced it at the Causa Meischberger. You've been looking for a university professor and wanted to give him this assignment until you've noticed that doesn't work. They didn't find any serious lawyers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's where Fuhrmann was better!]] Then it looked quite different again. He says I'm innocent, I was sentenced by the OGH for political justice. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about Federal Councillor Pfeifer?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pepper, Concilia!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is so clear that even the chickens laugh at it! You have lawyers in your ranks who know more than you do, Mr Stadler! I am surprised that there is not an uproar among these whether this almost unbelievable procedure is taking place. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all that you have offered us today, and what your clubman and leader will still offer us with his tax record in the future, will certainly help to make the people react to you in the way they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10425	Mr Dr. It's stupid. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10447	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler, we are certainly used to all kinds of things by you in this House, but you always surprise us again and again, you always succeed in surpassing yourself. [[Abg. Koppler: Everything!]] Its contribution to today's debate in the context of a question on Riegerbank has offered such a mixture of political futility, abuse of the freedom of speech in Parliament and Carinthian elections, as it is difficult to overcome. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a urgent request from the ÖVP!]] All in a row, Mr Stadler! It is completely undisputed, and I confirm here that my group was indeed prepared to table a urgent question today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Fekter, Wurmitzer – your urgent!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This has nothing to do with election struggle?]] But this distinguishes us in political style, in political culture, Mr Stadler: We have said that in view of this avalanche disaster, it would not be responsible for carrying out a political hack here, as you have just done, Mr Stadler. This is just the difference, and the citizen can now take a picture. In that respect, I think it is very good that you have spoken. You have held a debate here on a urgent matter which has not been brought in at all, and has not been brought in for reasons of piety! [[Abg. May. Stadler: What are you doing for the avalanches?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are you doing for the victims? Say that!]] Mrs. Colleague! You prove with your calls that you haven't understood it so far! They did not understand until the hour that these urgent ones were not brought in for reasons of piety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is an insurmountable summit of tastelessness to make a urgent request, which has not been made for the reasons mentioned, to be the subject of cheap political change. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you think that the avalanches have something of it? What are you doing for the avalanches?]] Mr Stadler! Once again, you have succeeded in overcoming negative messages. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nor has it been rare, Mr President, that in a question debate the real issue has not been discussed with any single word. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are you doing for the avalanches?]] I have to say honestly, Mr President, it is not my duty to play a replacement president, but I would have taken personal account of the calls for action. Mr Stadler has not even mentioned the Riegerbank, not a single sentence on the real issue of political desire, that is Riegerbank, here! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Stummvoll! Tell me what you're doing for the avalanches!]] It was clear that a cheap political spectacle should be carried out, with those expressions that my previous speaker rightly criticized and which your true face, Mr Stadler, once again showed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We from the People's Party made this request to the Minister of Justice at the time. We have received the answer. It was correct in our opinion, the questions were answered correctly. No answer has been criticised today because you have not answered the whole question at all. We're just saying: Although the answers of the Minister of Justice were quite correct for us, the subject of Riegerbank, Supervisory, Control et cetera has not yet been dealt with for us – but not in the sense of a political aspect, but in the sense of serious proposals: What can we do so that even such small banks, which do not even have a promenade of the balance sheet of our banking landscape, do not endanger the saver, the investment seeker and the confidence in our financial and capital market? That is why we are very serious: If there is a need for action, then in the area of greater efficiency of banking supervision. In the next few days, I can announce that we will put forward a motion for a resolution aimed at improving the efficiency of banking supervision, because we are indeed looking at a need for action in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I think we must do everything we can to ensure the confidence of the saver, the confidence of the investment seeker in the strength and security of our money and financial market. That is why we will make serious proposals and present them for discussion in the House. How can we strengthen the efficiency of banking supervision without subtracting such a cheap political aspect as you have managed again today, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10627	Mr Khol has reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10649	Mr President. I followed Mr Stadler's speech in my office on the TV screen. I have missed the fact that, contrary to the agreements we have reached at the President's Conference, you have not given the call 'for business'. I would ask that, in the event of deviations from the call 'for a cause', an extraordinary presidential conference and a break in the session should not be granted.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10679	Mr. Klubobmann Khol! I followed up the speech from the Bureau. I have indeed had the hope in some passages that the honourable Member will come back to the subject again. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] This hope has also been fulfilled, I must say, Mr Khol. This hope has also been fulfilled. I do not think that Mr Stadler has gone further – perhaps longer but no further – than Mr Magistrate. Mayer at the previous item on the agenda, when he referred to Mr Rosenstingl in a very broad context. That was my assessment of the two words. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then you would have given him the call "to cause" there!]] [[Further calls and calls between the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10734	Mr President. You have the Rules of Procedure. We have agreed in the President that, in such cases, exactly the call for 'a matter' will be granted, and I will request a partsession if you do not manage the Rules of Procedure in the future. - Think of the main!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10758	Of course, please. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The next speaker is Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10795	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think it is an incredible presumption by Mr Khol to influence the President-in-Office of the Council, and I would even like to say that he is in need of speaking practice. That's your understanding of democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is the righteous rule of law!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not a word in the Rules of Procedure! Please speak to the debate and not to the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr Khol! Mr Jarolim did not say a word to the Riegerbank!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10844	Mr Krüger! The Bureau is very likely to appreciate its decisions and to defend itself against such accusations in the Presidential Assembly. I also believe that I will teach contentions there. I ask you to really talk about it! The Bureau does not need a defender! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e10859	Mr Jarolim! In the Committee's work - I can say that - I appreciate you as a relevant politician. But what you have done today is really not only a Member but also a lawyer deeply unworthy! I have to tell you that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, as a representative of the Republic of Austria, who is advocating our constitution and the presumption of innocence, are saying that Mr Haider has a tax fraud to answer. It's all the worse! I would not forgive another person who is not associated with the legal values or with the judicial system as you do, because he does not know himself. But that as a trained lawyer, in flagrant violation of the presumption of innocence, you call someone, an innocent citizen, a tax fraud, that's a shame! This is a low point in this House, ladies and gentlemen. That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should deal with Mr. Stadler!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you seem safe – I repeat: hypocrites! . try to protect justice, then I refer to all the "exclusions" of President Fischer in connection with the convictions in the Sinowatz-Worm complex when he struck the court when he spoke of Austria as a judicial state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Copper]] Where did your cry or that of social democracy remain? – Here you measure with two different measurements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They measure with two different measurements once again. You have asked colleagues Meischberger to resign. Mr Meischberger has resigned. All your calendars you could get into the hair. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sleeve in the hair!]] What about colleague Pfeifer – colleague Pfeifer, former President of the Federal Council, supposedly respected parliamentarian of the Federal Council? What about it? – You say that is the free mandate, we do not demand anything, but Mr Meischberger should resign. Also there is another measurement with two measures. That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A Constitutional Law you required!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to address the Rieger issue, because it seems to me representative of the fact that justice measures by two measures. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Koncilia! Unterrainer!]] I have to tell you that. I am not satisfied with the answer to the question, I must also tell you. Mr President, you yourself have admitted that the act of advertising against the Riegerbank is situated for two months that nothing has happened. No word can be found in this reply, no word! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not new that justice in Austria is blind to one eye and that it is measured by two measures, in particular as regards the practice of direction, but, Minister of Justice, you are making it very easy. If the Procuratorate represents an opinion on an order, it will be corrected by the Chief Procuratorate and this correction will be taken note of by you. The Minister of Justice does not give any instructions, but he has a senior prosecutor's office that corrects the public prosecutor's office. For this, there are X examples, for example, the admissibility of Mr. Sipötz, the Council of State, the Deputy Head of State Sipötz in the Sinowatz-Worm process. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] The prosecutor wanted to bring an appeal. He's not allowed to do that. The Minister of Justice shall take note of this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smolle.]] Another example: The prosecutor wants preliminary surveys on the Causa Introduce one in connection with the Kurds office, the prosecutor wants to maintain preliminary surveys. The Chief Procuratorate says, "Certain." The Minister of Justice says: I take note of this, of course, because it is in the sense of social democracy. [[Abg. Smolle: There is no instruction!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Were they all employed at the Riegerbank? Was the employee of the Riegerbank?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Say "Riegerbank"!]] Minister of Justice! You're doing it from your point of view! You are extending your ministry – you have already extended it – because you know exactly what is happening to a truly independent minister in Austria like Mr Foregger. For four years he was untamed minister, but because he allowed the comrades from the government to be brought to trial for being sentenced, he had to take the hat. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is how it looks when it comes to preliminary surveys against SPÖ politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11022	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11038	Otherwise, of course, when it comes to the liberals, every means is right. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Once mention "Riegerbank"!]] If today a financial official says: There is nothing contained in the Causa Meischberger, we are closing the deal!, then it is very likely that further intervention will take place, and all possible remedies will be taken to finally condemn an unspoiled Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11067	I would ask you to put the final sentence to a close, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11083	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! It is a pity that the time is over, but I will provide you with further examples of the inconsistency of justice and your instructions. [[15:29]] President MMag. Dr Willi Brauneder: Deputies! The speaking time is exhausted. [[As a surprise to the liberals for the Democratal Member, Dr. Krüger, who leaves the speaker's seat.]] The Federal Minister for Justice has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11128	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I must reject both the claims made by Mr Stadler and my previous speaker, but also the statements made by your clubman in connection with the resignation of Meschberger, and reject the allegations against justice. [[Congratulations on SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] The claim, Mr deputies, that judges and prosecutors would have been interested and run by political instructions is an immense and unfounded assumption! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These unwarranted attacks are already irresponsible because they discredit the action of the justice system, which leads to a completely unfair threat to the trust of the people. [[Abg. Meisinger: Right!]] You yourself have raised cases today that you disprove in your argument. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: President Woratsch says that too!]] If you address the directions, Mr. Cot, I would like to ask you, please call me a single case of instruction, which would have been "political" - under quotation marks. That there are instructions from the Supreme Procuratorate to the Procuratorate... – What should be political? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Sipötz, Hatzl, One – everything politically!]] Is the Chief State Attorney political? – The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is the executive authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office in an instance. That is of course! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You certainly know the gasometer case!]] It is always the same method by which you argue here: either flat-rate attacks against which one cannot say anything, or you put – with great eloquence – cases in the room, which I did not understand correctly in detail because of the lack of good acoustics and against which one cannot say anything at the moment because of lack of knowledge of the nearer circumstances or memory. I invite you to present each one of the cases raised by Mr Stadler today. They and the public will receive an answer after the respective investigation. There is no case that could not be fully represented before the public. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I must therefore ask you urgently and call on you to return to an objective discussion, both in content and in tone, and in a matter as important as the functioning of the judicial system. I am ready to do so, and I ask you to be so.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11227	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to take up another point of view. Perhaps I should remind you of the subject of this debate, which is the Riegerbank. [[Abg. Smolle: A little earlier!]] It is difficult for the Bureau to find out in advance what a speaker is going to say, but in the end I would like to point out that the issue has not even been touched on the verge of some speakers. I would ask you to take this into account in the next speech. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: also from the Minister! The Minister has not even mentioned the Riegerbank!]] Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11284	Mr President. Federal Minister! We have once again experienced how the clubman of the Freedom Party confuses a parliamentary speech with emptying out a bubble of unflat here. The more members of the Free Party's mandates come into contact with the judiciary, are charged, unfortunately also condemned, the more divided the relationship between the Free Party and the Austrian judicial system. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is a development that is terrifying! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ODP representatives.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But not inadmissible!]] We are having a debate today that Mr Stadler has called for the action of the judicial authorities in the Causa Riegerbank. I have not noticed the word "Riegerbank" or anything from a request meeting in the first ten minutes, while unflat was poured out here. I have only noticed that, obviously, in conjunction with the President of the House, who is chairing today, the Rules of Procedure will become a way of playing the Freedom Party. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A rich base! That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You haven't listened once again!]] If you, Mr. Stadler, are talking about submission, then it's like the dirt is giving the red a wax. I tell you this very clearly in the Salzkammergut dialect. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have nothing else to add to this whole evil game of the Freemans.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11390	Mr Peter! I would like to draw attention to the most decisive interplay with the President. Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11420	Ladies and gentlemen from the Freedom Party! Your general attacks against justice are making it very difficult today to present legitimate criticism of a system that has become more and more manifest in some areas of justice in recent times – I say so with due thought. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and also of the Liberals! I would, in principle, agree with your criticism that the FPÖ is misusing a request here, and that is obviously true. It is only one thing that I am not allowed to take, Mr Minister of Justice, that it is a criticism, and that it is a legitimate criticism of certain parts of the judiciary. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Criticism and Unflat are two different pairs of shoes!]] – Of course, these are two different things. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP has misused the Rules of Procedure!]] I know how strongly the criticism of justice and justice was by President Fischer at the time, and I also think it is acceptable that there is criticism of justice. But all the more it is permissible, Mr Minister, for party representatives and representatives of the people to practice criticism of justice, if it is the way I could read in the "Small Newspaper" last week, namely that the prosecutor thought he had to practice criticism of a party in a very serious political matter. Minister of Justice! For more than a year, the Greens have repeatedly pointed out the problem of building cartels with documents, with evidence, with documents, with clear suspicions. Justice has been aware of this for months. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For years!]] We of the Greens... [[Abg. May. Stadler: We brought an ad! They put it back!]] I know that for years these moments of suspicion have been repeatedly expressed, and I remember the trial against the former Director-General Talirz, when Mr Khol also gave the defense speech here. What events have happened in this context in this process will be further investigated. But at the time of the trial in Graz, the prosecutor did everything to ensure that this trial was conducted unsuccessfully. The judge already has before the start of the trial proceedings – before the start of the trial! – stated to the public that this was not a thin soup – he quoted Mr. Ofner – but that was not a soup at all. And the Ministry of Justice has given an indication that this process must be carried out. The newspapers were full of political justice. I then made a request, and in this request everything was relativized. But what happens? – With the exception of that prosecutor, who, on the margins of the process and in the process, has always stated in his statements that he has been brought more or less to carry out this process, now has the issue of the building cartels again and informs the public that the Greens have gone to the public too early with the documents, because the construction companies have not been stupid. We know that the Procuratorate already had the documents days before that, but the prosecutor already knows in advance that there is nothing in it. He also says boldly in conversation with the Greens: I don't understand anything about this, the experts will look at it. – Now I ask you: What confidence should I have in a court where the prosecutor does not know himself and the expert takes the assessment? And then I read in the parliamentary response from our Minister of Justice to the Causa Talirz in exactly the same construction matters: "The indictment given in the criminal case against Dr. Heinz Talirz was based both on the suspicion that Dr. Heinz Talirz was giving a contract for the creation of an award calculation as well as on the suspicion of the misuse of the acquisition of basic income costs at the level of approx. 3.6 million schilling." And on top of that: "The objective waste of means of taxation seemed to be as good as determined at the time, the subjective side of action was proved by the statements of witnesses." Now I ask you: What is it, you think, is happening in this process? – The prosecutor has delegated and said that he does not at all understand why something has been done against Mr Talirz, why he has been arrested at all. He doesn't understand all of this at all. I ask you: What have the experts done there?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11489	Deputies! I would ask you to put the final sentence to a close.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11505	The competent experts have fallen into succession, and all the witnesses have turned their backs on the statement. In Palermo, I would make my clear judgment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11546	Mr Wabl! I also hoped that you would come back to the subject in the light of the far-reaching examples. But this was not the case in your remarks. We were a long way from the answer to the question. We should not take this debate as a model for further debate on questions. The debate is closed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The ÖVP should bring in their necessities if it already announces them!]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11576	We shall now proceed to a further short debate. This concerns Mr Kier's request to report to the Constitutional Committee on the application 901/A of Dr Kier and comrades concerning the amendment of the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for victims of National Socialism until 23. ==References== Time limits according to § 57a para. 1 as mentioned earlier. For the reasons given, Mr Dr Kier has the floor. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11603	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The deadline we are applying for today refers to a request whose content would bring a small but important improvement in the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria for the victims of National Socialism. We would use this to repair something that we then decided to do with this law. In fact, we have provided for a ten-year period in this law. For about ten years, a person must have lived in Austria, so that this law can be applied to him if he was a victim of the persecution by the National Socialists in 1938 or later. This period of ten years refers to persons who are not Austrian citizens and was elected because Austrian citizenship law also knows the ten-year period needed to become a citizen. This period is provided for in applicable Austrian citizenship law. After ten years, citizenship is already relatively simple; a legal claim arises after 30 years. That is why we have also written in this law on the National Fund this ten-year period, even with the possibility that it does not necessarily have to be fully fulfilled, but that it must be in about ten years. However, it has now been found that this period is partly not really adequate to the problem, because it has been overlooked at that time that in January 1933 the National Socialists in the then German Empire took power and that therefore in 1933 a wave of refugees also came to Austria; People who believed that if they fled from the German Empire to Austria, they would be safe – they were up to a certain degree – not all, but most of them – but only until March 1938! Although these people were in Austria for five years without interruption, they did not fall into the circle of those affected by our National Fund law. That is why the discussion about this was started over a year ago. As we then looked at it more closely, we noticed the following – I think that would be a reason to agree to this deadline proposal and, subsequently, our request: When we studied Austrian citizenship law, we found that in 1938 – that is, at the date of the foundation here – only a four-year period was provided for in the Austrian legal system for the achievement of citizenship under the Federal Law on German Citizenship of 1925. This corresponds exactly to the time limit which is ten years today. For this reason, we believe that it would be correct and would be contrary to the intentions of the then legislator to base the term of office provided for in 1938 if we were to deal with people who were victims of persecution in 1938 or in the following years; that is, not the present ten-year period. That would be a small step, but a step in the right direction, especially a step towards increased credibility. Because only because our current citizenship law – I am talking about it now – knows harder deadlines than those decided in the First Republic in 1925, we must not project these harder deadlines which we, the Liberal Forum, even today, do not like. I would therefore ask you to agree to this request for a deadline with the claim that there would be an opportunity to carry out this repair before the end of this legislative period. For a long time, this request has been in the House since October last year. The desire to set deadlines is not narrow, it is due to the 23rd century. We have had four weeks today to deal with this in the relevant Constitutional Committee. I would therefore like to ask you to agree to our request for a deadline. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11650	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka is speaking on the floor. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Kier has rightly referred to the fact that, at a meeting of the National Fund not too long ago, we have been talking about this question, since a national fund, which has been active for a number of years and has dealt positively with 25 000 cases so far, of course, has the tendency to raise new problems, so to speak, to show that the rather arbitrary border – I admit, the ten years are a random limit to which we agreed at the time – has created problems. However, I believe, Mr Kier, that we should not break this question over our knees. Because what you have done here is just one of the questions that we will have to discuss in connection with the National Fund and that we will have to decide in the near future. Of course, it is a problem if someone is close to this ten-year period but does not reach it. In the end, the reference to the four-year deadline you are proposing is just a hint that you are basically creating a random limit. I am quite clear to you that this perspective you are showing is important to me, but I believe that we will have to have much more important discussions in another context, for example on the tasks that the National Fund may have to carry out in connection with an awareness of the forced workers. However, this is something that I do not think is yet ready for decision, because it is not the task of the Republic to be the task of the National Fund to give up for companies that are partially obliged to pay. Following the example of the Federal Republic of Germany, it would be useful to wait for these decisions first and that the National Fund, which sees light slowly at the end of the tunnel, will continue to take care of the new tasks, because the end of its activity is foreseeable. We are ready to talk at any time. What affects me a little negative, Mr Kier: I mean, such a question is not a matter of coining political little money. A discussion in this form smells at least a little bit after that. I would ask you to continue the discussion with the collegiality in which we have held the talks in the National Fund and in its institutions so far. There, of course, we are at your disposal for such a dispute.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11714	The next item is the report by Mr Smolle. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11736	Gospod predsednik! Visoki Dom! High house! Mr President. The Liberals have not been and will not be guided by the idea of wanting, so to speak, a cheap debate on a delicate subject. I see this debate as an urgent, ever-needed reminder that, in connection with compensation and compensation legislation, Austria has not taken the path of orienting itself to the victims, but has, first and foremost, made an attempt to keep as low and as low as possible the number of those entitled, the amount of assets to be repaid, and the proportion to be made by the Republic. As we know, this is starting from the first compensation law, which was already decided in connection with the existing legal stock of legal transactions from the Nazi period and which, so to speak, provided a very sloppy way of reporting legal transactions from the Nazi period. At that time, for example, the great uncle of Mr. Haider was very favourable to his wealth and he was able to keep his assets without any problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] That is to say, he has been able to achieve the full benefits of his legal activities from the Nazi era at the time and after the war he has, so to speak, received the resolution for getting things so cheap. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: How do you know that?]] It has been removed from the Treaty all the so-called unattended provisions. Mr Haider's great uncle had committed himself to remanufacturing the population in southern Carinthia. He signed that! He has promised that he will be active in the school sector so that the Slovenian speaking children will soon forget their mother tongue! Ladies and gentlemen! That is what Mr Haider's great uncle has signed. I am not in favour of Sippenhaftung, but in this case, Mr Haider took advantage of this favourable Treaty, which was favourable to the great uncle at that time. Now he is the owner of this property, but we do not know exactly whether he may not get into any tax-calamities – I do not wish him, but it may be that there is a lot of evidence there, which is then a little sad that we have such a fellow Member, ladies and gentlemen! It is all in Freud's sense a bit related to a "pathpsychological" displacement, so that the Austrian has said: I'm innocent, we're innocent, we haven't done anything during the Nazi period! There is – and therefore we have a Historic Commission – no rework of the Austrian share in the debt of the Nazi era, ladies and gentlemen. And in this sense, it is all about correcting precisely all, including the legal measures, and that is what our request is about, namely a fine-tuning, because we note that certain legal provisions exclude certain persons from compensation arbitrarily. That is the aim of this motion and also the idea that guides us if we say that we want this request to be dealt with quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this matter is ready for decision. I am right for Mr Kostelka to say that there is still a lot more to be done, whose solution may be more difficult, but I think that if we can take part and do some of it, we should be able to do so courageously. In this sense, I believe it is important to return to this work, to give the Commission of Historians all the conditions for their work, and in particular to the National Fund – and in this I also go in accordance with colleagues Kostelka – to assign new tasks. Of course, this will also be discussed at the Committee's meetings. I think that the proposal for a deadline is reasonable, is correct, and the proposal itself should be discussed here in plenary as soon as possible so that we can adopt it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11777	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11799	Poštovani gospodin predsednik! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, of course have You are right: Each period of time creates injustices, because anyone who does not fulfil the time limit by just one day does not get into the enjoyment of rights, does not receive the right and feels at least, if not treated unfairly, that they are not treated. Of course it is! And this danger is also known to anyone who proposes a deadline. If your argument against Dr. Kier's request is that you say that we do not want to break this over the knee, because the implementation of the Fund has shown that a new set of deadlines, if it were so short, will bring the same problems, then I can only tell you from my experience as a board member and from many discussions that have also motivated me to make an identical request, that we can only say that, as far as the intention of the National Fund of the Republic of Austria as a whole is concerned, it could be right to keep the deadlines as short as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no claims, there is no right to benefit from the National Fund. That is – and that was a unanimous decision of the National Council – a gesture of the Republic towards the persecuted of National Socialism. Those who observe and know the work of the National Fund know: This decision to put this gesture – late, but still – has come up with enormous positive contradiction. I have once received from Mr President, who is the President of the Fund, a lot of letters from all over the world, from people who have been contacted in connection with the work of the Fund, from letters that have come in response to the management or to the President. It is very moving to read these lines. Therefore, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, it can only be in the sense of this positive original intention, then if the task of the Fund is inclined to the end, so - I say this now untechnically - to be generous as possible. It is an essential difference whether I have to prove a ten-year residence in Austria or just a four-year period as a prerequisite to be able to get into this gesture. What would be effected would not be the elimination of hardships, Mr. Klubobmann, but that the circle of those who come into the enjoyment – it is about money; it is about something that really has a material point in itself – would be bigger. This is the intention of Dr Kier's request, which the Green Group supports, and we therefore support today's request for a deadline. Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka! If you do not want to change political change on this sensitive point with today's deadline debate, then I must answer you: What can be said about the fact that today, in Austria, people are engaged in the exercise of their mandate as politicians and politicians for the persecuted of National Socialism, which is the change of small political money? Never, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, is this – and that is why I was also a little upset at the fact that you said so – to be understood as if you wanted to change political change. It is the honest intention and intention to do something for these people, because the circle of those who come to the delight of this gesture is getting smaller and smaller because they must have lived in Austria before 1938. They are therefore no longer the most recent, that says already the current year! It is at least sixty-six years old, which is the lower limit. That is why I believe that the solution cannot be postponed and that the Constitutional Committee is called upon to be active in whatever framework and in any form. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The National Fund’s board of trustees is carried out. But the legislator is not the board of trustees, but the National Council, and the rules are laid down by the Committee and thus by the plenary. That's why, Dr. Kier: Thank you for your initiative and yes for setting deadlines!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11851	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote and I therefore ask you to take the places. We shall vote on the request by Mr Dr Kier, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 901/A to the Federal Law on the National Fund of the Republic of Austria, for a period of time until 23. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the deadline proposal to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11890	We are resumption of the negotiations on Agenda items 5 and 6. The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11915	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The National Council is now dealing with the 5th. Novelle of the Federal Property Act. The Freedom Party will agree to this government proposal because it will realize a lot of things that we have also represented and called for in the past. The main features of this novel are undoubtedly correct, ladies and gentlemen. This concerns in particular the sale of former natural apartments for sale to the former residents. The creation of housing property is an old freedom of movement which we are constantly pushing forward in the national governments and in the cities in which we make government members. Examples of this in Styria are State Councillor Michael Schmid or – in Graz – Deputy Mayor Peter Weinmeister. However, in order to avoid an irresponsible increase in rents among those who cannot or do not want to buy their apartment, we are submitting additional requests. This has already been done by Mr Schöggl. For it must not be possible for pensioners who have lived in natural apartments for decades, for example, to be scrapped financially by this novelle. This social aspect must also be taken into account in addition to the right economic decision on principle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The cause of concern is a newspaper article from 1997 which was published in the "Kurier". This was about the exploitation of the federal army, and it was noted positively that the real estate had brought 100 million schilling to the federal government. To date, 900 million schillings have been sold as sales proceeds. - That's what's going on there. The commentator commented: "This is a somewhat beautiful representation. It is true that the owner, namely the covenant, concludes a lease agreement with himself over the BIG to rent overcrowded rents. In the case of Rossauer Kaserne, observers say that the rent is made at the double market price and it is recorded as revenue. So seen" – it goes on to say – "one has to question whether it is justified to actually talk about a profit. At any rate, this method is currently being used to draw funds from the budget budgets in favour of the Minister of Finance." – That, ladies and gentlemen, we think is a matter of concern. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is incomprehensible that "employment-related measures" were discussed in connection with the privatisation of the 1,200 units. What is to be employment-relevant is that the Federal Minister of Construction has not explained to us in the Building Committee. It is absolutely unnecessary that members of the government should always be euphemistically alarmed by their factually correct arguments. That is why they also suffer from their credibility in the matter themselves. The fact that the Palais Epstein is being used by Parliament in the future is gratifying and corresponds – as we all know – to the space needed in the offices of this House everywhere. [[Federal Minister Dr. Farnleitner: Not a member of the committee!]] As a historian, I welcome the fact that this does not prevent a museum of contemporary history and tolerance, but only a different location for it. We will therefore vote in favour of this government proposal, and I would ask the representatives of the other parties to support our supplementary proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11962	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e11984	Mr President. High house! As I have been told here that I would not have answered a question in committee, I would like to reply: Deputies! It must be so that you did not listen. They asked a question that had already been asked by your companion, namely after the employment effect of this measure. I have stated in the Committee that we are dispersing sales in the BIG so that sales across all federal buildings can be made in such a way that the personal effect that a part of the Federal Building Administration would then have nothing to do at all and only the other part would have to work will be compensated, because these steps are harmoniously associated with the necessary reform of the Federal Building Administration. So I would ask you not to accuse me of not answering a question. There were enough witnesses who heard that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12017	Thank you, Minister. I call Mr Kurt Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12041	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a few comments on the Federal Property Society and the templates we are working on here today. I should like to say briefly here that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has held a very scientific and constructive debate on all these issues and that we have, in essence, been able to bring about and bring about unanimous decisions on all these points. On this occasion, however, I am allowed both Dr. Kurzmann from the Freedom Party and colleagues Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl from the Freedom Party – because both argued in about the same direction – from my point of view say that the entire construction of the BIG has gone in the direction of making it clear cost awareness in the provision of space for office spaces, universities, schools and so on. Above all, it is a question of not requiring areas, simply without thinking, in dimensions – as was often the case before – in which one does not need them at all, but rather of the rents that now have to be paid, very probably a reference to the area and the costs. I think this is a very important and essential thing in the concept itself. For I was the representative of the Socialist Group, who was involved in the overall construction of this Federal Property Society, and who was already making these considerations at the time. We can see very clearly: In the moment that the resort managers also have to look at the costs, they need much smaller offices and much less space. It is absolutely not that now, according to the example of earlier, funds for science go seamlessly to other departments, as you meant, Mr Schöggl. Instead, it is carefully considered and considered which areas one receives at what prices and at what costs. I think that's in your mind, too. I hope that we will understand this. – This is not a criticism, but a comment from my point of view. Secondly, I would like to make a request to the Federal Minister. All the other points have been discussed for a long time and I do not want to say anything about this; there is unanimity on this. But I still have the request that one now seeks to bring in as many areas as possible of the federal state as possible to the Federal Property Society because of the construction that we have chosen so much that the cost awareness I spoke about earlier is all the more multiplicity. I also mean, above all, that those areas which currently belong to the German army, which are also available for barracks planning and on which one now no longer wants to build barracks, are transferred as quickly as possible to the Federal Property Society to bring these areas to a reasonable exploitation – whether in the direction of housing or in the direction of business settlement, that is, economy, especially in the urban areas. That's why I'm looking. In addition, we can give our support to all the proposals that have been put forward here. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12077	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12098	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Liberals have tabled a motion for a resolution within the Committee designed to prevent future agreements on construction, future agreements with regard to prohibited cartel formation. We have held a long discussion on this in the Committee and also in the public. What happened then? – See: As was not expected, the representatives of the government parties once again said: Well, you do everything you can to prevent such phenomena, such destructive actions by cartel and price drivers. – But they did not support the request of the liberals. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have once again exposed yourself. For both the representatives of SPÖ and the representatives of the ÖVP were not actually presented in the contributions to the debate, which would speak against this request. But yet they said again: This is not necessary, the ministry is always working on it. Mr Federal Minister, you too have argued in this direction. But I don't know anything about it. I do not think it acceptable for you to stand behind a group of experts who are preparing and leaving themselves for a long time. That's a toothless creature! What we need now, Minister of State, is concrete action so that new things do not come back to the surface every day, which are simply embarrassing for the Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The arch ranges from irregularities in the Austrian Federal Railways – there in civil and civil engineering – to the delivery of turbines at higher prices. You know this problem, you're dealing with it. It is not enough, Mr Federal Minister, for you to set up an expert group that meets and meets and plays around one or another, but we do not have a draft in Parliament until today. That is why I think that our proposal makes sense, and it would therefore be desirable for all political groups to join in this motion. First, we want the Federal Government to document all the proceedings pending at the EU Commission concerning alleged infringements of the EU procurement directives, second, a list of all complaints before the Federal Commission on the award of the contract, third, real measures to prevent these price agreements, fourth, a concrete amendment of the Federal Procurement Act – in which the selection criteria for who really is a best bidder are also discussed – and fifthly, we want to intensify a massive antitrust policy so that such construction contracts – construction contracts that are not, because only below will be pushed – no longer exist. Federal Minister! It is not acceptable if you "smooth" through inactivity. The last point of the start was the Vienna Airport once again. It is a pity that the Federal Minister for Justice is not sitting here because he should have listened to it. Please explain to me – perhaps in exchange for the Federal Minister for Justice – how it can be that in 1996 an advertisement of the FPÖ, which was directed against alleged price agreements, was already put by the prosecutor's office after eight weeks of ad acta and that now the Korneuburg prosecutor is finding exactly in the same case! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That would be highly informative in this sense. I would like to ask the Federal Government to finally stop the under-the-Teppich-Kehren and to decide on effective measures.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12160	The next speaker is Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12181	Gospod predsednik! Gospod Minister! Visoki stupid! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Minister! The Liberals welcome this government proposal. It is not only a step in the right direction, but also has weight. The question is that a considerable number of federal apartments are transferred to private property. We believe that this could, as it were, also be an example for the other local authorities. In this sense, you have presented the correct proposal, Mr Federal Minister, and we will vote in favour. It is quite clear that private individuals are much more effective both in the construction and in the care of apartments and can carry out their task much better than public authorities. The sale is expected to go to 60 percent of companies and 40 percent of owners. This is all the same because you once said you were a liberal minister. I can agree that this is at least a small liberal approach. It is a pity that it is a preferred group that benefits them – because it is mostly ladies and gentlemen from the public service – but it is a real step at all. Keywords of societies, ladies and gentlemen: You have found information on the allocation of the application 1013/A in your documents today. This is particularly about the fact that we naturally have to break our heads over it, as we should continue with the non-profit societies. We have tabled a request to that effect, which I would like to make specifically. Indeed, it is not a question of companies recalculating their shares of financing to tenants, but of ensuring that the tenants do not ultimately come to the enjoyment of the house actually acquired, but remain tenants. In this context, I would ask you, Mr Minister, to examine the Liberal request intensively. It is, as I suppose, also on your line that we strengthen the tenants in the direction that they should ultimately become the owners of those apartments they have financed. It is not the case that financing costs are borne under the title "Rites". According to the proposal, it is also important that we restrict or challenge the preference in the event of allocations. That is why I think, Minister, that we may also be able to meet in this context. A very short opinion on Palais Epstein: We are of course in favour of the five-party proposal, because we consider this regulation to be very reasonable. It is clear and very much on the line of the Liberal Forum that we are of course in favour of a "house of new history". I personally have only a little fear of a "house of tolerance" because tolerance should have people. At first, I do not know whether the term "tolerance" in this context is always the right one. Because do I even have to tolerate the others, the fellow human beings? Do I not simply have to accept him as he is and as I myself want to be accepted? It seems that tolerance is a little the gracious, from above: I tolerate, and the lower one is happy to be tolerated. I think this is an unevenness that we should eliminate here at least in the naming. A small sentence on Firlinger's request: This proposal is a collection of good proposals – on the other hand, I do not want to say that they are good proposals in them – and at the same time of unacceptable proposals. This is, for example, an outing of complainants and so on. This is a sloppy and quickly written request, which includes a few reasonable things, but unfortunately God in the effect ultimately goes beyond them. In this sense, we cannot support your request. You could have improved it and brought it today as a motion for a resolution, perhaps we would have taken it along. But it is one of the characteristics of the Freedom Party that it is not enough to learn and not enough to be self-critical. In this sense, we support the first matter and also support the report – because it is a more negative one – of the Committee. We think that this will make a contribution to liberalisation in the area of housing.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12233	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12255	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger! To your remarks and to the accusation to Minister Farnleitner, he would not have been active, one can only say: They did not pay attention to the Committee. The Federal Minister, on your request, has informed the Building Committee of the following: After the incidents of last year, I was encouraged by Federal Minister Farnleitner to set up a working group in which the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Affairs took part. A raw report has now been drawn up, containing a comprehensive package of measures to prevent price agreements and will be available shortly. – The Minister also informed him that he could imagine the establishment of an awarding disaster and a four-year fixation of the building budget in order to enable longer-term planning. Therefore, the accusation of inactivity goes completely empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The main subject of this BIG-law is the sale of another 1,200 properties to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. This can continue the successful path of the sale of federal housing. So far, some 3 300 apartments have been transferred to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft under the BIG Act, which we have adopted in 1994. In order to ensure the continuity of these successful sales, it is necessary to transfer another 1,200 units for sale. It is also intended to ensure the uniform care of the university's properties in Vienna as possible. What are the main criteria for the fitness to transmit these objects? – In the first place, this is once again verifiable without previous acquisitions of ground-booking divisions or the granting of rights, the lowest possible proportion of service and natural housing, or the appropriate management of natural apartments. Employment-related aspects are also included in the Federal Building Management Structure. With the Bundesimmobiliengesetz 1994 we had the intention to achieve a higher economic efficiency as well as the prevention of difficulties in the federal budget law and the federal personnel regulations. The economic success of the BIG is evident and has been confirmed by the Court of Auditors on the occasion of two priority reviews. This was a positive assessment of the activities of the BIG. The fulfilment of the statutory contract for the approximation of real estate management to the circumstances of the private sector also implies that the BIG has the same conditions as private-sector firms. Ladies and gentlemen! A few words about Palais Epstein: I very much welcome the accommodation of parts of Parliament in the Epstein Palace. In this way, the acute space shortage that exists here in this House can be eased by Parliamentarians, but above all by the staff of the House. This will also contribute significantly to improving our working conditions. Finally, I insist: Costs do not fall due to this innovation for the federal government, but it relieves the federal government of it and has revenue in the amount of actually attainable sales revenues. My group will therefore vote in favour of this 5. BIG-Law-Novelle likes to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12307	The next speaker is Mrs Doris Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12328	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are only experiencing the continuation of a very successful sale of properties. This time also a large part of rental apartments is included in it. The aim of this BIG law is to achieve a uniform administration. This is a very positive thing and is also, as has already been pointed out in the remarks, undisputed as to how the decision-making of these additional divestments, which will take place unanimously, will show. The aim was also to achieve an adjustment in this area of administration to the circumstances of the private sector, which, of course, does not oppose. Federal Minister! In this context, I would really ask you, also in addition to Mr Eder's comments, to take into account, in all the criteria for the private sector, of course, the strictest compliance with all law enforcement and home ownership regulations. We can see it as a success that a lot more of apartments have been sold out than originally assumed. The legal provisions are clear. There are no interventions in existing leases. The old Treaties, which were also concluded by the Federal Republic of Germany, apply. I would ask you, in this context, that there be more information to the tenants, what they can expect when housing property is formed, and what costs it entails. There should be more detailed information on the part of the BIG than is used to from the private sector of real estate agents. That would be my request and my request. Just another point: I am very pleased with the additional resolution, because a demand is also the adoption of the Epstein Palace for Parliament's purposes. In this context, there should also be a feasibility study for a "house of tolerance" on the basis of a Council of Ministers decision. I think this is a very important point, because there is the hope that with such a "house of tolerance" and a suitable location we will achieve a clearer approach to the dark sides of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12365	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12386	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First to the Palais Epstein: It is certainly welcome if the working conditions for the Austrian Parliament are finally improved. At the same time, however, I call on the representatives of the government parties and the members of the Federal Government to take seriously the motion for a resolution which we have not made very easily on the part of the Greens, namely on the longer term. We know that the national elections are likely to take place in autumn, and the fate of this resolution is not clear. We do not want the two important projects to be played against each other, namely the improvement of working opportunities for Parliament and the preparation of the Austrian history of war and post-war times. Both projects are important, both have to be realized. The Federal Government must make it credible that it really takes the implementation of a "house of tolerance", a "house of history" seriously. I also assume that, in particular, this issue is not at all capable of playing against one another various concepts that may exist in the government parties. To the Federal Property Society and the BIG Act itself: We are now discussing the 5th. BIG Law Novelle. This is an amazingly high number of novels for a law that concerns an institution that does not exist for long. I think that this should be a little thoughtful with regard to the quality of legislation. We see ourselves for so long on the part of the Greens to cooperate productively in this novelle and in further novels to this law, as long as the Federal Government and the Minister of Economic Affairs abstain from the basis of the decision, which I seriously call for. My colleague Van der Bellen has tabled a motion for a resolution for a long time ago, after all, that the Federal Government should at last report in a comprehensive way on the success or failure of the disbursements carried out. The slender state’s flat-word has become quite unbearable in my ears, as long as there is not a single proof that the exclusions from the labour market service through the waterway facilities to the federal real estate company have really proved themselves. While the Federal Minister now in reply to parliamentary questions implies that the objectives and expectations set by the legislator have been fully fulfilled, I felt it was essential to document this black on white, with a commitment. I would like to be prepared to give faith to the words of a member of the government, but it would be very right for me to get this finally confirmed on the basis of serious data. I have my doubts, Minister of State, whether that is the case. I ask you in every form: Can we have the full text of the Court of Auditors reports on this matter? Are you prepared to make available to this House and all the political groups the full text of the Court of Auditors' reports? Yes or no? Federal Minister! I cannot understand that you do not at least accept in one point the criticism I have made for some time, namely that the federal government takes too much out of a bag to put it in another bag. In fact, you confirm this criticism when you admit that on average, with 7 percent interest per annum is carried out by the BIG. I must say that, compared to current market interest rates, there is a very strong margin for a federal society. This leads to plenty of profits from this company, which in turn are missing in the tenants' cash registers – and these are also mainly public institutions. I do not see any sensible policy on the part of the Republic of Austria in taking away any place more than necessary to give it to the BIG. I think this interest rate level is overly high. I think that's a vengeful and price-driver. I demand in all forms: Please give us the Court of Auditors reports on this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the motion for a resolution by the Liberals concerning building cartels: I would also have expected more initiatives from the members of the Federal Government, especially from the Minister for Economic Affairs, namely a clear list of priorities. With such a five-point programme, such as the Greens have presented, with the priority for public procurement, with the disclosure of all important supply components, including subcontractors, with the creation of an Austrian price register, with criminal provisions for illegal pricing agreements, and with the establishment of investigation committees in those federal states in which the existence of illegal cartels has already been proven, the Federal Government could have gained a great deal of credibility. It seems that everywhere and between the "government partners" I don't want to say at all - "government opponents" seem to have been announced at the moment election campaign rhetoric and that such object-political improvements have somehow come under the wheels. Federal Minister! One of the very last points that I personally love – you know – about the Federal Property Society. The Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft and thus the Republic of Austria still own a property in Vienna 13, Ecke Auhofstraße/Feldmühlgasse. There is clearly the only studio left by Gustav Klimt in Vienna – which can be proved by powerful material. In addition, this area has an imaginable, yes-shattering history. It is an example of a groundless form of arization, which actually began only in 1945. At that time, the legitimate owner had formally recovered her property, but the local authorities had taken care that this robbed, stolen woman had no pleasure in her property. One has her almost as Evil public uses, street use, trassed across this previously arranged land and made it unusable for private use or a private exploitation. This woman remained nothing but the property in Vienna Unter St. Veit, in the most beautiful residential area to sell 50 S per square meter to the Republic of Austria. Now I read in the reports of the Minister for Economic Affairs that we want to abolish public use. – Then the property is of course worth more. The Republic of Austria wants to afford what it has denied to the deprived owner, namely to use a property at the best possible price. Federal Minister! In all forms, I ask you to: Don't take this step! In view of the debate we are currently having on arrogations and forced labour, which is also urgently needed in this country, it would be to the detriment of Austria. To take this step was to continue the injustice of the Arizations to the present and to draw profit from a property the Republic of Austria has come to under dubious circumstances. I call on you to exercise public responsibility for public dedication here and to ensure that a memorial for Gustav Klimt and his circle and a memorial of Arisations in the Federal Capital and in Austria are established on this property.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12460	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12482	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! These two agenda items, which we are discussing under one, are two issues. One is the novelle of the Federal Property Act, and the second is a request concerning suspicion of price agreements in civil and road construction. I think that both points have a common position. Both are more or less concerned with whether and how public procurement is handled. We know that public procurement is of great economic importance and that it also ensures jobs and jobs, of course. However, we are constantly experiencing that, despite legal bases such as a federal procurement law, awarding regulations or awarding standards, criminal activities and price agreements occur again and again, illegal employment is at stake and some sectors of the economy are in difficulty. Thus, most of the businesses complying with the laws suffer from these situations. Mostly, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the High House, unfortunately the only motive for the other businesses is profit. I therefore think that we must constantly check whether the existing laws are sufficient, and it is clear that we can probably never completely rule out a breach of law in the economy. That is why we must make the penalties available in such a way that they take advantage of the economic advantage. In a few weeks, we will also discuss a law on the fight against undeclared work. It will then be necessary to take into account also those provisions which are included in the Government template in connection with the amendment of the Federal Procurement Act. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is important and necessary always to take account of the effects on employment, especially in Austria, when awarding public contracts. I think that, for us, Social Democrats, it is still the top goal of promoting employment and avoiding unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12518	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes. The votes shall be taken separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1640 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill in 1640. – This is decided unanimously. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal at third reading too, to give a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and Group on the transfer of 1 200 federal apartments to the BIG-LV. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and colleagues vote in favour of a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol, Mag. Stadler, Dr. Heide Schmidt, Dr. Madeleine Petrovic on the competition for ideas for a "house of history" or a "house of tolerance". I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give a sign in this regard. The request was adopted unanimously. (E 156.) Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1641. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign. . I note that attention is made by majority decision of the National Council. We have done this part of the agenda. 7. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1431 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Consular Fees Act 1992 (1605 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (1482 of the Supplements): Agreements on economic partnership, political coordination and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other part, and the Annex and Final Act (1606 of the Supplements) 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Johann Ewald Stadler and comrades concerning EU contribution grants (1610 of the supplements) 10. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 561/A (E) by Mr Martina Gredler and Mr Comrades on the extension of the financial resources for the International Criminal Tribunal for Ex-Yugoslavia (1607 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12647	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda. The debate will be held under one direction on these proposals. There is no need for reporting. That is why we can go into the debate at once. Mr Stadler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12678	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Firstly, on behalf of my group, I should like to make the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The background to this request is, among other things, the report presented by the Commission itself under the title of the Anti-Fraud Report, which is the last report from 1997. He reads like a criminal novel, but with happy pieces! Mr Federal Minister, I assume you know this report. You have to know him, because otherwise you would hardly have come to the same results as our liberals, as the assessment of the European Union's gestion would have done. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Vice-Chancellor himself said that there must be a continuous investigation of the cases and that there are fraud and maladministration in the European Commission. The largest sector, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is that of your party friend, the unsuccessful Commissioner Fischler from Tyrol! All of this is actually happening in the European Union, but it has not led President-in-Office Wolfgang Schüssel to take part in the EU Presidency of Austria. Mr Foreign Minister, do not take it badly to me, but you get the impression that you are doing with your announcements like the famous lazy who will be industrious in the evening. In January, you will see that there is a need to do something about this. The whole second half of 1998 you did not notice that it was there – like They themselves say – corruption and mismanagement are there. The Federal Chancellor, your colleague from the "unity party", the actual chairman of the "unity party", is not much better than you, because the German Chancellor's climate only came in January that there is a huge corruption in the European Union, that there is a swamp there and billions of money is wasted there. But he does not, like Mr Vice-Chancellor, demand that these maltreatments be finally eliminated – this is always done well in an Austrian press service – but he is setting up a working group on behalf of the social democratic parties of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! What's that supposed to mean? – Her wife Stenzel nominates someone for a wise council whose main concern was first of all how high the gags are for the members of this wise council! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this is significant for the policy that is being made in the European Union: Announcements, Weisenrat, ineffective instruments! However, nothing happens except that the mafia conditions are not really eliminated. [[Abg. Ellmauer: Do you not confuse this with the Council of Honor of the FPÖ?]] - Please? [[Abg. Ellmauer: Do you not confuse this with the Council of Honor of the FPÖ?]] They wanted to make an intelligent call. [[Abg. Murauer: He did it!]] Your opportunity is lost – he wasn't intelligent! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You and the Federal Chancellor have known for years that there is a lack of economy in the EU. President-in-Office of the Council, Bernhard Friedmann, said already in 1998, during our Presidency, that 56 billion would be managed. But nothing happens. The dark figure is well over 100 billion, so much should have been managed by subsidies fraud in the field of agriculture! To large areas and to large numbers of animals were indicated, agricultural subsidies are depleted, subsidies are sluggish and so on. But nothing is done. And that's why we say: We want a post moratorium! They have all mocked, up to the so-called Liberal Group. Unfortunately, Mr Smolle is not here at the moment, otherwise I would have told him something. You have now actually found a failed Member - a blind chicken will be found now and again - and Mr Strohmayer, who, because he has now obtained his pension right, is leaving the European Parliament... – Do you know, Mr Frühpenpensionist Moser: [[Abg. Müller: The Stadler will make them!]] [[Interlocutors Hans Helmut Moser and Schwarzenberger.]] We'll get rid of the politicians' pensions while you're just sitting in the house, of course, so you can get your political board. That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Strohmayer came up with the idea of reducing the Austrian contribution payments by 15 percent. – Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me, Mrs Gredler, why it's just 15 percent! Why aren't you trying to reduce the contribution payments by 50 percent? Because in view of the billions that disappear there, even 50 percent – we say once, 100 percent – are appropriate, until really something happens. We agree with Bernhard Friedmann: The only language one understands in the European Union is the one to turn to the tap. If there is nothing left to distribute, no corruption can be done with it either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we are – and not just us, but, of course, many Austrians are with us. However, this serves us in the election movement, which I would like to say immediately, as you are a good constituency for us – disappointed that you are not willing to think only about how to reduce Austrian contributions and combat corruption there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] I read that you are saying in Brussels that this whole contribution debate has already been on the nerves of what is being paid into the European Union, the best invested money! – This is horrendous for the taxpayers in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Chancellor, this is Hohn! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This cock is expensive, but it serves the FPÖ! [[Abg. May. Firlinger: It is not his money!]] However, this pang is too expensive for the citizen, and I therefore urge the House to finally think about how we can effectively correct the policy of the European Union through a Njet of the Austrians, by means of a Njet for the further waste of contributions from a net payer country. [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Russian is not an EU language!]] I would therefore ask you today to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12857	The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e12881	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What we have just experienced was once again the idea of how Ewald Stadler works as a liberal wood hammer in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The view that there is no foreign policy to do with the hammer is shared, I believe, all here in this House, except perhaps the very right side. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This wooden hammer builds its house itself while you are in a social apartment with 100 000 S Gage!]] However, we should also consider where there would be an area of use for Mr Stadler at all. I've been thinking about it, but I have to tell you, it doesn't matter to me at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler will not be impressed by this, because he can expect to go home with a certain motto "Mama, the pension hamma!" [[Abg. May. Stadler: 60 people are already waiting for your social apartment!]] That, I think, is your style, which will eventually be quite clear. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me come to the real issue. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You will have an opportunity to talk about pensions!]] There are today a number of opposition requests and two government documents on the agenda. The two government proposals are welcomed by my group, and since there is an opposition request on the subject of war criminals' tribunal, I should like to talk about the current situation in Kosovo and the negotiations that are currently being held in France. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Sit in the social apartment and lead the big quake!]] It has been announced to the public today that these negotiations are obviously a positive end. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We already eliminate the pensions, you don't have to worry!]] We have seen that our Ambassador Petritsch, who as EU special ambassador was very much involved in these negotiations – and also a very concrete success of the Austrian Presidency – has contributed to the fact that an autonomy for Kosovo can obviously be achieved in the future. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 60 people are waiting for your social apartment, which your dad has given you! Dad, the apartment hamma!]] I welcome this on behalf of my group because I believe that this is the only way that can lead to stability and lasting peace in the Balkans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to ask Mr Vice-Chancellor to perhaps mention in this debate the current problems in this regard and to tell us whether what is happening is actually a solution, because these negotiations have been postponed by the Kosovo Albanians for at least two weeks, as one wants to take time to get in this direction with the basis for a common determination and to have a vote. I would be interested in what it looks like from an external point of view. Let me raise another question. As a request on the question of financing the future of the EU has also been made today, I would like to take this opportunity to talk again about the Presidency in the House, because we are moving very quickly to the agenda. [[Call to the liberals: Better not! – Good luck!]] We have held the Presidency of the European Union for six months, and I should like to say once again that these six months were an extraordinary challenge for many in the diplomatic service and, of course, in all the other ministries involved. [[Abg. Meisinger: A demand!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am thinking, for example, of the incredible information that came about, I am thinking of the time pressure for diplomats, but also for all the other employees: It could not simply be laid down the pencil, but it had to be done very valuable work within a short time! [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: Is it otherwise?]] Thirdly, I would like to stress that the logistical challenge was exceptional and was dealt with excellently, and at least on behalf of the ÖVP, I would like to thank all the diplomatic staff and all the staff involved in it very sincerely. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, of course, I would also like to mention that it is now, after the final settlement, that the Austrian Presidency has been economical that the approaches have been taken, and to this end the Minister can be congratulated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] In particular, it should be stressed that the Secretary of State, through her private sponsorship, has extraordinarily driven over 30 million schillings. [[Abg. Dr. Gredler: "Private Sponsoring"?]] – Private sponsoring, not private money, Mrs Gredler, you must listen to me! [[Abg. Dr Gredler: Aha! Sorry!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But you will be allowed to smile, Mr. Spindelegger!]] I would like to underline this, because if we always talk about sparingness, it should also bear very concrete fruit, and in this case it has borne quite concrete fruit! I would like to thank both members of the government for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, let me focus on a subject that seems important to me for the foreign policy future of Austria, which concerns the applicants, our neighbouring countries. I think it is extremely important for the Austrians as a whole to make an effort to "uproot" Slovakia in the first round of the candidate countries, after the democratization shift that took place there, as our Foreign Minister calls it. We don't want to have a "deal gap" in the number of our neighbors and negotiate on two different levels. In addition, I believe that the European Union should set a sign for Slovakia and therefore provide an incentive for this democratisation process to continue to be so positive. – In this sense I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13105	Gear hole keyword: Mrs Gredler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13126	Mr President. Federal Minister! I can assure you, Mr President, that I am fully speaking, I even have my teeth of wisdom. On Mr Spindelegger's "blobs": First of all, does the expression "private sponsoring" seem a little confusing to me, or are companies in the public service regarded as private companies of the Federal Government? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But she does!]] But that would mean a small swing in the assessment of these establishments, and then I really have to say that I am wrong. But if these companies are not owned by the Federal Government, I think you should correct yourself. But there is more, Mr Stadler – and I am glad that you are listening so attentively to me – which I must correct. I would like to start by ventilating ex-Yugoslavia, as the current developments are disturbing, because, despite the current 15-day breathing break, a solution is not very close. In fact, we do not know how to proceed, actually the discussions have been very hardy and, in fact, I think, we must be very careful to see great successes there, even though I give colleagues Spindelegger in a right, namely that the EU Special Ambassador, Dr. Petritsch, has been excellent in these negotiations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Rambouillet failed!]] This has been confirmed to me by some of the international observers, and I am glad that there are such highly professional employees in the foreign office. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the SPÖ, on the Greens and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also have every reason to increase the funds for the International Criminal Tribunal. Why do we have to pick them up? – In 1997, it was calculated that only three charges can be processed by the available means until the end. There's not enough money for translations and for staff, not enough money to track the perpetrators on the spot and make them really hard. It is therefore urgently necessary to push for an international increase in these funds. That is also the meaning and purpose of our request. And I am not content to say that it has been raised here and there a little bit, but this tribunal needs means to make the criminals of Račak, who have 35 dead on the conscience, fall short! There is a lack of instruments and resources for this. We are called on to make a real accusation to criminals who live next door. That is why I would ask the government parties to consider once again whether they are not able to comply with my request. With regard to the claims made on account of EU contributions: Firstly, Mr Stadler, I can assure you quite calmly. Dr. Fresheners are not entitled to pension in the EU. He won't do it either. It's June. The EU pension scheme looks as follows, so that everyone can hear it: It is only after five years that you are entitled to a pension if you have made a contribution to that effect, and you may be entitled to a pension if you have been present as a Member for at least three years. [[Abg. Young: And if you're a mandater!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Mrs Gredler, you have misunderstood me!]] Otherwise, there are no possibilities except one will be disabled during the period of activity. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You didn't understand me!]] The ministerial board, Mr Stadler, would have granted it before the EU. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Eben!]] That has nothing to do with it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're right!]] He would have received it immediately two years ago, and therefore the time has nothing to do with it, but on the contrary. This is even in your sense that he did not retire at the time, but continued to live in active political life, which enabled him to do a lot of good for Austria. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're right!]] But now I come to your request, because your request, which I told you at the time in committee, is a little confusing, and now I notice that an amendment comes from your side, which confuses me even more, and I have to say: It is unfortunate that we cannot meet in this relationship at all. They now recommend that the Federal Government suspend payments as long as there is no corruption and no effective anti-corruption action is taken. Who would it be? – The farmers represented by Mrs Aumayr would meet, because there would be no more money for them. If there are empty cash registers in the EU, there are no more ways of supporting farmers. I would like to hear your colleague, Aumayr, when she speaks here in the House and says: Congratulations! That's what we did well! The EU now has no resources to enable all research projects to enable all education measures and to pay out all the support for farmers! [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a weak argument!]] Whether that's the way you want to go or not, you're left. We believe that this is the wrong way, even though we are meeting with regard to the fight against corruption. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What does the strawmayer say?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Strohmayer says exactly the same!]] Now I come to the point that we see as, so to speak, a financial forwarding. Mr Strohmayer believes we should restructure the funds. What he means is that there are administrative detours in a number of ways – and this is understandable in the Structural Funds – that are not necessary, which do not improve efficiency but worsen. What Mr Strohmayer means and what I mean by my group and my group is that we should highlight these detours and turn them back to the subsidiary level, that is, to the national level, where it is possible, and where it is obviously not really fruitful. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mrs Gredler, the Herbert will read to you what the strawmayer has said!]] The Federal Government is primarily responsible for job creation and not the EU. The Federal Government has the responsibility to combat unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Economy, Mrs Gredler! The economy!]] Yes, but then let the economy live, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Federal Government can only create work for public servants, nothing else!]] Then give the economy air, don't regulate everything, don't put on her constantly tied where it isn't necessary! That would be a good policy, Mr Khol! But They are bound to the economy without interruption, instead of giving it the opportunity to create jobs. That's where I'd put in your place. What Mr Strohmayer wants through his commitment is to contribute to that – which he can certainly do through his expertise – that control in the EU can be made more efficient. A tax advisor, of course, has the opportunity to act in this control function through his knowledge and to act exactly where there has so far been the greatest manco. Federal Minister! I'm not taking you out of duty. You said in the Committee that of the 960 procedures currently open in the UCLAV, i.e. in this anti-fraud unit, about 90 percent are nationally charged. Now I ask you, Minister of State: Why do you actually have Your colleagues in the Council are not forced to carry out these charges in their own countries? Why has there been no activity at all? Why should the European Parliament be involved in fighting, corruption and the Commission's mismanagement? The European Parliament would have wished to have an ally on this matter, and was very sad to have seen nothing of it. We could have really improved a lot of things. A few words to Easter enlargement, because this is the favourite theme of the Freedom Party anyway. I have recently read in an economic newspaper that the cost of Easter enlargement would be itself anyway; but we could discuss it at another time. I believe that if we are more efficient when we get to grips with corruption in the EU, there is enough money for us to be able to finance enlargement without problems. Those who are opposed to the enlargement of the East are actually opposed to improving the economic situation of Austria and against the creation of jobs. That's the right way, I can't imagine!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13354	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13375	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mr Stadler is quite right in describing the maladministrations in the area of the EU. That is what you have to say, and these are things that are not well, these are things that belong to decommissioned ones. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But this is not happening!]] I'll be right there, Mr Stadler. So you're right in showing up, you're not right about throwing everything into a pot. They are different things. There are, for example, incorrect information to obtain more funding. Not all right! There are certain things going on along the way to money. Not all right! And here's the problem of recent times: VET and others among the members of the Commission. All these things belong to combat, but it is likely that different measures and also different laws will be needed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Also with us!]] With us, too, I admit that. But that is why proposals have been made on the legal situation. The Council has made proposals, there have been proposals from the Commission, even proposals to amend national laws, for example in the field of funding. There are concrete things that have happened here. As far as the veterinary industry is concerned, there have been initiatives. For example, our MEPs were one of the fighters for change and against this vet economy. And what is now being prepared on proposals, what climate, Heinz Fischer and others are doing in the framework of the SPE – don't do that! It will be an essential contribution to make it clear, even within the Social Democratic family, that Commissioners who come from parties that are our sister parties: We do not want such a thing to happen, and we do not tolerate such a thing! – This is an attitude we have nationally, but also internationally and at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This distinguishes you from certain Members!]] With your answers, Mr Stadler, I sometimes ask myself the question: Do you actually present your criticism here because you want to eliminate the abuses or because you want to abolish the EU? [[Abg. May. Stadler: No!]] Because sometimes your words – as they do today – sound a mistrust, a lack of European cooperation as a whole. That is why you are not the one whose criticism is really taken seriously in this area, because they ask themselves: What motives are in fact behind it? And your answer: We simply don't pay anything!, it's not one that would really lead to a solution and eliminate the abuses. Yes, it would already eliminate the abuses because the EU would have to be resolved if your path was taken. But that's not the way we want to go. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Better not an EU than a corrupt EU!]] That was the case with your application for funding. That is why we have decided on an amendment in committee. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Better no EU than a corrupt one!]] Of course, it will have to be saved, but not by saying that Austria should simply pay for a certain amount of money, but by stabilizing expenditure within the EU, by sparing, for example in the agricultural sector, whereby I am right to Mr Schwarzböck, who has spoken here today, saying that certain principles must be respected, also for agriculture, that we must consider what we want. We are concerned, for example, with the abolition of quantitative staggering, with continued support for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are concerned with support for environmental issues, social staggering, promotion in the border area, but it should not be the case that most of the people benefit from a promotion that is the greatest, for example, that the English King's House is the best beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies. This is our policy: a reasonable stabilisation to make the EU more sensible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we also welcome measures that are being dealt with under another item on the agenda today, namely the Agreement on Economic Partnership between the EU and its Member States and Mexico. This also serves this purpose. It is important that not with emotions, not just with accusations, but with a clear policy, something is achieved here. As in the Kosovo question – I am glad that the Minister will say something about it – in which I also hope that it will come to a European policy so that not the self-proclaimed world politician of America alone determines what has to be done here. I hope that there will also be a balance: Serbia must be criticized, but also the UčK. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Exactly!]] And I also hope that we do not act unilaterally: in the question of the Balkans and Serbia and Kosovo, and in the question of Turkey and Kurds, it is precisely different because the world politician wants it out of his own interest. There must be principles here, a line, a clear European policy! This helps the EU and its Member States best.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13502	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13524	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on the subject of presidency. I also believe that thanks to the Secretariat of State, to the staff and to Ambassador Lennkh are justified. The costs have been significantly lowered, and this has been the case through a very professional leadership of the Presidency Secretariat. We saved over 100 million schilling from the proposal. I do not think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State has driven up companies, taken over the costs and actually saved us a substantial amount of money. No other presidency, at least in my knowledge, has brought about such a reduction in costs. I thank the responsible one. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Secondly, I do not fully understand why we still have to argue about the Austrian Presidency. I think we did what we could, and that was not little. Finally, everyone else evaluates the quality of the Austrian Presidency. If you read "El Pais" and its evaluation today – to read today and quote it in the "Salzburger Nachrichten"; I do not quote this explicitly, for that could be interpreted as self- praise – then you can see that some places and internationally the evaluation is more open and much fairer than some parts of the opposition. But that's what we've learned to live with. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The European Union – I am also very reluctant to say it again and again, but it is not true by the claims of the liberals –: If it is said again and again that during the Austrian Presidency we would have done nothing, it is simply false. I have already made it clear in the Committee, I have made it clear in the Integration Council, I have made it clear to the Foreign Policy Council. [[Abg. Young: But nothing achieved!]] At the Council level three times, ladies and gentlemen, we have faced the Commission with precisely these accusations. I would therefore like to fully agree with Peter Schieder, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on this matter. I also do not see why the Austrian parties should dispute on this question. No Austrian is involved. We Austrians at all levels - whether the Commission or the European Parliament, whether the Council, wherever it may be - have been committed to a transparent, clean European Union for a lasting, open information. And it is not true by your repeated claims that the Austrians would have slept during the presidency. The fact that we are so far today that the Commission accepts an independent audit body that today there is an investigation by Parliament and the Commission – and I hope that it will soon, in mid-March, be the case date, which will provide results, including the individual errors of individual Commissioners – that there is a wise man who will have the consequences in the longer term, is due to this honest discussion. If you love the Union, you will be criticised, and it will change something for the better, if you want to abolish the Union and ultimately stop payments to citizens by means of a tax strike or a contribution strike, you will love the Union and the idea of Europe that is behind it, not, but he wants to harm it. And we really reject that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Some Members have expressed their wish in the discussion – and I know, of course, before, yesterday – that I should like to make a speech in the context of this discussion on the results of the peace conference in Rambouillet near Paris. I was reluctant yesterday because at the time when some have asked for this publicly, the result is not yet available. It was even possible at this time to really fail this conference, even – I say quite openly – it was likely; even today. If today – and I say this quite without shyness and with no restraint – for the first time 80 pages have been written, signed by the three chief negotiators Wolfgang Petritsch, Boris Majorski and Christopher Hill, this is a document whose way has taken its outcome at the informal Foreign Council in Salzburg, where we have started to discuss a European strategy laboriously. That was a rather difficult thing at the time, because the opinions within the Union and also those of the Americans and Russians were diametrically divided. We then appointed for the first time an EU representative, the Austrian Wolfgang Petritsch. That was our idea, I have been able to enforce it with the other 14 member countries. He has not only fulfilled our expectations, he has overcrowded them, and I thank all those who thanked him for his quality work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] This is one thing that has actually been said on the knife, because one must not sit here in a safe Austrian hort, one must take a little note of the negotiating situation. We had for the first time a negotiating delegation from the Albanians – all groups! – some of which have seen themselves again for the first time after years. The UčK was represented by renowned representatives, Rugova, the president of the Kosovo Albanians, and it was extremely difficult in the first few days that all these people found themselves together. On the other hand, there was a very homogeneous Serbian-Yugoslav delegation, which was de facto remote and had no own pouvoir. And then, of course, there were tensions among the members of the contact group who were very different. The fact that we are as far as we are today is linked to the fact that the Europeans and the Americans have really worked shoulder to shoulder here. This is particularly related to Wolfgang Petritsch and Chris Hill, the tireless day and night, in the last days to 5 o'clock early, the negotiations have led. For me – I say this now without wanting to be too rosy – this document is the basis for a political solution. And there is no alternative to that! There will be no better political document than these three negotiators who have actually completed this document in 14 days. This is a great achievement, because the result is reasonable for the Albanians as well as for the Yugoslavs and Serbs. The Albanians gain something they have dreamed of for years, actually for decades. You gain autonomy, which in the substance is practically as worth as much as your own state, but it is below the level and name of a state: They have one elected president, they have an elected parliament, they get their own security bodies, they get their own education and health system, they get full autonomy over all policies. They are even granted a certain kind of foreign policy, they de facto only have a formal connection with Serbia. [[Abg. Young: Do you really believe that all of this will come?]] No, I am speaking now of the content, Mr deputies, because the question has been raised: What's the result? [[Abg. Young: This is removed from reality!]] Allow me to at least represent what is contained in this document. – At the same time, they win the withdrawal of the Special Police and the Army plus an international military presence. This is an inseparable whole. The Serbs and Yugoslavs, on the other hand, win that the separation, which does not wish independence, is also not contained in the document, they gain the dissolution and disarmament of the UčK, the armed guerrilla army of Kosovo Albanians, and they gain from the international community the prospect of returning to the State community with the signing of the Treaty and depending on its implementation, that sanctions are loosened according to a very precise plan, a kind of D-Day. This is absolutely interesting for both sides. The Saturday crisis has arisen because the Albanians, especially the UčK, understood that the disarmament and the resolution of the UČK is in the document, and obviously the local chiefs have awakened and put their delegation under massive pressure. The Albanians therefore rejected the political part and accepted the military. The Serbs and Yugoslavs have recognized the favor of the hour, accepted the political part and, of course, rejected the military, the implementation part. It then took three days for massive efforts to have two letters from both delegations, where for the first time the following is recorded: The delegation of Kosova with consensus understands that it can sign the Agreement in two weeks after consultations with the people of Kosova, political and military institutions. This means that Kosovo Albanians have for the first time assumed political responsibility to sign this agreement after appropriate consultations, depending on NATO presence. Then there were three letters: The first letter from the Serbs was a disaster. Then there was a second letter, and the third letter was, I think, a reasonable statement, where it is the first time that the Yugoslavia delegation is ready to negotiate about the scope of the international presence, that is, NATO. For the first time! And the Russians who signed – but with the exception of chapters 2 and 7 – have publicly announced that they would participate in a military presence if Belgrade and the Security Council were to end up with this chapter. Now comes the central point: I think we have a reasonable political agreement, a package on the table. I also say quite openly: I think that's very important. For the first time in years, there is a package that has been accepted in the substance of both delegations. And now it is about helping Kosovo Albanians to make this happen to their people. You will also have to advertise, you will have to inform on a broad basis. At the same time, however, the pressure on Milošević must be increased, that the military presence, which is not directed against the Serbs, which also helps to ensure that the Serbs in Kosovo have rights, that they have practically the right to always turn to Serbian institutions – it is a kind of parallel structure which is very complicated but which is accepted by both sides – will be that one works on it. I think hope is alive. But I do not know – and I also want to tell the House honestly – that of course there is also disturbing information. Milutinović, President of Serbia, spoke quite positively in Rambouillet, thanked the negotiators for their commitment, but, coming home, said quite exactly the opposite, namely: That is totally unacceptable! We will never accept a station! Now the question is: Is this spoken differently inside than outside, and ultimately counts the signature on the 15th. March, is it another game? I believe that we have learned our lesson and therefore have the greatest vigilance, especially since we also have information that there are still some concentration of troops along a certain line that has been talking for a long time, between North Kosovo and South Kosovo, so that at all events a kind of division could be considered that would, of course, make this whole package fail. I therefore believe that the following facts are important at the present time: The contact group and the international community have agreed on a political solution model, both delegations have recognised this as a valuable discussion platform. And now we have to do everything we can to use the next three weeks to increase the pressure so that this agreement is signed and that a large, 28 000 men, international military presence in which NATO, the Russians, but also non-NATO members – Sweden, Finns, as well as we – will be able to participate and participate can secure this peace. I think this is the only way to have a bloodbath and a military blow... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Is that chordd?]] Yes, this is chordd in the Federal Government. In this sense, we have already applied for our interest. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Ah, look here! Don't let us fly!]] But again, so that I will not be misunderstood: The core is the previous political agreement between the two parties, which includes all elements – the political and the security part. Therefore: Hope lives, but it is, I believe, a further and rocky path in the next three weeks. I hope that the House welcomes this interim report.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13639	Thank you many times, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13664	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A few comments on your comments, Mr Foreign Minister: However, their hopes and good expectations in honor, the results of the negotiations for Kosovo, which are now being held, are not entirely new, but are in fact available for months. We were also observers at the NATO Parliamentary Conference, and there these results have already been presented to us in the broad outlines as structures of the Treaty and the solution. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Schüssel shakes his head.]] Besides, we've seen what's been worth all this. I hope your optimism is justified. Experiences in the past, however, point to the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen! Also interesting was the fact that you are announcing here that Austria will also participate in a potential NATO troupe in Kosovo. I have read that the Minister of Defence is already preparing for this and that we will be there with wheel tanks – interestingly, with wheel tanks that the Minister of Defence considers not suitable for domestic operations, but they will be sent down to Kosovo. Another interesting aspect is that Austrian soldiers should be sent to this crisis region – apparently this is not a problem in the Federal Government – while, when EU partners want to fly or transport weapons, and that is, Mr Schieder, what the solidarity and idea of the common Europe from a political and security point of view is worrying, suddenly gives no more solidarity and we want to be separate and say that we have nothing to do with it. So if you want to give the EU good tips and say: We must always be a world politician, against which we should at last do something, then let us start with ourselves, and let us finally consider why the US is always acting as a world politician, why the US Foreign Minister must come to Europe to conduct negotiations in Kosovo, why, in truth, there is not even a political consensus within the European Union on how to deal with such conflicts. There is no need to insult the US, but there is a question of reviling Europe and the European Union, and of complaining that there is no consensus and no willingness to do so, and that is where Austria should take a stand, to exercise real solidarity in the political and, above all, in the field of security policy. I don't want to point out any other contradictions at all. I would now like to focus briefly on what Mr Spindelegger has offered here today. He has meant that we are doing freedom of speech with the "wood hammer". We liberals also make foreign policy and, above all, for the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: You don't make any foreign policy at all!]] A foreign policy and a European policy, as you do, that you are demonstrating against yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is really strange to us, and we are proud of that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not act like your farmers' representatives, who agree wherever the European Union is concerned, and who, for example, also make recommendations on the Agenda 2000 that one should agree but go to Brussels afterwards, like Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Schwarzböck, and against the ÖVPler Fischler, against the ÖVPler Molterer, and ultimately against itself, which they have taken the relevant decisions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is your foreign policy, the policy with the "wood hammer"! This will stay with you. Mr Schieder! They have taken advantage of such a policy and statements of words. However, if you ask why the FPÖ is so opposed to the EU and say that we want to destroy it, I must reply to you: By no means do we want to destroy the EU, but on the contrary: We say – and there are other voices that confirm us – that if this project of the European Union is carried on as before, that one does not work together with the citizen for the citizen, but does away with the citizens in any bureaucrats of Europe, this project is condemned to failure in Europe. That says, for example, Friedmann, and that is the line of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Variety: That's what many people say!]] This is not a wood hammer policy, it is a policy for Europe! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want this common Europe, but together with the citizen for the benefit of the citizens, and not in the way that people have been told for years and years that they have to save, that they have to refrain from having to accept savings packages, that they cannot reduce the contribution payments, because there are some nebulous projects. It is our call – also on Austrian foreign policy – to show the Austrians, but also the Europeans that it is important to build on a common peaceful Europe, in all areas, and that it is important to practice solidarity and not to seek niches. But all of this must be done together with the citizen and must not be decided beyond the minds of the citizens. This is free European policy, and I hope that sometime this will also be Austrian European policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13736	The next speaker is Mrs Kammerlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13758	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, this debate today offers the opportunity to address the current situation, just as some of my previous speakers have done, and I would also like to start and start with the current situation regarding Kosovo, or with the results that have now been achieved – one cannot say, results – of the negotiations on Kosovo. I welcome the fact that these negotiations have taken place and that they have led to some sort of outcome. Of course! Of course, it must also be underlined, as many other speakers have done before me – and there is thanks to those who have negotiated here – that this is a bonework. There is no doubt about that at all. However, it has to be said - and I would like to address in a few words the way in which you, Mr Foreign Minister, presented this - that there is no room for great euphoria. If we have heard the expert's assessments in the news yesterday, for example, we can share their opinion in a good part. We believe that, in a desperate act and in a very short period of time, it has been tried to achieve a result. That was a heavy burden on the conversation from the outset. I believe that, if peace talks and dialogue were to be taken seriously, negotiations would have to start or started at a very different time. First of all, it should be equipped with a much larger time horizon and should not be accompanied by media statements by the representatives of the individual representatives, which was very annoying and not necessarily positive in the course of the negotiations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Threats!]] I'm still talking about the threats. – The individual comments, communications and comments were certainly not conducive to the success of the negotiations. Now I come to the point where I believe that peace talks and dialogues of this kind, should they lead to a success, should not be accompanied from the outset by massive military threats, with massive military threats, which, as can be seen from a precise perspective, are hardly feasible. Both sides know this: the Serbian side and the UčK. But that is what the Europeans and all of us know above all also the Americans. If these threats, which have been voiced, were to be made, this would be hardly possible for a variety of reasons and considerations – whether only because of the fact that, of course, the population of the civilian population would be affected and would suffer and suffer the burden, and it would only be because, above all, of any incident and subsequent reactions, above all from the Serbian side, there would be no basis for further peace talks. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's it!]] It will be seen which situation this result will lead to. I do not share your euphoria and the assessment that you, Mr Federal Minister, have, although, I can stress, you must say, of course: What else should one do in such a situation than negotiate? [[Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Mrs. Deputies! What euphoria?]] Euphoria or a very positive attitude sounds not only in your words, but also in various media reports, which, as I would like to say, do not come from somewhere. But I would like to mention something else – something that happened during last week's events regarding Turkey and Kurdistan – your announcement in a "time in the picture" interview, which is that Austria will, of course, take part in any intervention. Your statement "on interventions of any kind" in this interview has not been quite clear to me. As a result, however, I did not have an opportunity to follow it and learn how you might have meant it or how I can understand it. It may not mean that, if we have peace talks on the one hand, we are starting a dialogue and operating on the other with massive military threats, right away, and this as a neutral country: Of course we will. That's our leading duty! One thing is striking: In this conflict – and thus I come to the next current event, to the event concerning Turkey and Kurdistan; this is true in both cases – there is no European foreign policy. There is no basis for any European foreign policy that takes preventive steps at diplomatic level before there is still a very close-out of talks or military threats. The situation in Kosovo and the events relating to Turkey and Kurdistan, with regard to the Kurdish problem, are politically, morally and factually comparable, and I wonder what makes the difference between these two countries as regards the fact that we are now dealing very late, with ten or fifteen years late, with Kosovo's problem and that we have not yet dealt with the problem of former Kurdistan, we must almost say that Turkey's Kurdish-populated territory is already drawing off and that will come to us. What makes the difference is that the highest level of alarm has not now been announced and is expected to say, particularly in the field of European foreign policy: What's going on now? Is there a contact group to prepare and initiate an international peace conference? It is clear that this will not go from today to tomorrow. It is absolutely clear – analogous to Serbia – that Turkey will say: What's the matter with us? That's our state territory? What do you want here at all? We have heard all these answers in the other case too, but in particular the case of Kosovo shows us how urgently it is necessary to act and react at the level of foreign policy and not at the level of security policy, especially not with military threats. Now I come to the current legislation that is being dealt with here today. European foreign policy is required, and it must be strengthened and supported. I come here to talk only with a sentence on the FPÖ's request: It cannot at all be appropriate to open a contribution debate here now. We would rather have to open a debate on the question: What, then, if it makes sense at all to come to an inclusive foreign policy, can this exist, and what can it say? But above all, European human rights policy is also required, not only on the issue of increasing the financial resources for the International Criminal Tribunal, but also on whether we take it seriously if it becomes concrete whether we take it seriously in the case of Kurdistan and Turkey. What are we gonna do? What are you going to do, Mr. Foreign Minister? What did you do when Abdullah Öcalan sat in Italy and tried to obtain political asylum? What did you do? Has there been any attempt on the part of the European Union to reach a single line to reach a decision by saying: We can only solve an international problem together, we can only solve it by pave the way to dialogue and peace talks, but not by trying not to perceive the problem at all, to put the head in the sand!Unknown term type: "%s".? Cynism is perfect when one appeals to a country far away from any democratic structures that have military jurisdiction, which, with its military system, has a state in the state, so if one appeals to such a country, leads to a fair trial. This is not enough for foreign policy activities, Mr Foreign Minister. There's a lot more to that. At least such intense efforts are – if not more – like those now – very late as said! – in the case of Kosovo and Serbia. Human rights policy is required in this case. But if I look at the way in which the proposal has been voted, in which it has only been aimed at increasing contributions to the International Criminal Criminal Tribunal, I am very pessimistic if I try to imagine the reaction or response of this European human rights policy when it comes to the specific problems. Another word on the EU Presidency: They have made human rights policy your focus of the EU Presidency. Then please act now, as long as you are still in the troika, also with the appropriate emphasis when it comes to Turkey when it comes to solving the problem of the Kurds! Now, when it comes to getting political solutions before Europe is faced with a scale and impact of a conflict that will be incomparablely greater than that of Kosovo!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13823	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Karlsson. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13844	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I actually didn't want to talk about the situation of the Kurds. However, Mrs Kammerlander, I would like to address your contribution to the fact that I have the great concern that we are now doing something in a different context, for example, with the Palestinian people, that we are always talking about "the Kurds" and act as if Öcalan were like "the Kurds". It's not him! [[Abg. Young: Your SPÖ party is Öcalan!]] Within the Kurdish population there are political differences in all political oppression. There are different groups and there are movements that have radicalized. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: So what?]] I believe it is important to point out the human rights violations against the Kurds people and to strengthen the pressure in this regard. That our party has always called for this, you cannot deny. We say very well, however, that the question of the fair process – and this is not about appeals or something in the way – is an important one, because every person, whatever he has done, has the right to a free and fair process, as is the case in the European Convention on Human Rights, which Turkey has signed. That is the crucial point. So if we now raise the question and say that all these are "the Kurds", we do not, as I think, a good service to the solution of the problem or to the Kurdish population. However, I would like to make one more comment on the "Stadler principle" with regard to the European Union. He said we shouldn't pay anything. There are certain maladministrations, and that is why we should pay nothing. – I have to say: I have finally come to realize why Mr Meischberger feels innocent. He disagrees with the government's policy, so he put the money in the safe and paid no taxes. That's why he feels innocent! In fact, he has only consistently applied the "Stadler principle", according to the motto: We are dissatisfied, and that is why we pay nothing! [[Abg. Scheibner: The joke of the day!]] - That's what I've come to realize now. But, of course, that's not the solution. Meischberger is very probably a condemned tax evader and remains! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would just like to take a brief look at the requests that have been made here. – Mr Foreign Minister! I would like to thank you for answering my questions from the Committee. However, I would like to point out that I did not ask the third question; but, well, you also answered it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Bad coordinates before the meeting!]] The first question must be misunderstandingd in so far as I am concerned with this whole issue of visas and consular fees – it is gratifying that certain things have now been dealt with – on another aspect – you have answered this on the second question as well – because we cannot use the common policy in Schengen to say this or that we cannot make up and say: All right, and with that we say goodbye to bilateral external relations. - That's what I'm talking about. That is why South Africa has been led, and you have also called the Baltic States. I hope that something reasonable will come out in the Schengen process tomorrow and the day after. Finally, I would just like to say that it would be good for Austria to be involved in the interests of tourism. As long as we still had the visa requirement with our neighbouring countries, we ourselves have always regretted that we cannot have a visit, no tourism and so on. I believe that it is important for the Austrian tourism industry that people can also come to us from outside the EU, from countries with which we traditionally have good relations – without visas and fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13926	The next speaker is Mrs Konrad. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13947	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we decide today to amend the Consular Fees Act, we will take into account the new competences of the Office of Representatives and the Foreign Law. As mentioned above, this law exempts researchers, lecturers and teachers from consular fees. That's nice. But I am particularly pleased that students will also benefit from the exemption in the future if they meet the necessary conditions. My previous speaker has already cut it, and I would like to stress it again: If we not only want to promote the stay of students from EU countries in Austria, but also the stay of other people – people who come from, for example, the countries of the former Eastern bloc or developing countries – if we want to support it accordingly and consider it valuable, then it is only right and reasonable to facilitate their entry at least in order to facilitate the fees. For many people, these charges are not so insignificant at all. 600 S may not be much for many of us – 600 S costs a visual note – but for many people, especially young people, this is a lot of money. In many countries an amount of 600 S corresponds to the cost of living for a whole month. This fee could therefore make a study stay in Austria indispensable from the beginning. I am glad that this fee is now being withdrawn. But there is also a small wormwood drop in this law. I would have liked it, for example, if artists had also found an equally far-reaching arrangement, because we also benefit from it in Austria. Artists, for example, when exhibiting with us, have to go on and off several times. With this in mind, I would have liked a more generous arrangement. However, we must not overlook the political dimension about formal details such as costs and competences. What we urgently need to discuss is, for example, the question: For example, who determines exceptions from the Schengen Agreement's view-marking system? From what points of view are derogations to be granted? . South Africa has already been mentioned, and we have also discussed this in detail in committee. I would also like to thank you, Mr Foreign Minister, for talking about this subject tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in the Schengen Working Group on passenger transport and visas. In any case, the following applies to us: The issue of common point of view must also be discussed in terms of content. An example of what I mean: France, for example, has enforced exceptions to its former colonies, which is a good thing, but also as a small country that has not had colonies, want to facilitate contact with those countries with which we have had friendships for decades, not by the Schengen Agreement and its consequences, but by further facilitating them. Security is certainly not the only and not the exclusive criterion of our relations with people in other countries. It belongs to the competence of our foreign policy and not to the task of the police and the immigration authority to determine relations with other countries. It's supposed to and will stay like that!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e13996	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1431 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at second reading, give their consent to this draft law to give a sign. – That is unanimously decided. This will allow us to make the third reading at once. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the presentation at third reading, to show this by a sign. – The proposal was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Annex and the Final Act in 1482 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give this approval to give a sign on this point. – The National Council granted the approval unanimously. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG that the procurement of the agreement must be decided in all authentic language versions by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This decision has also been adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1610. The Members of Parliament have power to do so. Stadler and comrades have tabled a total amendment, and I will vote on this amendment first. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who have the overall amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades want to agree to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. This application is therefore rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, as it is annexed to the Committee's report, for a sign on this matter. I note that it was adopted by a majority. (E 157.) Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 1607 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. This decision shall be taken by a majority. That concludes this part of the agenda. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Walter Posch, Werner Amon and comrades on measures to combat the genital mutilation of women (1609 of the supplements) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 788/A (E) by Mr Martina Gredler and Mr Comrades on measures to assist girls and women affected by human rights abuse practices concerning mutilation of the female sexual organs (1608 of the Supplements) 13. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Doris Kammerlander and comrades concerning the extension of the Austrian National Initiative Wald – Third World (1611 of the Supplements) 14. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 538/A (E) by Mr Martina Gredler and others on military and arms expenditure in developing countries as a criterion for Austrian development cooperation (1612)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14136	We shall now proceed to items 11 to 14 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate at once. The first speech is by Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14163	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! "In the morning I was brought so that no one could hear my cry." – Thus, Waris Dirie, UNICEF's special ambassador, begins the description of the cruel ritual of genital mutilation, which she subjected to at the age of five. You have to imagine what this woman did! Without even having any idea of what really came to her, she was led to a rock in Somalia, and there she was first removed with a scraped shaving blade and then the sham peaks, and finally the residual skin was pierced with thorns and sewn. After that, she remained connected with fetters, as she herself says, as a slaughtered animal lies in the sun. In addition: She wanted this at that time, and it was her mother who pushed this woman up for her, and which she held during this procedure. Why did she want that? – Men of her tribe had insulted her as unclean, as dirty, as not circumcised, uncircumcision girl. And the women of her tribe had sworn that they should be "pure" so that she might become a husband. Ladies and gentlemen! About 2 million women are estimated to be circumcised annually by UNICEF – around 6,000 per day. In this case, about every fourth girl dies either by bleeding or by ascending infection. Most women become infertile, they have the most massive problems throughout their life: menstruation, sexual intercourse, births, child warfare. Most of those concerned live in Africa, but also in parts of Asia and also in some areas of Turkey. It is said that the roots of this brutal mutilation lie in ancient African rites and in customs of the Pharanian era. They are not embedded in any world religion, they are not mentioned in the Qur'an, but still the Fatwa in Egypt is strengthening many in the faith that the Tahara – that is, circumcision – is an Islamic tradition, and in Egypt the Tahara may even be carried out in state hospitals of doctors. Why? – You really have to listen to the reason for this! The argument of the traditionalists in Egypt is "to control the sexual appetite of our daughters". Only if a daughter loses her libido through genital mutilation will she remain faithful – according to the faith of these men – and, it goes on to say, the sexual desire of the woman would thus be reduced to the desired degree. The myths around the ritual vary, but basically it is only one thing: about the "truth" and about the oppression of the woman and about the really immense presumption of the men, to determine how the women should be and be! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, as long as the status and marriage opportunities of women depend on it, the mothers of the daughters of this ritual will of course continue to support them. But now the problem is not limited only to Africa, Asia or parts of Turkey. There are already about 40 000 mutilated girls in France, and there are currently about 20,000 mutilated girls in Germany. There are already estimates for this in Austria. For Austria it is not safe to say, perhaps it is 1 000, perhaps 2 000 girls; it can only be calculated by approximate estimates. African Emigrants carry out circumcisions in Europe. African families sometimes fly their girls out to have them circumcised in African countries, in their homelands. In France, only this February a 53-year-old African woman was sentenced to eight years in prison for circumcision of 48 girls. Ladies and gentlemen! The closeness of the worlds, the clashing of cultures and, last but not least, the environment of a general conservative current and a fundamentalist military are increasingly confronting us with human rights violations just outside our doorstep. And one thing has to be quite clear to us: that many foreign people cannot or must not understand integration into our state and our society, because cultural influence, religious beliefs and political fanaticism do not allow them to find a free and non-own choice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is our task to inform those concerned. It is also our job to make clear policy guidelines so that only those countries can get financial assistance that really prohibit these human rights violations. And it is our job to ensure in our country that we are informed of known crimes and that criminal proceedings against these most brutal mutilations are also initiated. Misunderstanding cultural liberalism would only lead to an extension of immoderate suffering here. Remember the words and the sentence of Waris Dirie: "No words can describe my pain!"
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14243	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14265	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this debate on this motion for a resolution, which is a very serious debate, can only be described in the context of the drama that comes about for those women, children, who need to have such circumcision, such a necessity. In fact, it can only be true that all the parties in this House naturally agree with this motion for a resolution, which has a very important signal effect. If – Mrs. Dr. Povysil mentioned it – it is thought that two million women each year and a total of between 135 and 137 million women around the world are affected – especially in African states, but not only there – then the extent of this violation of human rights becomes clear. If one argues against this circumcision with the serious infections caused by lack of hygiene, with the deadly complications that can occur at the birth of a child, then that may be important arguments, but all this ultimately reduces to one: that it is a very, very serious human rights violation, that it is a very, very serious discrimination against women due to their sex. That is why this motion for a resolution is particularly important. It is important because it calls on us to step up our efforts in international bodies to take action against these measures. He is important because he points out that in bilateral development cooperation we need to make it more a condition that development aid is linked to measures that prevent such circumcision. It is therefore important because it also expressly refers to the fact that we are more committed within the European Union to the fact that there may be similar links. Last week there was an article in the "Economist", in which the question is asked: Is it crime or culture? Is it a crime or a culture? – In many African states, it is already a legal element that no such circumcision is allowed to happen, and yet it happens. This article also quotes a political scientist named Gerry Mackie from the University of Oxford, who says that criminal law only helps if the majority of the population does not participate in the crimes. In these countries, however, it is in part the case that a majority of the population is actually involved in these crimes, so criminal law alone is probably not enough. That is why point 3 in the resolution is particularly important to me. This is because we need to develop more programmes which have an illustrious effect which makes it clear to the people of the developing countries that such circumcisions must be resisted very massively. The motion for a resolution also points out that, because it is a very massive human rights abuse, we are still going to put in place a request for it today, directives that also have an impact on asylum law. For if we agree that this is a serious human rights violation, it must ultimately have an effect on those people who are fleeing from such human rights violations. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14314	Mrs Gredler is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14335	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon, if you had said that this would have had consequences in Austria, and I would have liked to congratulate you immediately. Unfortunately, I can't do that. I'll also explain why not. "Si-kata" is the Swahili word for "Please, don't cut!". This means an organization that is active worldwide and has made it a task to act against female genital circumcision and to become active in this regard. She defines female genital circumcision by saying she is comparable to castration. – I quote that so that you can imagine what meaning this has for a woman. The roots of this custom are very deep in the religious or traditional realm. The typical age of circumcision is between four and twelve years. There are areas in the world where up to 100 percent of women are circumcised. In Gambia, for example, 100 percent of fula and Sarahuli women are circumcised. That was enough for me to finally bring this issue to the Austrian Parliament. Since 1951, there has been a UN convention that defines female genital circumcision as a serious violation of human rights. There has been an act in England since 1985 called "Prohibition of Female Circumcision Act 1985". Canada granted asylum to a Somali woman in 1993. In 1996, a woman from Togo in the U.S. received asylum after, I think, fighting for 18 months. In 1997, two families were given asylum in Sweden from this point of view. The Australian Government has drawn up guidelines to grant asylum in such cases, which has existed since 1996. And even France, with its currently very restrictive policy, has since 1996 incorporated a corresponding passage in the refugee statute, according to which female genital circumcision is an asylum ground. I deeply regret that it is not possible in the Austrian Parliament to come to a joint resolution in which we define an asylum ground for Austria when we talk about female genital circumcision! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore allow myself to make a request, which was not formulated by me, but by a colleague of the Socialist Group, who obviously could not stand up to the government partner. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that the colleague who has written this and will perhaps also speak today is quite right: We need an internal opportunity before we go to EU level, and not vice versa. There has been a good number of EU countries in this regard. That is why, as I think, it is really high time for us not to shift back to the EU, which is unpleasant. I would also like to say the same about the joint motion on arms expenditure and development policy, which Mr Moser will comment on. I think it is very bad that we are also moving responsibility to the next international level, but I see that we need more negotiations in Austria, and therefore I agree that we are doing so in this proposal. But as far as mutilation of women – a problem that has been shown since 1951 – is concerned, it is really high time to become active in Austria. I would really like you, Mr Federal Minister, to be able to bring your party to agree with this joint amendment, which I have tabled. I would then have no problem at all, Mr Posch and Mr Amon, with your request, which you have tabled after my request, to go along with and withdraw mine. But under the conditions I can now judge them, I am unfortunately not able to do so. A few words on the Liberal Party's amendment. He is generally very welcome. But you can't do one thing: It is not possible to injunctify the allocation of EU funds for financial assistance in developing countries by complying with the ban on genital mutilation, for the reason that some of these funds are used to prevent genital mutilation. When you turn this cock, the women there have no chance at all. I mean, maybe we should reconsider this point. As the request is written, I cannot agree with it, although I have the same assessment: It is a serious violation of human rights, and it is a serious injury to the body. That is why, as I believe, we should really move on to one and the same track in this regard, namely the whole of Parliament. I hope that in the course of this debate I will receive a positive response from the government parties so that I can say that we have finally spent a common matter in this House, so that we can all be pleased that in the future perhaps some more girls will be able to survive, because it dies about every fourth woman who has to undergo such a procedure. Every five minutes a girl will be circumcised in this world! If we could make our contribution to that that would finally be abolished, then that would be very commendable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14425	Mrs Gredler has tabled an amendment which is sufficiently supported and which is included in the negotiations. Mr Gusenbauer has now come to speak with a desired speaking time of 2 minutes. – What amazes you, Mr deputies, the call or the speaking time? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The speaking time! 4 minutes, please!]] You want 4 minutes? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14454	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This item is a summary of a number of highly different materials. Among other things, we are dealing with an application dealing with the relationship between development policy and military expenditure. I consider this proposal to be important in so far as I believe that there is an ever-increasing consensus in the international debate on development cooperation as to which priorities development cooperation should include and which are the main obstacles to a better development in the way of a country. If you look at the World Bank's texts, their new strategic approach, with the conclusions of the United Nations Human Development Report and with the strategy proposals for the 21st World Bank. The OECD's century compares, then it is noticed that, after many errors, the debate has now reached a consensus in recent years. In my opinion, this consensus goes towards a development where the focus is on good governance, that is good government activity, where the focus is on the fight against corruption, and where the aim is to bring out as many people as possible from the poverty trap, to involve as many people as possible in economic life, through very targeted social and health measures. The issue of democracy development is also a crucial prerequisite for the sustainability of development. There is also a consensus on what is an essential obstacle to development in addition to others, namely the fact that a country is involved in a war or civil war or that the expenditure of a national budget for arms and defence is disproportionately high. If we now look at a number of countries with which Austria is also involved in development cooperation, such as Uganda or Ethiopia, to name only two, then we see these are two countries that are very interesting in the context of this proposal. Uganda is about a country that has reduced its arms expenditure over years but has increased again in recent years. The question is: Does this increase in the defence budget benefit from legitimate self-defense interests, or is this not also a combination of strategic, power-political interests in the region? Or to the second country, Ethiopia, which is currently in armed conflict with Eritrea. There, too, the questions arise: What is the distribution of debt? What's the aggression? What is the possibility of a political solution? And does it make sense to operate development aid or development cooperation in a country in the way we do if in the future a larger part of the gross national product and the budget flows into defence or military expenditure? I believe that this is a highly sensitive matter which, of course, must be part of the political dialogue with the partner governments and partner companies concerned. In my view, it is also quite clear that Austria alone could not move much in this context due to the small extent of our bilateral development cooperation. However, if the OECD – and in the OECD, the most important and largest donor countries in the world – could agree on a general basis, on a common political understanding of the conditions under which military expenditure is linked to political measures or to a restriction of development cooperation, that would be, as I believe, a very clear progress in the right direction. That is why the report and the proposal on the request are as they are available to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as parliamentarian Hans Helmut Moser and Mag. Kammerlander.]] A second element, however, which I can no longer carry out in detail, is that, of course, we have to focus development cooperation more on countries with lower incomes, because the poorest of the poor have to be removed from the poverty trap. This does sound natural, but is contrary to the European Union’s previous expenditure practice in development cooperation, according to which much of the money is allocated to countries with a medium income situation. These funds are, of course, allocated primarily on the basis of geostrategic considerations and not on the basis of development policy approaches. One of these countries, for example, is Morocco. In this context, we cannot, of course, miss today's session without dealing with the question of the situation in Western Sahara, where we have long been very hopeful that a referendum will ultimately be able to resolve one of the last open questions of colonialism, but where this process has come to a standstill and the Council of World Security is now obviously trying to bring momentum into the situation one last time. Austria has a particular interest in this case of conflict, not least because Austria is the commander of the troops stationed there and we are also prepared to support any implementation of the referendum with about 200 men in the organization. For this reason, I would also like to put the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This process needs international support if we do not want this peace process to end again in the Western Sahara in a flash of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14548	Mr Gusenbauer has tabled a sufficiently supported motion for a resolution, which is included in the negotiations. Now comes Mrs Mag. Mr Kammerlander with a desired time limit of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14572	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. As my previous speaker said, there are a number of requests which actually fit into the context of a development policy debate and which I also believe belong to, a development policy debate that goes beyond what we normally discuss in this House. Here we are discussing, for example in the subcommittee or recently on the study day, only bilateral development cooperation in the narrower sense. As this is, of course, only a very narrow field, the various Members of this House have repeatedly tabled motions for resolutions in order to be able to better and more comprehensively cover the field of development policy and development policy. I would welcome it if we could hold a debate which is very comprehensive, in the sense that it takes into account the issues involved in development policy, and therefore we would not have to deal with a kind of aid crunch, as was the case with the debate on the Austrian National Initiative Forest – the Third World or the debate on military expenditure linked to the issue of development policy. Why? – Because this can and always light up a narrow spectrum, but does not produce coherence between the different policy areas, but would be necessary in order to really comprehensively discuss developmental policy and then also to adopt appropriate resolutions or to take decisions. A few words on the request concerning military expenditure. It has now come to a compromise, to a joint resolution entirely according to the motto: better than nothing. But I believe that we are already aware that this can only be a first step in this direction and that, of course, in a debate on military expenditure, arms, the Third World and development policy, we must also discuss the sale and trade of small arms, that is small, light weapons, and, of course, also the question of how Austria behaves in such a case. I should just like to point out that a few months ago we had a debate on this when it came to what happened to the light and small weapons that the Austrian Federal Army had been carrying out. Why aren't these weapons being destroyed by us? Why do they come to the international arms market, not only possibly, but also prove exactly in those countries receiving development funds and where development aid projects take place? And we have a wonderful resolution here that we should look at it more closely in the future. This can never be combined, it can never create the desired coherence if we do not wish to have such a debate in full. If we are discussing the use of the Austrian used and exterminated light weapons in this House, this should not lead to a general horror, especially in the coalition series, but it should be obvious that they should be destroyed in the sense of the resolution and not brought to the arms market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They should not be used exactly in those areas where, according to our resolution, we do not want to do so and will also be much more critical in the future. The first successful steps have also been taken in this direction – although in another area, but I would like to mention it – on the question of anti-personnel mines. That's where Austria has proved a model character. So please let us do that when it comes to trading with used light weapons! Let us also put initiatives on this, and let us also show a model on this issue. Only then will we really live up to this resolution and conform to it. I will come to the next subject, on the subject of forest – the Third World. This was a successful initiative of the Austrian Federal Government, which has been evaluated accordingly. Our aim was to continue this successful initiative in certain areas of the environment and development, an area which has a close relationship and in which specific policy areas, which have been much more closely interconnected with certain resolutions. In this case too, there is a compromise according to the motto: Better than nothing. But it's not what we wanted. The existing budget will now focus on promoting projects in line with the idea of this national initiative, at the time. Another sentence. Of course, we lie in our own pocket, if, on the one hand, we take up resolutions that are wonderful in their general, that is, general content, which has appeals – they are appeals to ourselves, to the Federal Government or to whoever – but then, when it becomes concrete, do not put in place the appropriate measures. In this case, a word on the budget figures in development policy and, above all, in bilateral development cooperation. It is, of course, cosmetic if we are satisfied that the funds are not reduced because we know that they are de facto reduced year after year. If it's only a billion or more, this is actually less – the depreciation included – than it is. We can, of course, accept such resolutions as we do today, but we must already see very clearly that the funds have not been increased, but rather are getting smaller and smaller with the general budget decisions. At some point we will also have to ask ourselves what we are actually adopting resolutions if we do not wish to take concrete political action on them. In one case, as has been said, the use of light weapons, in the other case, of concrete initiatives to be taken by Austria. It is intended to show the context. I do not want to discuss or carry out this for a long time, but I think that here is probably everyone in the area of environmental and development, especially in the international field, not only clearly, well-known, but also truly aware. Such resolutions will only be credible if the corresponding steps follow. So on the third topic and an analogy similar to the two others. It is about mutilating women by means of so-called circumcisions in third world countries. In my opinion, there is only one way to oppose, or oppose, political action that is credible, but also to express something. It is in this matter that God has already come to a far greater international critical awareness than before and to a greater attention by countless NGOs, through the work of many NGOs in many areas, through works, publications and information from human rights organisations. Today, I can say, at least in development policy, in political circles, in circles dealing with human rights issues, a clear awareness on this question, that it is an injustice that it is a human rights violation. This, of course, means that women in the countries concerned are beginning to stand up to it, in a variety of ways. The process in France was a start, a good start, a decent beginning. It has proved the courage of a girl to act against his own parents, to declare, and thereby trigger a process that has resulted in the result that the woman who has done this mutilation has been sentenced to a yet high prison sentence. But there are other reactions from affected women: They flee, they flee and try to get asylum in European countries, which they know is a clear awareness at home, that the initiative has almost taken its toll there. It has already been said: There are countries that have taken this into account. Canada was one of the first countries to take this into account. In the meantime, there are also two European countries with Sweden and France who are doing so. And I think it is high time that Austria, too, put an initiative in this direction. If we want to follow all that has been said, what is right, to which nothing is added, which is terrible enough, an actual political act, then today we must decide to initiate everything so that Austria can recognise mutilation, threatening mutilation of women, as an asylum ground and carry this initiative into the EU and bring it into the EU. Only then, if you give your voice to such a resolution now, can you make it credible that you really take this terrible violation of human rights into account. For it does not help to clear up in Europe, to announce horror and to oppose it. It also does nothing – that has already been said – to bind it to the means of development policy, because this is precisely counterproductive. It must also be shown that it is credible by saying: We can recognise this as an asylum ground. It will still be difficult enough. For there are not many women in the countries of the Third World who dare to resist it after all these Enlightenments. If you take the problem seriously, you would have to vote in favour of such a resolution and such an amendment as Mrs Gredler has tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14662	Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Posch with a desired speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14684	Mr President. High house! This motion for a resolution is particularly cruel and humiliating, a particularly serious violation of human rights which affects a total of over 130 million women. Every year 2 million women fall victim to the problem, and the problem has not been an African problem alone. Some 30 000 women are affected each year in France alone. A total of 20 000 women are also affected in Germany, and in Austria the number is estimated at around 1,500 women. For the first time, this awareness also takes into account a declaration by the OAU, namely the 1997 Addis-Abeba Declaration, which also calls for the circumcision to be punished. In some countries, up to 90 percent of women are affected by this circumcision, usually in childhood, with all possible complications and consequences for health, as my previous speakers have already said. As to why this is carried out – Mr Amon has referred to it – whether it is a crime or whether it is culture: I find whatever it is – whether it is an initiation rite, whether it is a mistake, that more hygiene is associated with it, or whether it is about limiting sexual drive or about the social control of men over women or about moral questions – it is a particularly hideous cultural perversion. I do not mean that from the point of view of a European, but I believe that everything must be done to make it clear that it is a particularly serious injury to the body, which fulfils all the offences for criminal prosecution. The most recent case in France is encouraging. There, a woman who had carried out a total of 48 circumcisions was sentenced to eight years in prison, and the parents of the circumcised girls were also sentenced for aid. I believe that there is still a great deal to be done in this regard. Individual countries have already preceded, for example the United States, where there is a law that countries that carry out circumcisions receive difficult money from the World Bank or the IMF. In some countries such as Canada, the USA and Sweden, individual asylum has already been granted in this respect, and in the EU too, there is the positively coordinated Lindeperg report of February, which recognises that every person, in particular every woman who has been victims of systematic sexual persecution in the context of wars or other serious social unrest, or who has justified fear of such persecution, must be recognized as a member of a social group as a refugee within the meaning of the Geneva Agreement. That is to say, gender-specific reasons have been recognised as such in principle once. Therefore, I believe, our present motion for a resolution is a positive signal in order to ensure that there is a legal ban on the genital mutilation of women in the international bodies, that bilateral development cooperation should also be linked to the willingness of the recipient states to combat this ritual effectively, that measures and programmes should also be implemented that are intended to act in an educational and informative manner in the population, and that EU financial assistance for developing countries will also be linked to the legal prohibition of genital mutilation. We are also in favour - my colleague, Mr Jäger, will also make an amendment on this - of the fact that there are directives to deal with the specific situation of women, because women are subject to specific persecution and because there is a specific female refugee situation, and that in the context of these directives the problem of mutilation of the female sexual organs must also be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14730	Mr Dkfm is now on the floor. Holger Bauer with a desired, voluntarily prescribed speaking time of 3 minutes. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Not desirable, but decreed!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to interfere with this peaceful consensus climate, which is expressed in the fundamental rejection of the practices of mutilation of female sexual organs, as they are common in certain cultures. I personally think it is a very difficult to solve, delicate but very serious and important concern. There is a need for a certain degree of sensitivity to proceed properly here. But I would like to tell you another, basic, consideration that you may not like, or that you do not like, all. We will be able to solve the problem – and if I say "we", then I mean Austrians and Europeans – only with – no, "hardness" is not the right expression – if we really want to solve it. Of course, as is now evident in amendments to the coalition – for example presented by Mr Posch here – one can make new laws – well, against which nothing is to be objected – specifically aimed at them. However, if you want to be consistent, you can also apply simple and simple existing laws – I am now talking about Austria – and say: This is a serious injury to the body. A serious injury of the body, when it becomes known, ends with a criminal conviction in Austria. A criminal conviction – and now it comes when you want to be consistent again! – could end with the disfellowshipping of non-Austrian citizens who are responsible for this act. Second consequence: Immigrants, refugees and asylumists should not be preoccupied with this left fiction, with this left utopia, with a multicultural society here, or we wanted this multicultural society, the majority of Austrians, Europeans and Europeans wanted this multicultural society. If one wants to do this and at the same time forbid cultural peculiarities, then one is inconsistency, because multicultural society means respecting the culture of the other – not in his homeland, there we do it anyway, that is not a question at all – multicultural society means ex-definitions that immigrants, refugees and asylumists can practice their cultural characteristics here! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Limitless?]] Then why do you want to ban it, Mr Gusenbauer? Why do you want to go about it? – This is the consequence of multicultural society! You need to think about it. You are an intelligent person, as I know, and you can and, of course, see that. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Are there boundaries of human rights?]] They also stir right away because you see that you don't bring two things completely "for one's", as you say in the dialect. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Human Rights!]] No, you don't bring it "foreenand"! On the one hand, you want to know this multicultural society, but on the other hand you do not want to know about it again. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is there the limit of human rights?]] [[Calls of the Abg. Fuchs.]] I'm just telling you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Of course it is! Now, in any case, all those who live up to this contradiction are already reporting. Yes, thank you for the outing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] That's an interesting field of tension, I know. But, Mrs Fuchs, at least think about whether this is in conjunction with the other. [[Abg. Fuchs: Human rights do not fit into the multicultural society?]] Multicultural society means that a foreign culture is imported and can be practiced here. Of course! I would like to thank the people concerned for their comments. This means – third consequence –: It is necessary to tell the immigrants, the asylum seekers and refugees from the outset and to bring them to the fore: Whoever wants to live with us has to integrate. It has to adapt to our values, adapt to our cultural standards, and not vice versa. And I am very curious about this consequence with certain ladies and gentlemen, who are right today – rightly; so that we don't misunderstand each other – here very much committed, curious.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14878	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14900	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this request has been made. The issue of genital mutilation of women has, in particular, been addressed by the International Women's Movement since the 1970s. I would also like to say to Mr Bauer that there are a number of human rights organisations in the countries concerned, from women who are very opposed to these traditional practices. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a criminal offence, and we can track that with us!]] In the countries of Africa and Arabia, in particular, we are supporting those human rights organisations, those women who take action against these cruel, archaic practices and a social process that leads to a change in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make the following amendment, which is a compromise; we would also like to support a further request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14962	The amendment, which Mrs Jäger has read, has been presented and supported sufficiently. He's on trial. The next speaker is Mr Hans Helmut Moser. Requested time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e14987	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to say a very brief sentence on the comments made by Mr Bauer. Mr Bauer! Dear Holger! That should be clear to you as well: Human rights are universal rights and must be respected by all cultures. The mutilation of women in the Genital area is a serious violation of human rights, and there can therefore be no justification or acceptance of these human rights violations. We must do everything we can to ensure that these cultures are developing and that they accept that these old traditions are at last a thing of the past! [[We welcome the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ Members and the Greens.]] However, I would like to return to the request made by the Liberals during the debate on Austrian development cooperation, namely on military and arms expenditure in the developing countries as criteria for development cooperation. I think it was right for us to have tabled this request because we have started a discussion in which to complement and extend the existing basic principles of Austrian development cooperation. The basic principles – and Mr Gusenbauer has already explained the subject matter accordingly – are that we demand from the countries of the Third World, which we support and which we want to help in sustainable development and in the fight against poverty, that there be good governance there, that democracy be developed, democracy is promoted, that the market economy is developed and that human rights are recognised and accepted – Mr Bauer, here we are again on this issue – and that sustainable development is achieved through the promotion and acceptance of environmental protection. Since it is a fact that arms expenditure in the Third World is the majority of their gross national product generated and is thus lost in sustainable development in the social field, I believe that these expenditures should be taken into account when considering the extent to which funds for development cooperation are to be released. It is clear to me that there is a field of tension: On the one hand, the industrialized countries invest a lot of money in development cooperation, and on the other hand, the Third World countries spend a large part of their resources to run power policy as well. But it is also a source of tension in the way that many industrial nations are supporting the equipment of the Third World countries with weapons accordingly. It would make more sense to invest in development cooperation than to invest in the upgrading of the Third World countries. Another area of tension – Mr Gusenbauer has already mentioned it with the Uganda or Rwanda examples – is that there are also national security interests in the countries of the Third World. It will therefore be necessary to find a favourable means: on the one hand, to accept national security interests and, on the other hand, to prevent over-examination of expenditure on the equipment sector, so as to ensure that funds for education and education are actually available. It makes sense, therefore, that this question is being discussed internationally, that we also come to a solution, to a common procedure in an international context, and that is why we also agreed to amend our motion for a resolution to take action within the OECD framework. I would rather have seen it if we had gone ahead as an example in Austria, but we could still do so. I hope that we will continue the discussion in this direction in the context of Austrian development cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15042	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is now speaking. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Gredler pointed out how important it would be for Parliament to make a common request or to set a common initiative on the abolition of female circumcision. I also believe that this is extremely important, but your request is simply too hesitant, too inefficient, because, ladies and gentlemen, the circumcision of women is based on tradition. This is probably a centuries-long tradition and is carried out largely with the consent of the parents of women. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Listen to what I'm telling you, please! Why don't you try to understand my way of thinking? Every change in consciousness takes decades, and we know how long it takes even in our so-called enlightened society to better enforce women's rights. Do you really want to wait for half a century and see how in certain countries and tribes women are still circumcised? . So, I really do not want this, and I believe that it is really necessary, in view of the cruelty, the humiliation experienced by women there, to exert some pressure on these countries, but also on the people directly to prevent circumcision. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am convinced that there must be sanctions that actually hurt. The cutting-off of financial grants hurts, and this will also lead to a discussion in these countries. As a result of your truly halfhearted resolutions, nothing will happen at all, I am afraid. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The NGOs in those countries in which cropping will also probably discuss differently when the funds for development aid are turned off. My colleague, Mr Scheibner, will put forward a motion for a resolution calling for development aid to be made conditional on the prohibition of female circumcision in the countries concerned. Only then will something happen there, because the pressure will result in a corresponding discussion, but not your half-hearted approach. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would also like to comment on your request, which is intended to provide an asylum ground for those women who are at risk of being circumcised. In my opinion, they disagree with themselves. On the one hand, you say that in some areas 100 percent of women are circumcised, which means that parents agree that women will be circumcised. On the other hand, you say that four to twelve-year-olds will be circumcised, and you also say that one should just stand the escape ground so that those who do not agree can escape and emigrate. I mean, especially those who do not agree with circumcision, could work first by an example to avoid circumcision, and secondly to clarify in society itself how unnecessary, how obsolete and so forth the circumcision is. I believe that this would contribute to the formation of consciousness, but not to the fact that one is standing an asylum ground. Here again you see your forward-looking and superficial tendency to expand the Geneva Convention. This does not at all contribute to the solution to the problem, and we therefore reject this request. It is high time to set up initiatives, but not in the sense that you are presenting them to us today, but as we have stated in our request, and I would ask you to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15140	Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15161	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is of course that we give our assent to this initiative in principle, and it is good and important that Europe and, of course, Austria should also take an initiative to curb this terrible practice. But the question is: Do you then immediately use all the means you have to control these things? Even in the request of Mag. Posch states in the explanatory statement that these problems are increasingly being borne to Europe by immigration. Therefore, the question arises why, if you take note of this – unfortunately, you have to take note of it – then you are content to appeal to the EU in general on initiatives, to do whatever you want to do to the countries concerned, so that something is done against these practices. Why not start, in addition to these important initiatives, in one's own country, and even here creates the awareness that such crimes are crimes, namely serious crimes?- Oh, my God! In the Criminal Code you can read: A deliberate serious injury of the body is punished with a imprisonment of up to ten years. And this is an intentional serious body injury with permanent consequences. So why not make a clear statement to all the Austrian institutions that wherever such a case occurs in Austria, where it becomes known, in particular, where it becomes known to the authority, it will be done with all the power and all the possibilities of the law against these acts? We have not yet heard of any such incidents, although, as I think, in the case of examinations by doctors, especially by school doctors, or also by reports, such things would have to be known by narrations. We therefore tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this could be a comprehensive, clear sign from Parliament that we do not tolerate such things as cultural use, but rather as a serious crime.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15241	The amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner, who has just been read, has been handed over to business regulations, has been sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I don't have a word message anymore. I'll close the debate. A conclusion of the report is not desirable. I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote, which will take place separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1609. Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional request. Deputies Mag. Posch, Amon and comrades have also submitted an additional request. The Scheibner and Comrades have tabled an overall amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the amendment, then on the supplementary proposals and finally on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1609. The Scheibner and Comrades have tabled an overall amendment. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Mr Gredler and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the addition of a new point 5. Whoever is in favour of this supplementary request, may give a sign. – This is the minority. The additional request is rejected. Deputies Mag. Posch, Amon and Comrades have submitted an additional request, which also refers to the addition of a new point 5. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This additional request has been accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report in 1609. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this text to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This text has been adopted by a majority. (E 158.) We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report in 1608. Whoever is for the knowledge, may give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, mostly noted. We are now voting on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1611. Whoever is to give a sign? This resolution has been adopted unanimously. (E 159.) Finally, we shall vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1612. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 160.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr Höchtl, Dr Gredler, Mr Mag. Chamberlanders and comrades on the peace process in Western Sahara. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution has been adopted by a large majority. (E 161.) 15. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (1568 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the School Aid Act 1983 (1585 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15390	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I speak as the first speaker, Mrs Schaffenrath. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15417	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the novelle is to be welcomed on the Student and Student Aid Act. We also consider them to be quite appropriate not only to expand the circle of stakeholders but also to re-adjust the height. This was, of course, urgently necessary from a liberal point of view – the last adjustment was in 1994 – because monetary value development has significantly reduced the number of members and has also reduced the average level of aid. We also consider the new classification classification classification to be quite positive. It is socially sound because the amount of the aid depends on the parents' possible maintenance contributions, so the amount of the aid depends on the income available to that family. We like this idea very much. I recognise in this our family transfer model. I think it is very positive that you now also have this thoughtful access, that it is socially unfair if everyone is given the same thing, whether they need it or not, and that it is also socially not fair to proceed according to the all-or-nothing principle, as unfortunately still happens in many social benefits in the country and also at the federal level. You may wonder why, if I think the whole thing is so positive, I cannot accept this request. I cannot therefore agree because the maintenance of good school success, the achievement of a certain average of grades from our point of view is at least unacceptable. They have raised this average score from 2.8 to 2.9, but this is again a classical decline in mentality "all or nothing". If the student or the student brings a certain performance, he or she also receives social support. If this service is not provided, then there is no support – entirely regardless of whether this family is in a financially difficult situation or not. This, as I believe, unportable linkage of social assistance and one – I would say almost so – cross performance ideology, because it is linked to an average of grades, and for this, according to a system of numbering notes, which is proven to be the most inappropriate, to be objective in reproducing performance, is, in our view, counterproductive. I'm also saying why. Of course, in our school system, benefits are also dependent on the social – i.e. also the financial – conditions in the families. Look You're just looking at the exploding follow-up costs. We are already spending 1.8 billion schilling on this. It is therefore possible, from our point of view, that, for a socially difficult situation, a child cannot reach this average for financial reasons, precisely because, for example, the recovery is expensive. Please consider also the following: Linked to the numbering note system, which is proven to be the most inadequate, notes in teaching objects such as physical exercises, religion, drawing or similar can be decisive, where special gifts may be required. If the child does not reach this average, then the entire aid is lost. That is to say, socially needy people fall through the rust, for them the situation becomes even more difficult, and I actually consider it when it comes to social aid as being despicable and, in fact, as absolutely pointless if we want to support access to schools through student aid. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We therefore tabled the following amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! I very much regret that this novelle with so many positive aspects - I have expressly given it to you - has failed from our point of view, that is, we cannot get our consent, because you simply cannot jump over this ideological shadow of a performance assessment with the help of digits and because the average output provided, this average score average, is decisive for whether socially needy people get this financial support from us or not.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15525	The amendment, which Mrs Schaffenrath has read, has been sufficiently supported, has been properly handed over and is included in the negotiations. Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15550	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that I hear from the Liberals that they no longer value performance, but this attitude is quite possible, I accept it and will in the future simply represent the liberals as anti-performance. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: No value on digits!]] You've documented this. [[Intercom calls at the Liberal Forum.]] In any event, we continue to believe that a person wishing to have such support must also be able to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But clarification is always good because profiles result in different opinions being documented. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the contents of this novelle are concerned, I would just like to mention a few points, such as the extent of the novelle, which is not exactly to be described as small. This innovation increases the overall size of student and home allowances by 25 percent. In my opinion, 25 percent are huge. [[Abg. Schaffenrath: We already have the money in the budget! That's what you've done before!]] That's from the old clothes collection. Of course, you can always taste out, that doesn't bother, but you should recognize that 25 percent means a huge increase. This represents more than the inflation level since the last increase. We want to achieve that there are also more students in this school and home aid. This is likely to be a scale of some 4,000 students who will be able to receive this aid in the future. A total of 559 million schillings will then be available in the school year 1999/2000. I would like to explain, on the basis of an example, how this will actually affect: Let us assume a father with a gross salary of 20,000 s, who is single-earner, employee and married and has two children. One child attends the primary school, the other attends the vocational school. So far, it has received 5 000 S on the basis of these categories, from September of this year, i.e. from September 1999, it will receive 9 000 S. This is a really remarkable increase! We are proud that we have been able to discuss and decide on this together with the large majority in the Committee on Education. I think that if we can actually provide some 34 000 pupils in the future with this student allowance or home aid, then the reason why we have discussed this novelle is why we will decide today that this is indeed an extension, an improvement to which we are very pleased to say yes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15611	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Antoni. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15632	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The positive development of this student aid law has already been addressed by my two previous speakers. In fact, there is an increase in student aid, home aid, travel aid and extraordinary support – and this is for high-level students. The increase has also been made by Mr Höchtl. Around 115 million schillings more are now available for students. The extension of the reference circle from about 30 000 currently to about 34 000 is also to be welcomed. I would also like to mention the amendment tabled by Mr Höchtl, whom we both have tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Education, and which ensures that, in the future, all the amounts of aid calculated will be paid out, including those under 1 000 s, so that the money available actually comes into the hands of those who need it. High house! Despite the improvements that have been made, from a social democratic point of view, there are still some points of pressure which I would like to address here in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! We too believe, for example, that good school success is a certain problem in obtaining aid. It is very common that learning difficulties occur in socially disadvantaged families in children, because perhaps there was too little play material, too little literature, there may be too little use and no PC in the family. That is to say, the child may, for this reason, come to school less well prepared. Now these children are very often bringing positive benefits, managing the school level, getting up to the next school level, but not reaching the required average score of 2.8 percent and losing – that is the problem I have in doing so – the right to aid. In the last year alone, there have been more than 2,000 rejections due to this situation. That is why we need greater social security. It is also a problem for us that the non-retirement of home travel aid is also a problem. It was raised from 1 000 S to 1 200 S. But there is no difference as to whether the student has to travel 50, 200, or even 300 kilometers. In addition, we believe that pupils' allowances should be granted as early as the ninth level of school, because at the same time the re-enactment of a positive primary school degree or a preparation for the career test could be carried out and other things could be solved. That is why we have suggested a committee which has been approved in the Committee on Education. We ask the Federal Minister to have a study on the social situation of pupils. On the basis of the results, we will subsequently discuss aspects of increased social security and target accuracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15684	Mrs Madl has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15706	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Antoni! According to your remarks, I can only say that these were precisely the criticisms that we liberals made at the time in the teaching committee. You could have sat down with us and made a direct request. That was exactly what we said! We could not agree to this request at the time in the Committee on Education, because it had these serious criticisms. At that time I also criticized the difference between the ninth and the tenth years of school, if you can remember, because in the ninth year of school the majority of the expenditure for parents is actually falling, and with the ninth school year actually the vocational training or the direction of vocational training begins. One of our criticisms was also the average score of 2.9, because the Federal Minister says again and again – I have her quote here –: "The expansion of the school increases social justice and improves access to the education system for all." – I emphasize: for everyone! – "Good basic training must not be a question of income in Austria!" - Quote. Mrs. Federal Minister! Now you have to decide. Good basic training must not be a question of income. But they're making them do it! The fact that basic training should not be a question of income is all right, but you attach the aid to an average of 2,8 and 2,9. For me, therefore, the question is either social component or service component. But if you say that the education system should be accessible to all, then you should only link this student allowance to a positive school degree. That should be enough! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Antoni! We agreed in committee at the time. Why have we not formulated a joint proposal, which would now be striking, instead of demanding further studies, which will only be completed in a year and a half and a half, and will cost a lot of money? Why not? – I really want to know. [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: But your request looked quite different!]] - No, that's not true. [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: You have a power stage inside!]] – I said that. If one maintains a service component, then I would also like to see not only particularly good performance, not only excellent performance, as it is now the case, even more rewarded, but also to be rewarded those who fall below the normal cut. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That was my intention. In the meantime, I have calculated this and I have come to realize that this would have entailed a huge administrative burden. That is why I have dropped the idea of an additional proposal or amendment. Look, we'll be smarter, too, but at least we'll admit it! The next thing we criticised on this proposal, as did the colleague of the Socialist Group, was the reduction in the cost of travel. That was exactly the same criticism point. I have said that the one who has so many kilometers to drive gets the same thing as the one who does not have to drive that far. By the way, we are of the opinion - you know very well that we have already done this in the Committee on Family Affairs - that home travel aid should again be introduced in general for all and not only those in need of social assistance, because we want to be equal for all pupils, namely for the equality of the students who live in the city and have the opportunity to attend schools nearby, with those in rural areas which schools do not find in their immediate surroundings, are housed in homes and receive 1 200 s per year, with a substantial increase in travel costs. Mrs Schaffenrath of the Liberals! However, we will nevertheless agree to this law, because, first of all, there is an increase in the index, second of all, creating access for a wider group of students to this student aid, and third, because there is an increase in the additional amount for excellent school success.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15769	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15791	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We too will agree to the amendment request, but not because we are convinced that this has achieved a great deal of success; on the contrary. If we look at the explanations, the supplements, then it becomes clear why this increase and this improvement at all is due to a decline in the number of pupils' aid over the last few years, as well as the number of home aid and combined aid, because the number of beneficiaries of aid has declined, because the level of aid has fallen and, of course, the overall volume of aid in the conclusion has also declined. That's the reason! It has been paid less and less in recent years. This is a way that we know from other types of aid that, if there is no appropriate indexing, the volume is simply falling. Now you can go here and sell it as a big success or as a step forward. That's certainly not it! It is a step that should have been taken long ago. What somewhat irritates me about this template is also an improvement, but it still remains annoying, namely the increase in the average score from 2.8 to 2.9. - Reverse? [[Abg. Dr. Antoni: Reverse!]] No, it's true: from 2.8 to 2.9. Irritating this is: Why is it 2.9? Why not 3.0, 3.1 or 3.2? Why even the average score? – This average score of 2.9 is justified in the draft, and this reason is not only very annoying, but it is a real problem. The average of 2.9 is therefore chosen – in the argument that this is also carried out – so that it is not 3 because in 3 the possible aid yards are balling, and in 3.1 it would be even more. So you take 2.9, which has nothing at all to do with a rationally justified performance component, but you take these 2.9 because it should be as few as possible, but still is an improvement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Mrs. Brinek! Can you explain to me why, while at the lower level, there is a system for ascending and at the upper level there is a system for ascending, as far as your side – not ours – is concerned, that is not our concept – is also the reason why this is useful, but why this does not happen in a corresponding aid scheme? This would be an honest and clean way of solving this: to admit that the student failure in one year cannot be a condition and criterion for access to aid. In fact, this cannot be done, especially if it is combined with social access criteria. On the other hand, it is known that a rather disproportionate share of the social benefits is not, of course, one of the most vulnerable of pupils. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] If you see how you get to this average of 2.9, and you hear this argument, then this scheme will suddenly become very transparent. This is actually the only and most massive reason why we should be against this regulation. Nevertheless, we are not opposed to this regulation, because of course we see this minor improvement. However, we are very much in favour of the Liberal amendment. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to consider next time... – [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: Mr. Oillinger! 25 percent is not minor!]] This is not an improvement of 25 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: But an improvement also in relation to the inflation rate! The 25 percent are more than the inflation rate!]] It's a little better, but it's still not good enough to have it with social criteria and also with the reason for what's important for students, namely a manageable unity. This cannot be the year; it can only be the overall success of learning or the willingness and willingness of students to contribute to a positive school success. I think that if you make your very modest contribution to the fact that you somehow recognise this, with your insufficient rules in the lower level and in the upper level, then this should also be reflected in a corresponding aid scheme. But that's not what it does, and that's unfortunate. Perhaps you will be a bit more able to learn next time, so that we can think of the "rising to the next higher class" at the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15871	The next speaker is Mr Amon. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit.– Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15892	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Much has already been said on the subject, and, basically, this law itself is very welcome. I would like to say to Mr Öllinger: If you make the claim that social weakness must also be automatically spiritually weak, I would ask you to tell us what is the reason for this. There is no current study, no current study, which shows even the sense of an approach to the fact that pupils who come from socially weak conditions automatically provide weak services in school. There's no such thing as that, and that's not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you ask why it has to be the score of 2.9 in order to obtain this aid, then you can say that this is quite simply an attempt to distribute the available resources justly and combined with a certain performance component. The fact that you have a certain problem in the field of performance in education policy is clear to us. Mrs Schaffenrath, who is no longer in the Chamber, has also said in her speech that she considers it a major problem that it is a component of performance assessment and – oh grey! – an assessment according to notes. I ask you how else you would do this if you made a confession to a performance assessment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Of course, you can bring your old demand for verbal assessment back into the meeting. But if you say you want to have a certain performance link, then you will always have to judge the performance somehow. Whether you do this by means of a definition of numbers or a word definition – it will ultimately remain in the process of assessing performance. I would like to say something to Mrs Madl because she meant that good basic training should not be income dependent. I agree, of course, with this opinion, but it has been recognized that today we are not having a discussion on the introduction of school fees which are not available in Austria or on tuition fees, which are not to be thanked to God, but that it is about paying additional aid. So she probably chose the wrong access. It is in Austria God is not dependent on income, for example, on whether a person can attend a school or a university. It is gratifying that there is an extension of the circle of reference. My colleague, Mr Höchtl, has referred to the fact that there is now about 114.5 million schilling to be distributed. This is undoubtedly a positive measure. The fact that at least four political groups in this House will vote in favour of this proposal is probably the most evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15948	Mrs Dunst has now come to speak with a desired speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e15969	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the criticisms, I would like to say quite clearly: This new student aid law is a welcome development. The objectives – namely increasing school and home support, re-regulation of maintenance performance and increasing the average of grades – are a success and, above all, guarantee that more students can benefit from the student allowance, and this is important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also very important to me personally that an even smaller amount, as small as it may be, is at least paid to the parents, because it is not to be seen why they should not get this money. I can only join in what I heard from the previous speakers: The social component is missing, because I too, in some respects, have a lack of justice, but I am convinced that this too will change. Like all other speakers, I am also glad that this committee has been established, and I would like to say briefly: We Socialists have been and are still in favour of ensuring the possibility of access to education for all, and this is at least being expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16011	Mr Stippel has now come to speak, with a speaking time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16033	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said almost everything. There is a positive attitude by my group to the current revision of the school and home aid law, but what is happening on average, also with a critical remark from me, because the regulation with the average of grades is indeed problematic. If we want to honour special achievements, we should also award special grants. For general student aid, it would be appropriate to stress and apply the social components more effectively than before. But one point has not yet been made, which I would like to make in every debate on student aid laws, namely the different tax treatment, and thus the calculation of the basis for the grant of student aid, which leads to self-employed and self-employed persons. I myself have already mentioned the following case here: In the course of my practice as a teacher, I had the case that the son of a customs guard official, who was a preferential student, did not come to the benefit of the scholarship, but the son of an unmediated farmer – it must be said to him – has very well received the highest aid, bought an old, distinguished car and killed a woman with this car – this tragedy is still at the end of it – two weeks later. That is why I also welcome the Committee's statement, Mrs Bundesminister, that you are presenting a study and that we will have the opportunity, on the basis of this study, to have a fundamental discussion of the entire system of student aid. Hopefully, then, we can eliminate those weaknesses that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16073	Mrs Fuchs is now speaking. It's like two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16094	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to sum up briefly those criteria which seem to me to be particularly important in the re-regulation of student aid. As a very positive one, I see the increase in aid and the expansion of the relationship, because I believe that this will significantly improve the possibility of equal opportunities for all – this is an objective that we all strive for. However, I feel that the reference to this aid should still be linked to an average of notes. Although it has been increased by a tenth, it is easier to reach by a few, but it still seems to me to be problematic, because I also believe that a social benefit – as such I do not see the student allowance – should be bound by performance criteria. A complete abolition of these performance criteria would be desirable for us Social Democrats and a logical consequence. Ladies and gentlemen! I think positively, therefore, I have not yet given up the hope that these compromise solutions can be improved soon. The Committee on Education adopted a report unanimously, which has already been quoted today, which says that Ms Gehrer, Minister for Education, will send a study on the social situation of pupils. It will then be possible to develop proposals to improve the system of student aid from those points of view – I hope – which we have already mentioned many times today. That, I think, should be our goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16134	Mr Riepl has now come to speak. Similarly, 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16155	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would also like to focus very briefly on the issue on the agenda. I think that the School Aid Act has the purpose – at least in the explanatory remarks – of reducing social and regional educational barriers. Mr Höchtl, in his contribution to the debate, said he was very happy to agree to this law. I can now no longer announce news, if I say that our group is also in agreement, but we have a little "very much liked" because we have not been able to enforce it in some respects to our coalition partner – I say it quite honestly. Mr Antoni has already referred to these points. He pointed out, among other things, why we consider this average of 2.9 to be incorrect and not in order, and he also mentioned reasons for this. I would just like to make one more comment. I have often experienced in my work as a parent in a school that the teachers have said that we must also consider the possibility of learning the children at home. It is a difference whether they do the job on the kitchen table or in a separate room. It is a difference whether parents are employed or not and therefore not have the opportunity to help in the task or not. One time a professor even said in a middle school at a class parent's night: Don't sign your child out of religious teaching! You may need one more time to achieve a better average of grades! – If these are the only arguments, I think we should think together at the next novel about whether this average value, which is now fixed at 2.9, should not be simply erased. – I ask the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to think about it together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16195	Mr Schwemmlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Similarly, 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16217	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last of the round, I would like to draw attention to an essential area of this legislative innovation, namely special school aid. I believe that the special school allowance is a very important institution, but it concerns particularly those people who want to get to a matura in the second course of education. I am saying this out of a personal distress, since many years ago I myself made the test of maturity in the second course of education. I think that today it is more than sensible and useful to support those people who live in disadvantaged regions where the offer is not so great as to allow them to mature, and to support them financially, even if they can be selected half a year before the examination. This special school allowance guarantees the viability of these people. That is why we will also agree to this revision.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16247	Mrs Gehrer has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16268	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment to the School Aid Act sets out some very important priorities: The aid amounts will be increased by 8 to 10 percent. The income limit is increased by 10 percent. As a result, there is a much larger circle of persons receiving the aid. What has not yet been mentioned: We've made a new, flater rise at the income line – instead of four, there are now five steps. This also indicates an additional increase in aid, particularly in the income sector, between 10 000 and 25 000 S gross. The change in the average score from 2.8 to 2.9 has already led to discussions. However, we have also made an above-average increase in the additional amount for the recognition of benefits for excellent school success. This amount was increased from 3 800 to 4 800 S. I am pleased that a total of 560 million schillings in the 1999 budget are intended for these student grants. That means: We spend over half a billion schillings to support the students in the secondary schools. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The study, which has been reported from the Committee, I think is an important study to give an indication of whether we can achieve our objective of providing as broad a support as possible. However, I would like to make two more comments on the performance discussion. First: Many studies show that especially those students who are not attached to roses do very special things. Secondly, I know that even in all other scholarships in Austria there is a certain requirement for performance – be it for the scholarships for university students, where a certain time limit is set, where examinations are required, be it for the scholarships for the higher education students, where even a certain grade average was introduced as a condition. I believe that with this increase of 25 per cent we are taking a right step, and thank you for all the support that has been given in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16334	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. A conclusion of the report was not required. We are now voting on the draft law, title and receipt in 1568 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1585 of the Supplements. Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. I am therefore going to proceed in such a way that I will first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. The amendment tabled by Mr Schaffenrath and Mr Comrades concerns points 2 and 8. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the parts of the draft law as it stands. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part of the government proposal is largely adopted. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and the title and receipt of the draft Government document, taking into account the amendments to the Committee's report 1585 of the Supplements. Whoever is for it may give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This part is generally accepted. We shall vote at third reading. Whoever is in third reading for this should give a sign. – The draft is – Mr Smolle cannot be persuaded! – was adopted by a majority of the third reading. [[Intervocational calls]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 923/A (E) by Mr Mag. Karl Schweitzer and comrades on reform of the right of employment and remuneration for teachers (1586 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16414	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. Since there has been no oral reporting, we can start the debate immediately. Mr Mag. Schweitzer makes the first contribution to the debate with a four-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16441	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think one thing is undisputed, namely the fact that the right to work and pay for teachers is in need of repair. It would not have required the actionist measures of the teacher union to point this out again. Mrs. Federal Minister! Here, a former chancellor of this Republic would say that there is an acute need for action! We of the opposition, the liberals, have come up with a proposal to this end. He was also adequately discussed. I am not quite clear, Mrs Federal Minister, why there was no willingness by the government parties to approach these proposals at all. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: We have explained this to you very well! You have to listen!]] Mr Höchtl! You can come out and explain why you do not approach these suggestions, whether you have better, and if so, how they look. Our proposals are good, I mean. We say: The salary paid to a teacher so far has nothing to do with performance at all. It contains an age-related increase and nothing else. It can't be in times like this! For this reason, the liberal proposal: The salary is to be made up of a total of three components. There is a basic content, and there must also be biennials, but it must be earned. There is only a biennial jump if you visit compulsory training outside of the schooling time and do it positively. This is supposed to be the prerequisite for a rapture. Secondly, functions are to be paid for. If one conducts an ordination, a Custodiat, or if one does administrative assistance, then there should be an additional function component. Finally, there will be a performance component, which will also pay off the individual benefit in return for the service age principle. This includes the billing of planning, preparation, implementation and follow-up of projects and school events of all kinds, as well as the ongoing exchange of information between teachers and parents or pupils, the care of inclination groups et cetera. In this way, we would remove from the world the recently debated, miserable problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! We are of the opinion that our proposal is good – and it has also been seen in the Committee's deliberations by the government parties – and therefore we do not understand why we have not discussed it in detail and have not worked together with us to draw up a proposal to this end. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You have been told!]] You still have the opportunity to agree to this request today. He didn't get any worse. [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: You have the chance to listen!]] – Thank you for your attention, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16503	Mr Stampler. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16525	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In modern times, teachers are in a very strong field of tension. They are often criticized, but the demands on the profession of teachers are getting bigger daily. That's because of a lot of problems. There are countless wisdoms about what a teacher has to do. The field of tension ranges from the teaching material specified in the curriculum to the parent replacement that some teachers must perceive. The teacher has knowledge to teach that he should be a good teacher, he should fulfill the duties of a psychologist, he should play a doctor and, as has already been said, sometimes be comforters in the last need. It is a constant giving – and unfortunately this professional group is often put in bad light in the public. I claim, however, that most of the teachers are idealistically recruited. They want to do more for the students than they're on paper. Many teachers even have private spending on learning aids and devices. I must therefore reject it if this profession is often evaded in some way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you say about the application?]] Most of the parents are also satisfied with the work of teachers. I would like a survey from the issue of the "Standard" of 2. Citation of December 1998. It says that in Austria everything has a good school system. 27 percent of parents - I am still here - have assessed our school system with "excellent" and 7 percent claim that the school system is "very good", 49 percent judge it with "good" and only 12 percent with "less good". [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What are you saying about the request, Mr Stampler?]] It is gratifying, Mr Schweitzer, that you have thought in your request about the reward of teachers. It is not all right, however, that you want to change party-political change on the back of the teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you mean?]] There are certainly certain differences in the same teaching material. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: (in the direction of Abg. May. As he said!]] For example, there is a difference between official teachers and contract staff. However, I reject it if you claim that the current right of employment and remuneration is anti-performance and anti-mobility. Today, the school is increasingly in motion. Teachers are increasingly required, which also requires rethinking and conversion. There is currently a working group in the Ministry which draws up proposals. So we see, Mr Schweitzer, that work is already being done. I think you should wait for this working group to present a corresponding result. Your application states that the recast of § 61 is unhappy and failed. – I would also like to reject that. It is now the case that the first hour will also be paid as an additional service hour. The school lives by good and committed teachers. They also have a right to a fair and just reward! In my view, the current salary system is differentiated. It already contains quality criteria, functional supplements and correction devices in the form of deposits. The new form of accounting will certainly result in fewer outages in hours. The government has also shown that the educational budget has been constantly increased in recent years because it wants to give young people more opportunities. This is an investment in the future! The implementation of the demand for a departure from the principle of the service age towards a functional and performance-oriented salary can be clearly demonstrated by the age structure of teachers in the Styria. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's a good idea!]] From 1998 to 2000, five teachers have to retire, from 2000 to 2006 243, from 2006 to 2010 824, from 2011 to 2015 1 748 and from 2015 to 2020 2 894 teachers. So you can see: This system will develop itself. Mr Schweitzer! I would like to comment briefly on the three-pillar model you mentioned, on the basic content, on the function component and on the performance component. I must say already that I am surprised that the request was made for the School Community Committee to determine the performance component. One goes into some kind of dependence, and one depends on the extent to which the parents of the school show sympathy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to quote briefly from the magazine "Education Is the Future", which describes the teacher's ideal image for the turn of the millennium. The ideal teacher is compared to a car model of the A-Class with the following equipment: 1. radiant, fresh, vital – comparable to the metallic coating, 2. highly motivated – from 100 hp upwards, 3. preferred new teaching and learning methods – one could compare this with ABS or side impact protection, 4. open learning – on the way to the station, 5. currently informed – new trends follow, 6. presents itself in the serious outfit, 7. spent on weekends and afternoons in school without threatening with the union, 8. tries to get to at least 45 hours a week. In this way, one should really think about the salary of teachers. But I have confidence in the working group and in our minister, and I am eager to see what proposals the working party will make to us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16669	Mrs Schaffenrath is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen. The speaking time available for you and for your club is a total of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16690	I'm not going to use this one. Just three and a half minutes. I would only need three minutes if – excuse me! Say hello to God, Mrs. Minister! – Mr Stampler would not have told so much euphoric about the school system, which simply does not correspond to reality. [[Abg. Großruck: It's really not that bad!]] The claim that additional budget resources are being invested in the education system in order to improve quality is not correct! One invests only in our education system in order to be able to respond to the rising costs due to the existing pay schedule, but not in additional teachers, not in smaller classes and not in an improvement of the educational conditions! Of course, the problem will be settled by itself in ten or 15 years. But how long we can finance these annual increases, how much more meaningful we could do with this money, you have forgotten to mention here. There is already a recent study which clearly shows that our education budget lacks some billion schilling, especially if we want to give a higher priority to life-long learning. Mr Stampler! They talked about the dependence on the School Community Committee. – In this respect, I share your opinion. But it is also to ask how dependent the teachers are today due to the reward system mentioned by you at the schools. Who gets the reward? – The one, the one or the one pleasant to the director, the director! [[Abg. Elliptical wall: Come on!]] I am also pleased that there is now a working group working on a job description, a job description for teachers. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is not only the Minister who is responsible for the fact that we have not yet had what is of course in every economically managed company. Unfortunately, their predecessors have failed. That's what's falling on our heads today. This is also a fact to be discussed. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, yes!]] Mr Schweitzer. I actually did this at the committee meeting. I think your request is in principle good both in the analysis section and in the very concrete measures required. One point is important to me: If we are talking about more justice, more fairness, more motivation and the payback of special benefits, then we should not forget – not to mention that in your request – that primary school teachers and teachers provide the same services, have a word-identical curriculum, teach old students, but are paid differently and have different teaching obligations. Mr Schweitzer. Another point is my concern: One also repeatedly forgets the vocational school teachers, who also have a very responsible and very important task! [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I also do not like the passus, which the School Community Committee may decide on the performance component. However, since a motion for a resolution is basically a basis for discussion and can also be a working paper, we nevertheless agree with that request.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16765	Mr Antoni is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16786	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the meeting of the Committee on Education, we have indicated that we do not, for our part, have any consent to the request of the honourable Member. Although we consider teacher service law, teacher remuneration law and job description to be very up-to-date and important, Schweitzer can do so. I would also like to say very clearly why we believe that this would be counterproductive at the present time. At present, there is an intensive discussion on the redesign of teacher training at various political levels. The training plans relating to other pedagogical professions are also being discussed. Mr Stampler said that there is a working group in the classroom on this subject, namely teacher service law, teacher remuneration and job description. I would also like to point out - and this has also been discussed in the Committee - that we are currently working on harmonising the contributions of school inspectors, directors and teachers to make a single rail visible. To sum up, I believe that the desire that you, Mr Schweitzer, make in this request – the Federal Government is called upon to present to the National Council within three months an independent right of service and remuneration for teachers – is so unfulfilled that an agreement on our part would be called negligent. That is why I can tell my group that we will certainly not vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16822	Mr Grollitsch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16844	Mr President. Mrs Bundesminister, you recently convinced me in a television broadcast of your remarkable spelling skills. Mrs Federal Minister, respect, respect! I would in some cases have been appalled, even without testing the superfluous, unfortunate spelling reform. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Her remarkable spelling skills, Mrs. Federal Minister, are, however, indistinguishable shortcomings in the calculation – I dare to say as a learned mathematician. Teachers' personnel costs bring the budget out of the lot, expenditure on teachers' salaries is 2 billion schilling above the estimate. These are errors of account of more than 3 per cent, Mrs. Federal Minister. They have announced a number of measures aimed at getting these expenditure under control, for example through measures such as Pragmatisation stop, restrictive establishment plan, early retirement, reform of multi-service remuneration and more. How'd that go? – The restrictive establishment plan has led to a further increase in the number of young teachers. The early retirement action was, in other words, a flop, because the average age of our teachers continues to rise. They must bear in mind the following: Ten years ago, half, 56 percent, the teacher was under 35 years old, today the number of more than 40-year-old teachers is beyond 50 percent. I know that education costs money, and I do not want to attack the amount of the educational budget here, but the distribution is not right. Be grateful, Mrs Minister – you too, the previous speakers – but Mr Schweitzer! He was a supplier of ideas, and there was no substantial criticism of his proposals in the Committee. On the contrary! The proposal "School in motion" goes in this direction, which is a very constructive proposal. I admit that the three-month period is difficult to comply with, but I do not understand that the discussion of this problem is only beginning today and now. Mr Antoni, this is a subject that has been with us for decades. The system was unfair 20 years ago. For 15 years it has been said that the biennial jumps are persistent and that the salary of the young teachers must be increased. – This has happened marginally, I know, but Mr Schweitzer's proposal would be a solution to a performance component. I'm not afraid of the councils in the schools. I am rather afraid of a politically motivated and political director and of his kind of assessment. I'm more worried about that! You seem less, Mrs Bundesminister, because on the occasion of the scandal in Styria you have told us again about the media that the proportion in school is quite appropriate. [[Complaints with the liberals]] That's the same way you've expressed yourself. In this respect, however, we are diametrically opposed. I would ask you, Mr Schweitzer, to make the proposals with yours today. No to put completely ad acta. Let at least the usual way of applying for freedom of choice so that, with a certain period of time, our ideas are taken up and implemented by you, rulers from the government parties! We are happy to be available. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16905	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16926	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been stressed several times that the concern expressed by Mr Schweitzer with his request is, of course, honorable. We Greens have also tried to formulate such an honorable concern with our urgent request, which was negotiated a few months ago. The problem we both have is one thing, Mr Schweitzer. The problem is, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have contributed to the fact that, as far as some of the regulations in recent months are concerned, which have also led to the situation described by Mr Stampler, these regulations are actually a cause of the problem. You said in the Committee that Mrs Bundesminister, § 61 of the Wage Law, was neither unhappy nor failed. This indicates the problem, because it is unhappy and failed in this form, regardless of whether one comes to the conclusion – which you have tried to predict to us, but which in turn is disputed on the basis of other sources – that the additional services could be significantly saved. § 61 has failed because he has contributed to an absolute low of mood in schools among teachers, who – I am the opinion of Mr Stampler – of course ask the question: Why are we being beaten in public for our not too simple work? This is a debate, Mr Stampler, which has been brought about precisely by those measures taken at the political level by the government parties; a public debate which in this form neither the teachers nor the students nor the woman Federal Minister, I would even say, deserves, because the latter is certainly not one of those which attacks teachers for their performance in schools frontal. That is true, I also concede, but with the measures that have been taken one has produced exactly the picture that has insidiously and completely counterproductively contributed to the fact that the teachers have been presented as the cause of the evil. You already have to ask yourself the question of what your share of this was. Not only the media have this question to ask themselves. That is what I am dealing with. There are real things included, but there are also wrong things included. Mr Schweitzer, we have already discussed this in committee. It is true, for example, that the finding made at the end of the application, namely that the basis for remuneration is no longer – although it is a little nebulos – primarily only the teaching in the class. The teaching alone is no longer, because teacher activity is already much more important. However, if at the same time it is argued that the salary is to be made up of a basic salary, which, in essence, is based only on teaching, on the preparation and follow-up of teaching, then I must say: There is a mistake in thinking in the application, because what constitutes teacher activity and what is described under the title "performance component" in the request of the liberals should actually be an integral part not only of the basic quality but also of the basic understanding of teacher. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Is it too!]] – That’s it too! That's why there's a mistake in thinking. The second point – and I am again in the criticism of the government parties – is, of course, the three-month requirement. – Mrs Federal Minister, we would like to see what is now obviously being discussed in some kind of working group and being negotiated according to any principles, at least in the principles made public. It is only in this way that we come out of the dilemma that the government parties have instilled in the teachers and the debate on education in that country, namely that no one can see any more where the cause and the evil and the consequences are drawn from it. We therefore not only agree with the request made by the Liberals because we consider some of its points to be problematic, but also very unhappy that there is a regime that has contributed a great deal in the present form to the deterioration of the climate in schools and is currently not recognizable in what direction and by what measures this climate should improve in schools.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16962	Mr Rada is also speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e16983	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I can also remember that reforming the right of employment and remuneration for a working group as large as that of teachers is a very sensitive matter and cannot therefore be completed in a form which corresponds to the new demands and also to the proposed intentions of flexibility and mobility. I am of the opinion – and I hope that all the previous speakers have understood this too – that the new right of remuneration to be discussed should bring about an improvement in the state of teaching and the remuneration of the working or teaching teachers. It has already been listed today, which this professional group is increasingly being added to by society. However, I still have two points to make which, in my view, seem to me not to be taken into account in the discussion. In many areas we have built up a supplemental jungle, which improves the salary somewhat, but in the end does not do much under the rule of old age, because it is not pensionable. Performance-oriented specifications were required. I would remind you that most of our teachers are already highly qualified, because about three-quarters of our teachers have the highest rating. So you are already highly qualified, and it will be very difficult to assign you a corresponding performance-oriented salary. Finally, I would like to point out that it is necessary to clarify that teachers who teach under the same curriculum are not paid differently. I am thinking mainly of the teachers in the AHS sub-level and those in the primary school.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17020	Mrs Gehrer has been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17041	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary to make some corrections. It is not true that there have been no improvements in education. – In addition to the numerous progress made in the field of education and autonomy, all federal schools are connected to the Internet in Austria. Recently, German Chancellor Schröder said that it was his great goal to connect all schools in Germany to the Internet. We have already achieved this in Austria. All federal schools have been connected to the Internet with great effort. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is not true that there have been no improvements in the posts. We have increased our posts by 500 within two years in order to give more young people the possibility of further training. Nor is it true that the budget is exceeded to that extent, as is written in some newspapers. Although there are excesses, they arise because we make more educational opportunities and have more posts of service, for which the government, the coalition, acknowledges, because education is worth us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, it is not true that the latest changes to § 61 have failed. We have introduced a new performance-oriented component, and every overtime that will be held will also be paid. We have automated the entire billing over the Internet. All teachers have already been paid the money for the overtime done, and two thirds of the schools have even taken the overtime done in January of this year. This has never been the case at all, namely that individual additional services have been billed so quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also not true that I have said that I consider the proportion to be appropriate in schools. I think the proportion in schools is wrong. What I have clearly and clearly said is that I think it is right that national school councils and colleges of the national school councils should be composed on the basis of the results of the country elections and that the school should be supported and borne by the parties represented in the Landtag. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is true, however, that there are working groups that are targeted at redesigning the right of employment and remuneration. The State Secretariat is responsible for redefining the right to serve and pay. We therefore have a mixed project group. In a first phase, the achievements of teachers will be developed. I believe that we must first agree on what is part of normal working time, which belongs to those 1 793 hours a teacher works each year. In a second step, international comparisons will be drawn up, and in a third step proposals will be drawn up on how we can achieve easier handling of the system, in which the performance orientation will still be maintained. This work for 120,000 colleagues is very comprehensive, and I believe that it is our teachers who deserve it because of their daily performance at school, that we are doing very carefully, that we examine very carefully, and then we decide together on a good new right of service and remuneration.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17114	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. There is no conclusion from the rapporteur. We are now entering the voting procedure. - I ask you to take the seats. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1586 of the supplements. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the majority. The report has been adopted. 17. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (1556 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Youth Welfare Act 1989 – JWG (Youth Welfare Act Novelle 1998) (1619 of the Supplements) 18. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 382/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the establishment of a central emergency service to prevent child abuse (1620 of the supplements) 19. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 870/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the introduction of child care checks (1621 of the supplements) 20. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 871/A (E) by Mr Edith Haller and Mr Comrades on the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus (1622 of the supplements) 21. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 926/A (E) by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayr and others on home travel aid for pupils and apprentices (1623 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17216	I now call points 17 to 21 of the agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Haller was the first speaker to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! At the end of the agenda, excluding the public and the media, agenda items will now be put to the negotiation which concerns families. This does not correspond at all to the value that both government parties have given to the area of family policy in recent times, especially through the media. That means to me: Preaching water and drinking wine. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This allegation refers not only to the drafting of the agenda, but also to the planned amendment of the Youth Welfare Act, Mr Federal Minister, which we believe is not worth the paper on which it is written, and in no way to the intentions of the joint motion for a resolution of all the parliamentary parties of the 19th century. In September 1996, it was even mentioned in the Preamble to this Youth Welfare Act. It does not, of course, correspond to the intentions of the 382/A (E) freedom application, in which a central reporting office is planned for the youth welfare service, especially in the direction of prevention of child abuse. That was a chance. From a reporting point has become a hiding place in which the perpetrator disappears somewhere in the sinking and is actually only stored in sacrifice-related data. It will even prevent such data from being stored longer for possible prevention. There is no link between the perpetrators and several victims. It will also prevent a report from being returned to the criminal courts. It can only be refunded in the case of court proceedings, and only in the event of a recurrence. Mrs Mertel described this in an awfully cynical way in the Committee: The first bite remains free! So only if there's a risk of repetition... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Dolinschek said that!]] No, you have said that, Mrs Mertel, and I have still believed that this is not wanted. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Always me!]] But it's very much wanted. It is also desirable that the responsibility for reporting should not be left to the youth welfare service itself, but that it should be transferred to the social workers. That's what I'm talking about. In this amendment, it is absolutely desired that the protection of victims should not be improved – contrary to the media announcements made by you, Mr. Federal Minister – and that even criminal justice should be prevented. All of this reminds me completely of what is to be decided here tomorrow, namely the enormous and almost immense extension of the extrajudicial settlement. I have to say, Minister of State: I am always surprised that you and your ÖVP are subordinated to left ideology in all areas! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We will agree with the Liberal amendment because it would bring concreteisations in at least a few areas. The remaining points to be discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which concern all the requests made by the liberals, such as the introduction of the child-care check, the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus – not for the first time but for the rest of the time – and the re-introduction of home travel aid, which has already been announced by you, Mr Federal Minister, were, of course, rejected, and should now be deliberately and deliberately negotiated with the exclusion of the public and the media. However, they will be further explained by my colleagues to ensure that they are at least in the Minutes. We will again and again point to this dual nature which you will recognize in the family sector.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17304	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Moser-Starrach. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's Youth Welfare Act is evident throughout Europe. We are proud of this law and, above all, the associated institutions. This amendment was followed by two orders of the year 1996, namely first, to evaluate results and to examine the social conditions, and second, to create a central reporting point for minor injuries and the corresponding data protection safeguards of such reports. This novelle is now in place and has three main priorities: the professionalization of young people, the extension of the provision of social services and the breaking-up of the obligation of confidentiality in the event that child welfare is at risk. I would like to highlight three paragraphs in particular. According to § 2 the first notification and central reporting point is at the Residenzjugendamt. This is a decisive improvement and inhibits "doctor shopping" and "hospital hopping". The data must be collected and checked personally and the countries networked them. Inaccurate data must be deleted without delay. It is also a matter of trust and not a matter of secrecy, as we have just heard in the previous speech. [[Abg. Haller: Something else was wanted!]] On § 12 it is to be said: 1.5 percent of children – at least more than 26,000 children – have become too short and disadvantaged in their families. They must not be left in the rain again. Public youth welfare must therefore be carried out by trained forces, and these must in turn be supported by further training and supervision. Of course, we should also be able to use additional powers if it is necessary and the scope of the activities needs to be expanded. Furthermore, all offers by which children can be promoted and thus serve the well-being of children should be offered so low that the provision of educational assistance is really guaranteed. Social services such as parental training, educational advice, prevention against any violence – physically, psychologically and sexually – are offered in particular. I would like to thank all those who seek good structures and offers, above all the other, for the family ministry, which, after good, quick examination, provides financial support. Thanks also to the countries and the economic institutions that help when it comes to the welfare of our children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to mention treatment and prevention offers especially for young people and their families, but also low-level services, such as street workers and emergency shelters. It is also particularly important to highlight the work of care families, social-pedagogical housing communities and children's villages, which offer our children refuge, love and security. We also create optional pension provision for these nursing parents. The national legislation has already provided that caregivers who are related to the third degree can obtain compensation up to the amount of the care allowance. Some comments on § 21, on day care: To ensure that the infant is accommodated in trained day mothers or fathers or later in kindergartens, day care is far from exhausted. Children also need the accompanying and protective hands in school after school. In the Youth Welfare Act, we have made every effort to ensure that institutionalised and individual care can be given to suitable persons in suitable premises. The youth welfare fund is also responsible for the supervision of day care and care and education of minors in care families until the completion of the 21st century. Year of life, if necessary to ensure the success of previous educational aids. I would like to thank once again all those who have contributed to the fact that this novelle, which took place on 1st November, was the subject of a series of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is expected to enter into force on 1 July 1999. We, the ÖVP, will be happy to agree with this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17367	Mr Kier. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Rest of the time of your club: 11 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17388	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Time is fasting, but youth welfare is making little progress – but at least low. What I have to criticise on this bill are a few essential aspects from my point of view: The government template states – and this is a cause for concern – that no direct cost will be incurred by the federal government and the countries. This is why I am concerned – I would normally say yes, I am happy if no costs arise – because at the same time there are announcements in front of the Matters Act itself, which can only be fulfilled if you buy costs, especially as regards higher professionalization and so on. In my opinion, therefore, a false cotau in front of the countries is to be written into a government template, which is not expected to cost, because the costs would then be incurred by the countries. As far as the vague definition of qualifications is concerned, I think that it was immediately criticised even more stringent and logical, because it shows that you do not really want to qualify better, and if you do not want to, you can also say that it will cost nothing. So that's very revealing. As far as these passages are concerned, they are, unfortunately, rather a law which serves to improve the situation, but not to improve it. But that's a shame, because youth welfare is really very important. This becomes particularly clear in the field of daily parents. Hiezu, there is a report to the National Council on the development of a federal uniform professional image of day-parents, presented by the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, an excellent paper addressing the Cinderella programme. I don't want to do this now, because everyone who's working on it knows all that. But what's going on? – The law takes only inadequately into account these aspects, and this is very bad, because it would have been possible with good will. The fact that – I don't know what the sound system has – even blurry formulations regarding curative and other treatments are contained in it is another beauty error. All in all, however, we are glad that there is little progress. Mr Stoisits will present an amendment, which has been developed together with my group. I hope that he will find a broad, inter-group agreement, and I would like to thank Mr Haller now for signaling the approval of the liberals. Perhaps this takes a few colleagues with good conscience from the government groups. Maybe! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17431	The next Mrs. Dr. Mertel is speaking. - Please. – Ladies and gentlemen, you can now prove how the speaker system really is ordered.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17453	Mr President. Thank you very much for changing now. But now it sounds for the speaker, so that he hears himself speaking a second time. The sound "hangs after". Mr Kier, we have only partly been able to follow because we did not understand him, not heard him, but did not observe him. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: This is the sound system!]] Yeah, that's a fact. The Minister too, I think, has hard to understand. Two initiatives preceded this Youth Welfare Act, which has already been said, a resolution of 19. A resolution from 1994 was adopted in September 1996. This shows that the Youth Welfare Act is still capable of meeting challenges today. However, amendments were made at the time. In the 1996 resolution, the Minister for Family Affairs was invited to submit to the National Council a draft government which was a central body for the reporting of injuries to the youth welfare service and for data protection safeguards of such reports. Both resolutions have now been taken into account. The aim of the amendment of the Youth Welfare Act is to make it more systematic to cover and also to fight more effectively against suspected cases of child abuse and sexual abuse. Mrs Haller, if you say that something has been found in an incredibly cynical way, then I would like to recall... [[Abg. Haller: The risk of repetition...!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17499	Please, ladies and gentlemen, make great use of your right of speech!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17514	Mr Dolinschek has repeatedly asked, and rightly asked: Does this mean that in the first case this remains punishment free? As the question was repeatedly asked, I then said: As is usual in legal practice. You think... – It's incredible how you're up there. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] It's very interesting. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Haller and Mr Meisinger.]] It is therefore essential to be able to effectively address this tragic and sad phenomenon of child abuse. [[New call of the abg. Haller.]] I think I really have an echo: As soon as I speak, Mrs. Haller cries up! This is really a phenomenon! [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: An echo wouldn't be too loud!]] One should examine this more closely. Thus, in the event of suspicion of abuse and sexual abuse, not only doctors are obliged to report to the competent youth welfare providers, as has already been decided in a novel to the Medical Law, but also other medical and non-medical professions. [[Issuances of the Abg. Haller and other Members of the Liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You see that your speech has great attention!]] Now even the lawyer turns on! Now it's going to be exciting! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The echo must come from the liberals! There are no more socialists!]] The new law also provides for the professionalization of the active persons and for an extension of the offer of social services. It is also recommended that youth welfare providers provide low-level services, such as streetwork or emergency shelters. Moreover, countries are authorized to pay compensations up to the amount of the care allowance to those persons who are related to the child concerned to the third degree. In addition, regular and commercial day care is regulated for the first time by law. The care in groups in suitable rooms shall be declared admissible; Prerequisites are an authorisation and the supervision of the youth welfare provider. For us Social Democrats, the professional qualification, but also the presence of personal and professional qualifications for caregivers is of great importance. This has been summarised in the motion for a resolution which instructs the Minister for Women and the Minister for Family Affairs to enter into negotiations with the federal states to ensure that the grant of approval for day-parents is linked to the existence of appropriate basic qualifications. We have also taken into account data protection concerns in an amendment. The suspicions are, as has been said, to collect personal data and to check them immediately, but incorrect data must be deleted. The corresponding administrative penalties were also regulated. I would like to point out that we Socialists do not, of course, fully and in principle shut down this issue with regard to the requests made by the liberals regarding home-country aid and the increase in the mother-child-pass bonus. As far as the central emergency service is concerned, the concern with the current novel on the Youth Welfare Act is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17609	The next honourable Member, Mr Mag, is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Your word in God's ear, Mr. President!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17639	Dobar večer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Without wishing to repeat what has been said so far: It is not the novel to the Youth Welfare Act as such that stimulates the criticism of the liberals and the Greens, but it is primarily the far-reaching opportunity that has not been taken here, which we criticize. Ladies and gentlemen! The essential thing is – and it is important to me to note this here too – that the initiative of Parliament at the time, in which a resolution was unanimously adopted, has now been clearly taken into account in a number of points – a key word of notification – although not quite the way the Federal Minister has presented himself – allows me to say this critically, because the Federal Minister has tabled a proposal which, for example, has caused great resistance to the Data Protection Council, and this proposal has been corrected in the Committee. That is exactly what I understand from Parliament's work that the Committee is saying: Minister, that's not how it is! We are the legislator, we want it different! - That's what happened. I would like to thank those who have worked for it, especially the social workers and the social workers, but also the data protectors. But now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to those points that do not agree with us, and I would now also like to read them in the context of the amendment tabled by Mr Motter and Mr Stoisits. In doing so, we will put at the heart of the arguments already made by Mr Kier and, in part, by Mrs. Haller – but very much on the verge – at the very heart of the remarks. [[Abg. Großruck: Place the statements in the center of the topic!]] Mr President. I am now reading the amendment – it is quite long – and I would like to discuss it. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last word: National legislation. I would now like to discuss the amendment in such a way that you understand what we are talking about. It is not for us to say that what the legislator now has in store for youth welfare is bad. No, not at all! The presentation contains significant progress! Mrs. Dr. Moser has already said to anchor streetworking or emergency dorms for children in the law – in a framework law, well noticed! – is quite positive and is strongly supported by those who work in this metier. But the whole thing, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing but a placebo, if at the same time it means that there must be no cost! The law is cost-neutral: Nobody's growing up with it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it will not be in line with the intentions that the National Council has implemented positively here in 1996, namely that we are more in favour of youth welfare in the sense of aid to those who are victims of abuse or abuse, that is, those who are in need of help. This is also a topic that is now being led by everyone in their mouths in the beginning of the election year: Everyone is about the family and the children, and everyone wants to help, and money is given everywhere. But where the legislator actually had the opportunity to intervene, and where it is about spending resources on the care system for those families who are in fact in need – and these are those who need the youth welfare provider – you refuse to do something! It is easy to announce "carnation money for all" and, so to speak, to distribute the money with the casting can all over Austria, but those who really need it will be forgetfully forgotten, even if now a law is being dealt with. – That’s what bothers us most – not so much us as MEPs, but those who work in these areas, and these are primarily social workers and social pedagogists. Ladies and gentlemen! But there is another point to criticise in this context, and this is about the day-fathers and mothers and about day-care. What this law now allows is the fundamental tendency of so-called "laization", as the social workers call it. It is a question of drawing attention to the fact that we are missing the opportunity to create uniform federal training arrangements. There are federal states in Austria that act as an example, ladies and gentlemen, but there are also those who are dumping: Dumping in training, on training-related conditions for admission to the profession. The reason for this is simply that people will cost less! That's clear! This goes so far that in Vorarlberg you will forgive the young people's well-being to the local farmers! Yes, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, if public youth welfare is now understood in such a way that someone who has already had several children and is known as child-loving, without fulfilling any other conditions, has the qualification to take over the tasks of the public youth welfare provider, then, please, please, stop any way of demanding qualifications! But that's reality and it's already happening! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Kier.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The social workers have also calculated exactly what those measures would cost to the positive intention of the law, and they have called 50 million schilling as a lower limit and an amount of 200 million schilling for the realization of "voluntary construction", as it would be possible. – These are the sums that it is about and that are refused! That is why we have tabled our amendment, and that is why our request is being made in this direction. Some of the members of the National Council have already joined this request to those who are concerned about the clients, but at the same time also concern about the colleagueship – social workers and social pedagogical women – who are still going to do so – but this is not yet the majority, and it is only a little time to think about it. This tedious opportunity is perceived as a mockery in the face of all the words that have been spoken in recent weeks and months regarding family, children, concern for children, abuse and all that really exists. I do not doubt that the Minister of the Federal Government is going to confess to them today in great concern for the families here – rightly! But his action in relation to this law contradicts the blatant!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17736	The request just read has been properly submitted, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17761	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen, Stoisits! Allow me to address your remarks at the beginning of my speech. I don't think much of it – a family policy! – to address the issue of "improvement in youth welfare" or to play these issues against each other. It is not in the case of the "carnation money for all" the talk of a casting pot that is poured out all over Austria, where also those karenz money that do not need it, but it is the speech of karenz money for those who actually need it. Or do you think, Mrs Stoisits, that students, students, members of small incomes, i.e. up to a maximum of 3 899 s, are not per week, but per month – 130 000 women are, according to statistics, in such employment conditions –, do not need it? You need it! That is why it is my personal wish as well as the wish of my group – even if we, as you and we know, are not yet ready – to take this as a family policy measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But with it to the JWG-Novelle: It is a practiced game that those political groups who have little or no responsibility in the countries are lightened by the demand for uniform federal regulations, for legislation which is taking place here in Vienna, even if constitutional competence is quite clear among the countries. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: That's not true! That's wrong!]] That's where we keep government fractions different: We have the responsibility here, and we have to take note – whether it fits us in individual cases or not – of the fact that the Youth Welfare Act is a principle law, which will then be left to the countries to implement. Mrs Stoisits and ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals and Greens! It is precisely this line that draws through your amendment – it is not a motion for a resolution that you referred to it before, but rather an amendment –: They distrust the countries. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Right! I'm right to distrust them!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kier: Right!]] You want to give the countries massively what to do and what to do with your amendment. - I can't do that! We don't want that! In this respect, for example, the Constitutional Service, in its opinion on the first draft ministerial draft, has drawn clear limits to which we have responded. We have not only responded to objections to data protection – and that is a good thing – but we have also responded to objections from the Constitutional Service. [[Abg. Grandruck: They have no idea!]] It is simply not acceptable for us here to specify exactly which staff are required to obtain the qualification of a qualified social worker and which are not. [[Abg. Dr. Kier: He doesn't need a qualification at all...!]] This will and will be done by the countries. You also know, Mrs Stoisits – because, when you talk to the chairman of your party, you are talking to a university scholar at the same time – that if you are so clear in a principle law that the enforcer no longer has the right to take legislative action by definition, you are acting unconstitutionally. You can't expect that from the government groups! [[Abg. Dr. Kier: But the level can be set! The level!]] Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, however, this Youth Welfare Act is indirectly also a confirmation of the good development that youth welfare takes in our country and is also confirmed by the youth welfare report that the High House has not discussed for too long. Youth welfare, which is about 1.5 percent of young people who have to care for children in this country, is doing so increasingly within families, in agreement with the families concerned, and is trying to bring about family-like facilities for youth welfare as far as possible. In this context, I do not lose the opportunity to use nurses. If you, Mrs Stoisits, demand careparents' qualifications – courses and the like – then you will achieve one thing: that careparents will no longer find themselves! Then, as a possibility, there is really only the home. We'd better stay on the ground. I very much believe that rural families who have raised some children are so trustworthy that they can also take up farms. This is always more family-friendly and child-friendly than some home-education – apart from the fact that the costs there are four, five and six times. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Haller! I would also like to ask you if you still allow this to happen at this late hour. They meant that the law was not worth the paper it says. To this end, I can tell you: This goes a little too far, even if it is a late evening opposition to a law. [[Abg. Haller: No!]] Your objection that there is no central reporting point is also not true. It is a central concern of these JWG-Novelle! That is what we have achieved and achieved! Mrs Mertel has already done this: The relevant professional groups – medical and similar groups dealing with young people – now know what to do, know in what cases they have to report – in particularly serious cases they have to report – and when they are entitled to report to the youth welfare provider, because there is just a threat or a threat to the child's well-being that has already occurred. [[Abg. Haller: If these are not even precisely defined!]] That's much more clarity than we have now. [[Abg. Haller: This is a far-reaching opportunity, Mr. Minister!]] The corresponding vote will also take place with the novel of the Medical Law, and that will no longer be possible, in future, or only more rarely, what Mrs Moser has urged, namely that smearers "sledge" their children from doctor to doctor or from hospital to hospital, in order to cover up the related injuries. We hope that, in as many cases as possible, young people will be able to obtain and obtain the necessary data as they live in: Halt, the child has already fallen off the wheel this month for the second time and has committed a suspicious injury! Then you can and must act, you have to follow it! The fact that the countries are now called on and invited to network this data among themselves is of course a matter of course. However, it is also true that the Federal legislator cannot tell the countries that. We now foresee that this is done in the country by the respective office of residence. Everything else will be and will be with the countries. Mrs Mertel has already given an opinion on the other proposals. I would like to thank you for continuing to be in favour of measures in the field of home transport aid. [[Abg. Haller: That's a little bit! A little bit is that!]] I believe that it is indeed necessary for us to do something for school leavers – for example, for those who are behind you – to do something for pupils who have to go far into vocational schools. We are almost that far, and we should realize something meaningful in this area by 1.1.2000, because this is usually the case here with young people, apprentices and students from families who do not have a special "dick" in financial terms and who need this help. [[Abg. Haller: Then do it!]] In this sense, Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17944	Thank you very much, Minister of State. Mr Ellmauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e17968	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We hear or read reports in the media about child abuse almost every day. Most of the families or neighbors who observe violence in children are overwhelmed and therefore often look away. "Children have a right to childhood, to time and word", says the well-known child and youth psychiatrist Professor Max Friedrich. – The primary task of public youth welfare is to strengthen the educational strength of families. If the right-wings cannot or do not want to guarantee the well-being of their children, but especially in the event of educational violence to children, public youth welfare is required to intervene. In order to protect our children and in their interest, it is gratifying that there is now a novel to the Youth Welfare Act which meets today's needs. The amendment makes the following changes: Professionalization of the people in youth welfare – Mrs. Colleague Stoisits! – extending the range of social services, such as parent education, extending the entitlement to care for related persons, regulating day care for children, providing experience education as a methodological approach, breaking through the obligation of confidentiality of health care members in the event of the risk of child welfare and introducing a cost replacement for parents in support of education. In addition, the amendment provided for a central body for reporting injuries to the youth welfare provider and for the corresponding data protection safeguards for such notifications. The better compatibility of family and profession is a major challenge for many parents today. However, more and more businesses have also become a concern for family-friendly solutions from an economic point of view. Family kindness in operation is calculated. The current novelle also supports these concerns. Many parents like to use the services of mothers or fathers in order to be able to pursue a job at least half a day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dayparents do great work and offer the possibility that the toddler is integrated into a family during the day while at the same time being able to join and play with other children. Of course, parents who leave their child to a mother can be calmer if the mother-in-law has the same qualifications. The Youth Welfare Act aims to establish a framework for the activities of day-parents. The professional qualifications and the personal suitability of day-parents are of great importance here. A corresponding motion for a resolution, which was adopted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, aims exactly in this direction. Now also a few words about the mother-child passport: The great decline in medical examinations related to the mother-child passport – as predicted by the opposition, especially by the "F" – has not occurred. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the statistics! Once again you underestimated the maturity and the sense of responsibility of the Austrian parents! The measures put in place by Federal Minister Bartenstein – in particular the so-called Recall System, in which mothers are credited before each examination of the child and receive relevant information material – are a full success. Approximately 400 000 letters are sent per year. Costs do not arise for the state, the money is brought in by sponsoring. The free medical examinations and the 2 000 S bonus are used by around 94 percent of parents. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My group would like to agree with this novel of the Youth Welfare Act, which contains so many innovations that are true to our time.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18027	Mr Dolinschek is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. The total speaking time of the liberal club is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18048	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For years, the Austrian Federal Government has been disadvantaged the Austrian families, be it by shortening the karenz period or by the prescribed savings packages that families have cost 20 billion schilling. The savings packages of 1995 and 1996 have continued to deteriorate social security. A good one third of the family support flows into the upper three-in-a-kind income. The reduction in family allowances, the removal of the birth allowance, the removal of home travel aid and the reduction in the increase in the pension allowance have particularly affected low incomes. The problem of child care for parents from the time when both parents want to return to work after a child's break has lost nothing of up-to-dateity, but has increasingly strengthened. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are large gaps in child care opportunities between supply and demand with regard to flexible care periods which meet the professional and time requirements of parents. These problems, but also the fear of financial distress due to a professional break or several children, cause a marked drop in birth. Every third Austrian between 20 and 39. Life is childless today, although only every 20 years. Women in Austria do not want to have children. Ladies and gentlemen! These figures clearly show that there is a desire for children in Austria, but the obstacles to the compatibility of family and work have still not been removed! The freedom of choice and equal opportunities for parents and children is a free model of child care checks and it is possible to remedy the problem of lack of optimal and child-friendly care, and it can be used in particular immediately. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All other ideas, such as they are colported by the SPÖ – introducing flexible kindergarten times into public kindergartens or operating kindergartens – are much more expensive and not immediately feasible. Ladies and gentlemen! In the case of home aid for pupils and apprentices: With the Structural Adjustment Act in 1995, the payment of home travel aid for pupils and apprentices who have to live outside the main residence at the school town was cancelled by a boarding school or housed in private households and taken home on the weekend. This is particularly detrimental to families in rural and transport poorly developed regions compared to those in urban areas when children attend a school or do a training which is not comparable in the home. This increased financial burden from the weekly home trips carried by these families because of regional circumstances for the training of their children is still not taken into account in the Family Tax Compensation Act and must be challenged on its own resources. This is contrary to the original intention to set up the Family Compensation Fund, which has to ensure benefits and benefits for all parents or their legitimate children. In order to remedy this problem, I put forward the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you have anything left for the Austrian families as a people's representative, then give this motion for a resolution your consent and support the family's desire!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18137	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is supported accordingly and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Tegischer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18162	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to limit myself to very few points in the Youth Welfare Act. Let me turn the wheel of time back 21 years: I did my internship in my hometown of Lienz at the Youth Office and I still experienced the horror of the caregiver, who corresponded to every cliché who, for example, during the house visits with "This is my apprentice!" presented and focused on hygienic components; at that time children were also brought to their homes with the help of the executive. Thank God these times are over! There were also efforts at the time to recruit trained diploma social workers. It was possible, however, that one was terminated because she wore jeans. Thank God this time is over! It was a further path from the care police to youth welfare, and I am absolutely of the opinion that this Youth Welfare Act is going in the right direction, that it contains useful framework conditions and that it represents an important step away from the education of care and administrative control towards voluntary assistance and also unusual social therapeutic measures. Let me take out two areas, which are particularly relevant to me as a social worker or which I think are very good: On the one hand, low-end offers like "Streetworking": "Streetworking" creates a practical link between the youth and the authorities. Picking up young people where they are is a goal and action. The other area is the so-called experience pedagogy, which repeatedly creates scepticism among the population, partly out of ignorance, partly because it actually works with very unusual measures, which are primarily aimed at providing young people with different learning and development opportunities in deep life crises. – I do not want to go into experience education now, but I would be very happy to provide you with information. If anyone wants documents, I'd like to give them to him. But, unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough. Both in these outpatient fields of work and in the youth offices, but also in the homes, a professionalization is particularly important to me. I agree with my colleagues from the professional association of the ÖBDS on the fact that, in the youth welfare field, diploma social workers – or those of professional groups who comply with the EU Directive – and on home education are employed as diplomats of social education. I do not want to correct you, but I do not think it is right that it is not constitutionally possible to indicate a professional group. It is only constitutionally not possible to indicate a number of persons. I and other colleagues of my group therefore agree with the amendment tabled by the Liberals and the Greens. [[Congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] But also in the field of day care, I have to report concerns: The Minister of Women and also the Minister of Foreign Affairs have made great efforts to achieve the minimum standards. I know. But the countries have crossed, and I also know why. However, the implementation of the minimum standards would have been a prerequisite to enable qualified childcare. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] As for FLAF, I would like to repeat: Our group would like to see care and care for those who need it, and perhaps we could support training and qualification from the FLAF surpluses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18226	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18247	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I did not want to comment on the Youth Welfare Act with a syllable, because my colleague Stoisits gave our opinion very good and sufficient reason. But one comment, Minister of State, animated me to do so. I have to say something again. [[Abg. Ellmauer: He has to " again"!]] If you say: It's a light game! Those political groups that have no or little responsibility in the countries are doing well. They can make demands, then I have to answer you: Federal Minister! You've been thinking of someone, and I'm thinking of someone. I am thinking, for example, of the EIA, not because it is not responsible in the countries, but because it is responsible for it and does not perceive it. [[Abg. Ellwall: You have no idea of the practice!]] Federal Minister! You did it yourself again: They bring us the debate on the karenz money for everyone, and that is wonderful in itself. But in the federal states, where the ÖVP has been responsible for decades and where it would be possible for its constitution to exercise its responsibility in relation to childcare and family policy, social assistance laws which make it very difficult, especially young, single, but not only single, women and mothers, but also families, to get rid of this burden of social assistance, including the obligation to legislate, which the ÖVP has to answer in these federal states, and to get out of this poverty trap. No one would have prevented the ÖVP from creating an adequate equivalent performance in those federal states for those women who have not received the old karenz money! No one is preventing the EIA in those federal states in which it bears responsibility to remove the rupture for these women and for these families! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach.]] Federal Minister! For brutality lies in the fact that precisely in the EIA-regulated federal states, the affected women and families, who have nothing to rely on social assistance, are being taken to justice by the EIA governments and are told: You have to pay back! And if you can't, then your relatives must pay back! – This is hypocrisy, Minister of State! That's hypocrisy! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] That's hypocrisy! For it is up to the federal states to exercise their responsibility in this area in relation to child care. This is a task which, according to the Federal Constitution, is also entrusted to the federal states. But it is precisely the EIA-regulated countries that are cleaning up and saying: They're supposed to pay quietly! If they have a big one again or earn something, then they have to pay back, then they have to "burn". – This is poverty policy or a policy of perpetuating poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonja Moser-Starrach.]] And then you can say so easily and elegantly, Minister of State: We feel sorry for the small employees! – But it is your federal states, Mr. Federal ministers, who have no sympathy for those who really need it most! – That’s all you can say. Federal Minister! A comment on quality standards: If you say that's not your job, because the League would be much too strong to regulate if it were to provide something on this issue of quality standards, then I must say: Federal Minister! With this argument and similar construction, the federal states should be able to set their own quality standards in the field of teacher training! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ellwall.]] Thank God it is not possible! Thank God we have a uniform quality system for both the teachers of the state and for the teachers of the Federal Republic and for the teachers! Because it would really be the last thing if we had a Styrian country teacher with Styrian standards and a Tyrolean country teacher with Tyrolean standards in terms of quality and criteria for their training! That would really be the last thing! But what is not comparable to the quality standards in this area, Mr Federal Minister? This area is also concerned with education and training, and this is no less important than the school sector. What's the difference? – I say: The legislator does not make this difference possible. You see it differently. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The Constitutional Service sees it differently too!]] A number of opinions are certainly possible from the Constitutional Service, if only you ask the right question, I would say once, Minister of the State. However, I do not think that the Constitutional Service can do so if the legislator actually wants to have uniform quality standards regulated and defined. This does not mean that the countries have to be prescribed on all points. However, certain quality standards should be defined, not only for the social workers in the youth welfare sector, but of course – as has been the case with teachers – for all those who have to deal with training issues. No one's excited about the teachers either. And I think it would only be cheap to do the same with regard to youth welfare. I would like to make one more comment on the free request concerning child care check. Federal Minister! That also concerns you again and, of course, the argument of the liberals! Of course, we can say: There is a lot of money in the FLAF, and that is why we want to re-distribut the money. . I do not know whether this has already been said in the debate; I think I can remember that someone has just pointed out this from the liberals: It was precisely the savings packages one and two that led to billions being saved at the expense of those who had a right to karenz money and family benefits. And the accusation that I cannot save the Social Democrats and, of course, the EIA is that they have been involved in the dismantling of, for example, the karenz money.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18328	Mr Oellinger! The final sentence, please! The entire speaking time of your club is exhausted!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18354	This accusation is not to be spared to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and it would really be all too cheap, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals to use this money in such a way that there is no such thing...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18373	Please end the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18388	... to which one has taken it away, but new groups. That's one of the objections to this babysitting check.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18418	Mrs Horngacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18440	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The dramaticly rising drop in birth already threatens the generation contract. From 1993 to 1998, the number of births decreased by more than 12,000, i.e. by 14 percent. In other words: One generation is only replaced by two thirds by the following. That must give us real thought! Why is that so? What measures can we take? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You can read this in the 1989 Family Report!]] First of all, I'd say: A first step is karenz money for everyone, really for everyone! We don't need a two-class woman society! We strongly reject these! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're every child and every woman is worth the same thing. The second step will also have to be the childcare check. It is said to be valid until the sixth year of life and costs about 30 billion schilling. Therefore, he is not to be realized today, for the money is not available. Unfortunately, we will also have to vote against it this time. I hope, however, that we will be able to achieve this in the foreseeable future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] However, I would like to say to the Liberals: If Haider in Carinthia promises the child care check now, I don't know: Is this check covered or not? Carinthia is one of the worst in Germany. That is why it is impossible for me to imagine that this is feasible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This has been the case since Zernatto was the head of state!]] You should not make promises in the campaign at the expense of the families you cannot keep! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Chief of Debt Zernatto!]] However, I am absolutely in favour of introducing the care check if it is financially feasible. It is a pleasure that Federal Minister Bartenstein could increase the parental education budget by 3 million schillings to 30 million schillings, double that of the Family Hard Fund to 30 million schillings, and increase that of family advice to 150 million schillings. These are great achievements! Family policy means: But not only does the ÖVP see financial security, but it also creates training places for children and young people and child-friendly design of the children's habitat. For I must say: Of course, a farm is an ideal place to raise children, and it is certainly very difficult to have several children in a big town. There are enormous difficulties, including the housing problem. But the protection of children from drugs and crime is also a very important thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] We need stable families, because stable families provide the best prerequisite for the good development of children. You've got a little easier in life. And we have to do everything for this today, because today the family is really at risk. We just need to look at the divorce numbers. We're going to have to think about why. I was a family helper for five years and have been drawn from one family to another in about 14 days. That is why I have some experience in this regard, and I believe that one of the reasons for the present situation is perhaps the fact that too many tasks have been taken out of the families: If old people in the family can no longer be cared for and if the children already have to leave from a small age, then the family does not keep together as much as it would be necessary to ensure that there is cohesion there. - We just have to think about that. We also need to consider: What's a child? If we look at a flower, a landscape or nature at all, we see that this is wonderful. But a child is much more wonderful, it's a miracle. Perhaps you only notice this with increasing age. I'll be grandma soon for the third time. It may therefore be a particular concern for me to point out that a child is in need of protection. There are animals that come to the world and can help themselves. A child, on the other hand, is absolutely dependent. It depends on the protection of the mother. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're right! But why will the ÖVP decide tomorrow on the practical exemption of child pornography?]] We won't decide! We certainly don't decide! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Tomorrow you decide!]] I believe that it is properly arranged by nature that the mother stays with the child for the first few years. And she should be able to stay if she wants to. We need to make this possible for the children. This must be possible at a time when we have general prosperity! Then we've done a lot for the children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to say to the Youth Welfare Act: I have confidence in the federal states. I have participated in the discussions in the Tyrolean Landtag on the Youth Welfare Act, and I know that there is also a great effort to do everything for the children. In Tyrol there are more children in care families than in public homes and institutions, and that is good. With the first demand that care families should necessarily have a training, we would have ruined a lot there. That in this direction: Youth welfare in Tyrol is subject to the Department of Social Democratic Head of State, Prock, and he has vehemently spoken against endangering the care families in this way. And I think children are well taken care of in nursing families!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18564	Mrs Madl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18586	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Oellinger! I'll give you the right if you say: There, where the EIA has the responsibility in the countries, there will never be anything for families and women. And that is why we will prove by the example of Carinthia with a head of state Dr. Jörg Haider that the child care check is financially and feasible. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We will take you by word!]] Mrs. Horngacher! I do not understand that you, wherever in Tyrol Your head of state Weingartner goes home with the child care check, stands here and says that he is not eligible for funding and you cannot imagine that a federal state can finance it. They say: The childcare check is not yet eligible for funding. However, her head of state moves through the country and promises the electorate the child care check. – This is fraud on the voters, Mrs. Horngacher! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! The child care check will be covered in Carinthia under a head of state Dr. Jörg Haider!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18646	Mr Riepl has also been mentioned on the floor. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18668	Mr President. Federal Minister! The current novel of the Youth Welfare Act takes account of an urgent need for reform. My colleagues, Mr Mertel and Mr Tegischer, have already pointed out in detail the content and needs in their statements. I believe that the objective of public youth welfare is, among other things, to promote the education of families, and we all know that the vast majority of parents do not actually need special support by the state and by society. Federal Minister! I think I really understood you. Only 1.5 percent of the young people concerned are, as it were, also in the care of youth welfare. However, I believe that if violence against children or young people – including violence of every kind – is in play, then public intervention is necessary, even compulsory. I would just like to mention one point in the new law, which seems to me to be important, namely the provision that, if the young person wants to, he can continue to be cared for beyond the age of the youth, that is, until the 21st century. Year of life. This is an important innovation, especially in the case that vocational training has not yet been completed. That is, as I mean, especially worth mentioning. However, I would like to make one more comment on Mrs Horngacher's comments. You said, I think, if I understood you correctly, that the child care check costs 30 billion schillings. – I have to disagree with you a little: He can't cost that much! You certainly paid off a little bit! For if you look closely at Mrs Haller's request, you can see that she is very concerned about the families, but in reality not all families are giving this check, regardless of whether he is covered or not. It would like to issue this check in accordance with this request, which we are going to reject, namely expressly only for Austrian families. And that is, I think, worth being mentioned here as well.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18708	Mr Koller is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). However, there is no more time available for the liberal club to speak. That's why I'll call the next word. This is Mr Schuster. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I agree with all the political parties here in the House that, in their view, they are trying to help families. I would like to hold this for the first time. But there are different content and also different ways to reach this goal. We need a lot of laws and regulations, ladies and gentlemen, to make family work. But one thing is irrevocably clear: The model is and remains a family with two parents and children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This form of family has proved its worth in history and has borne the main responsibility for child rearing. Today, when we discuss the government paper and discuss how the Youth Welfare Act will prove itself in the coming years, a sentence seems to me to be very significant. I quote him: The primary task of public youth welfare is to strengthen the educational strength of the family. High house! Who doesn't know them, the press releases that shake everyone when it says: Sexual violence against children. Look, listen, act. Every fourth girl will be victims of sexual violence. - High house! If the media provide us with reports on this, it is absolutely essential, in my opinion, not only to take note of it, but to oppose it by seeing, hearing and trying to change this situation. I believe that the Youth Welfare Act or the novel that we are discussing today is an important step in this direction. High house! We also know, however, that the Youth Welfare Act brings about changes in particular where it is concerned that various people receive special training that there are nursing parents. A amendment by Dr. Moser-Starrach and Dr. Mertel addresses the basic qualification for day parents in particular. I should like to point out that, in my view, all these facilities can only be replacement facilities compared to a functional and functional family. But if there are already facilities in the federal states from which we have endangered young people, care for them and train them there, and if money has to be paid in a monthly order of over 50,000 s, then this must give us reason to think, High House! For these funds come from taxpayers and are passed on via social assistance associations to the relevant organisations. I believe that day-parents – day-mothers, day-fathers – could certainly do better and cheaper work in close proximity to the affected children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! A few comments on the Freedom Party's request for home aid for pupils and apprentices: I'll bet you do that. This application is entitled to some content. But allow me, High House, to point out that in Bad Aussee's ruling sentence of 21 and 22. This year, among other things, this issue was also raised quite clearly. The Minister of Finance and the Federal Minister of Finance together in 2000 set the course of correcting this injustice, as I call it, in any case. For this, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very sincerely for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! The Liberals' Group has tabled a motion for a resolution which sets out the declaration of support for a family wish. This declaration of support has been printed word-identifiably in a form of the family association. Everyone and everyone knows: If one was written down and caught in the compulsory school by a fellow student, then there was a "not enough, sit"! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Then there is a lack of satisfaction!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If you make it so easy to print out a statement of support – whether it is good or less good – in full content, simply invading and letting no spirit flow in yourself, then I must say: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You don't have teachers!]] Parliamentaryism is really not that simple! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Whether you agree, that's the question!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say something that is personally my heart. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are the demands bad?]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: I don't know if you agree to your own demands!]] In the discussion on family promotions, in the discussion on tax reliefs, in the discussion on free travel and in similar discussions, we must not forget one thing: Children are not a pure cost factor, nor are they a burden to the general public. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you vote against the extrajudicial compensation for child abuse tomorrow?]] Children are primarily an enrichment for personal and social life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do you vote against the extrajudicial compensation for child abuse tomorrow?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! He's not right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, families mean quality of life, because they bring life to our communities and to our cities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. May. Stadler) He's an angle lawyer! A rabbi!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and to the liberals.]] The Group of the People's Party will support and agree to the Government's proposal on youth welfare. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Vote against tomorrow!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. May. Stadler) A pensioner!]] The requests of the Freedom Party are not approved by us and not supported by us.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18956	Mrs Haller has made a statement on an actual correction. I would ask you to repeat the case to be corrected and then make the correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e18988	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker, Mr Schuster, claimed that we would not have developed our own ideas in today's motion for a resolution and would have brought in only the family's desire. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You didn't!]] [[Further call-ins]] I'll correct him. That's wrong! [[Abg. May. Posch: Is that an actual correction?]] Mr Schuster! You either have not read our request carefully, or... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What's wrong?]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP: What is wrong?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is the actual correction, Mr President?]] Right...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19071	High house! It is not a matter of acoustically perceptible for me, as Mrs Haller says, when you call all of you here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19117	Let me talk! – It is true that the text of our motion for a resolution is probably different from the text of the family popular desire that lies down, but is the same in content. If you compare the text, Mr Schuster, you will be there.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19156	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I can't call you. Your club's speaking time is completely exhausted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To the Rules of Procedure!]] To the Rules of Procedure? - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19212	Mr President. I want...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19230	Please do not hesitate to comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19245	Mr President. I would like to make a formal protest against the time-limits adopted in accordance with the rules of procedure. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am of the firm conviction that the practice exercised by the government in this House means that free speech is no longer available to the free Member because time limits are being applied, the free mandate is no longer feasible in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Then don't talk for so long!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have to be able to budget!]] I should also like to point out that, as MEP Martin Graf, I am not at my disposal for important matters, to which I could and should speak, and that I am therefore unable to exercise my right to speak. I shall, on this occasion, bring a constitutional court complaint in the next few days to point out quite simply that the practice of speaking time in this House violates every free mandate and every Member's free speech right. [[Rejoicing at SPÖ and ÖVP]]
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19309	Mr Graf! The Bureau shall adopt the Rules of Procedure. The provisions are perfectly clear. It is therefore necessary to decide how it happened. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19334	Mr President. I would like to stress that the free mandate in this House is unthinkable and has been used by Mr Graf and all his colleagues this morning to agree to the limit on speaking time. The decision to limit speaking time – the "Vienna hours" we agreed on – was unanimous. Therefore, a complaint is not only incorrect, but even ridiculous.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19376	Mrs Perfuss is now speaking on the matter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19397	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dr. Graf, it's very easy: Your colleagues have been talking for too long, that's it! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] It's very simple, but you certainly had something important to say. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: "Shit in the knee" is called that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All angle lawyers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No calls if there is no more speaking time!]] I would like to be in solidarity with my colleagues, Dr. Graf, I also have very little time to speak. The speakers of my group have given a detailed opinion on the subject. I would therefore like to make just a few comments. The implementation of the novelle on the Youth Welfare Act – one can claim – will ensure modern and problem-related care for children and young people in the future. The regular and commercial day care of minors outside school, kindergarten and hort will be the first – for the first time, ladies and gentlemen! – regulated by law. Further professionalization is undisputed and already in full swing. It was discussed by the previous speakers on the subject of day-parents. I would like to point out that the Cinderella project is on behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Steibl: But this is also an eye-removing!]] There will be a report and it will probably be discussed and discussed properly in the National Council, and it will hopefully serve as a presentation for the countries. As a founder, Mrs Steibl, you will confirm this, I can tell from Styria that the AMS has trained a large number of day mothers with high qualification standards. I can say this because I am a social and professional teacher myself and also worked as a trainer in many courses. In my opinion, there is a great potential for qualified persons in the Steiermark. [[Abg. Steibl: She's already got it!]] I hope that will be implemented in the other federal states. Federal Minister! Since it has not been addressed, I would like to stress that I am very glad that the collection of remuneration for support for education has been lost: § 33 and part of § 39. In any event, it is difficult for parents to accept assistance in the form of support for education. I mean, if there is also a need to pay for this, the level of inhibition in this area is even greater. Unfortunately, I could not be present in committee because I had an accident, otherwise I would also have mentioned the issue of free travel for boarding school students. I am pleased that the discussion on the extension of the free movement of students to boarding school students and apprentices will start again. In my opinion, it is about equality before the law. It is not fair for students of the AHS and similar schools to be able to take the free ride every day, while boarding schools are not even financed by the way back and forth. Federal Minister! You know that there is a unanimous request from the countryside in Styria and also activities of parents and delegates in our district. I am pleased that you once spoke positively on this subject. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: I've been doing this for a long time! We just need finance minister Edlinger!]] All right. But if it is stressed again and again, Minister of State, that in the FLAF there is such a high surplus and that the money is made available to the people, then it is not clear to the parents concerned why the free ride will be prevented from them. [[Abg. Steibl: It is also useful, Mrs Colleague!]] I think it is necessary to ensure that funding is also possible through FLAF. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19531	Mr Müller is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19552	Mr President. Mr. Family Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The free application for a babysitting check would mean a massive deterioration for the families. In addition to karenz money, part-time aid, return aid or special emergency aid, of course, a number of other benefits for parents would also be removed. One of the consequences would be a disastrous development of childcare facilities. In my community alone, the withdrawal of the country's personnel promotion, which currently amounts to 610 000 S for two half-day groups, would be the parents' contributions for a half-day kindergarten – well-notified: per child and month! – speed up from currently 900 S to more than 3 000 S. In addition to the use of non-available federal funds, Dr. Haider promises municipal funds at billions. Therefore, in Carinthia there will not be any head of state Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: This will not be determined by you, but by the voters!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a pointless fight for the new mandate!]] High house! At the last National Council meeting, which was demanded by the liberals and which ultimately led to the withdrawal of the legally condemned Member of Parliament Walter Meischberger, the free parliamentarian Haider, like ordinary citizens who are not committed to the liberal thought, once again accused of unjust criminal acts. Haider – of course in the protection of immunity – accused the Social Democratic Villacher Landtagsreiter Dietmar Koncilia of being prepunished. [[Abg. Gaugg: Is he too! Did he attack the referee or not?]] I am right to say that no convictions appear in the criminal record regarding Dietmar Koncilia on a serious date. I will then make a copy of this extract available to your club. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So much on the subject of truth. So this scandalous accusation of the liberals was not an individual case, but has a system. Apparently, the Freilicher Haider is right for all means to make political dissidents mouth dead. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Dkfm. Holger Bauer, Gaugg and Scheibner.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I'm afraid. I am afraid, in view of the forthcoming elections, when freedom of movement officials resort to such practices in order to be elected in political functions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I hope that voters will not vote in favour of these methods during the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19664	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We do not have the final words of the rapporteurs and therefore immediately enter the voting procedure. - I ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 1619 of the supplements. Hiezu have deputies Mother, Mag. Stoisits and comrades submitted an amendment. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts concerned by the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – I ask for a little more attention! Deputies Motter, Mag. Stoisits and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 2, 4 and 7. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. In case of your consent, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft law at third reading to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority. The draft law was adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 1619. In the event that you are joining this resolution, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. (E 162) We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1620. If you wish to take note of the report, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report in 1621. If you would like to give him the consent, I would ask for a sign of this kind. – This is done by the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the introduction of child care checks. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of This request is made by 20 Members, so the vote must be taken. The name of the vote will be taken in the way that Members are called in alphabetical order and that the vote will be taken by oral procedure from the place of deputies. For the purpose of the vote, I ask those who vote in favour to rise from the place and answer in a loud and clear way. Those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which has been put to the vote, I would like to ask them to reply with no exclusively. By repeating the name of the honourable Member and by reflecting his voting behaviour, I will also clarify the voting behaviour. If a Member is not present, I will expressly note this. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] For business treatment: Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19743	Mr President. Can you say exactly what request will be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19768	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the introduction of child care checks. [[Abg. Smolle: Because election is!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr Klubobmann Khol, is this information sufficient? - Good. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] I'll start with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19831	The vote will end. I am now interrupting the sitting for a few minutes to determine the outcome of the vote by the scribes and the staff to be assigned here. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10 p.m.) – Immediately after President Dr. Brauneder declared the meeting adjourned, Abg. May. Stadler knows that he still wants to speak on business treatment. – President Dr. Brauneder repeated: The session is suspended! – The competent officials shall make the number of votes.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19862	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Business treatment!]] Please, Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19897	Mr President. During the vote, a "no" was made clear from the social-democratic sector when the name "Seidinger" was called. All three protocols here, which were made here at the Bureau in co- paper, show a "no" next to the name "Seidinger". However, Mr Seidinger has not been here during the vote, nor is he here now. I would ask for clarification of this matter and I would also like to check whether or not other Members have voted in favour of the Minutes in connection with the vote, but have not been present. [[Call the SPÖ: The Haider! The shark also said "no"!]] In this case, I would ask for this choice to be repeated.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19936	Mr Klubobmann Kostelka also reported on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19957	Mr President. There is no question that Mr Seidinger...
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e19982	I'm asking for peace! I can't understand what's going on here. I really want to ask for a little more discipline! It's also – I don't want to use the word "childish" now! – not appropriate to act in the course of a vote as some Members have or are still doing here. Please, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's where you see what comes out! That's where you see what's coming out!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Calls to the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I mean exactly this behavior, which is being continued here now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20046	Mr President. There is no question that Mr Seidinger was not present at this vote. For me, therefore, it is not possible to explain how such a protocol could have happened here at the Bureau. It is not clear to me, however, that Members who have voted in favour of this protocol were written here as such that they would not have voted. Mrs Schaffenrath, who is present, has voted in favour, and according to my information, she was recorded as not voting by the Bureau. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to clarify this matter as well. I think that there has been some failure in this voting procedure, particularly when it comes to logging at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20082	Mr Kostelka! It can only be held here what is achievable. In many cases the "no" or "yes" was done very quietly, and I always repeated it. In the case of Deputies Schaffenrath was for me the "no", I think, or the "yes"... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: She didn't say it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: She was there!]] It is about whether I have heard this and deunified it through my repetition. It is true that I deunified the fact that Mrs Schaffenrath was not present and did not vote. On the other hand, as far as Mr Seidinger is concerned, it is so for me that I have heard a 'no', but that may be based on an error. [[Calls:No]] It may be based on an error! I have deunified this, and I am now in the process of decontaminating the entire vote. [[Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Mag. Stadler:To business treatment!]] In addition, I would like to hold on to the following: It would make no difference in the outcome of such error. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that someone vote wrong! There's no such thing as that when someone's not there at all!]] Mrs Petrovic, then Mr Stadler, spoke on business treatment. Please, Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20174	For business treatment – although it is very laborious and actually necessary –: Mrs Schaffenrath was here in the vote, I have seen her myself. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about Seidinger!]] It has also said "no", and it has also tried to protest, but it has not demonstrated this kind of childish behaviour, in a vote whose outcome is clear, even now in this way against the presidency here.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20225	For business treatment: Mr Stadler.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20247	Mr President. A democratic representative is expressed by votes. The vote is something of the essence of a democratic process. But if it is manipulated as it was now in connection with my colleague Seidinger – and I do not need to investigate the Schaffenrath case at all – it is obvious that this should not be the only case. I would therefore ask you once again, Mr President, to repeat the vote and carry it out with a vote in order to resolve any doubt. If you do not want to follow this wish of my group, Mr President, I would like to ask for a brief President-in-Office now.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20274	There is now a short President here. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20301	I will resume the previously interrupted session. As President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to point out that I am now the head-in-Office of the European Parliament, so to speak, of all complaints and wishes. The result of this short Presidential here is: We have talked about the two problems you have all heard. I repeat my opinion once again – and when I saw it correctly, I was most obliged to do so: I've failed results. I have decided that Mr Seidinger has voted with a 'no'. – I acknowledge that this can be based on an error. It has been deunified, and it has not been objected to this enunciation either. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course! I object!]] There was no contradiction in the immediate follow-up to this "no" vote. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I immediately objected, Mr President.]] I'm sorry, but I didn't see it. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I did this immediately!]] And in the case of Mrs Schaffenrath, it is the same. I would also like to point out that this decision is contrary to the fact that the overall outcome of the vote does not change anything. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Of course, we immediately objected, and the objection remains upright!]] Please, for me this contradiction was not clearly recognizable. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Is it at least that Seidinger wasn't there?]] Of course, everything that is spoken here in plenary is contained in the Stenographical Protocol. [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] I therefore now have the result: votes cast 143, of which "Yes" votes 34, "No" votes 109. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what it is! Bad choice flaws!]] I would like to say that I am very strongly opposed to the expression 'electional discrepancy' and I would like to add that the noise level in one group or another does not exactly facilitate the notification of voting behaviour or counting. [[Abg. Scheibner: What? If someone doesn't vote!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations and Bravo!-Call with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I repeat: Votes cast 143, of which "Yes" votes 34, "No" votes 109. [[Abg. Großruck: They are against their own president...! You have to experience that once!]] According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of Members will be included in the Stenographic Protocol and I would add that, of course, the Stenographic Protocol also includes those comments, which meant that Mr Seidinger was not in the Chamber at the time of the vote. [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] It is also included that I admit that there may have been an error of mine, an error of hearing. [[* S. also p. 198]] With "Yes", the Members voted: apple beck; Bauer Holger, Blünegger; Dolnschek; Förlinger; Gaugg, Count, Grollitsch; Haller, Chief, Hofmann; Young; Small, Koller, Kurzmann; Lauter; Madl, Marolt, Meisinger, Mentil; Nut trees; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Pumberger; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Tilg, Trattner, Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brinek, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Ellmauer, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freund, Fuchs; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Großruck, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl Kurt, Hlavac, Höchtl, Huber, Hums; Jäger, Jarolim; Kaipel, Kammerlander, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, König, Konrad, Koppler, Kopfler, Kostelka, Kukacka, Kummerer, Kurzbauer; Langthaler, Leiner, Lösnak, Lukasch; Maier Johann, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser-Starrach Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Parsley, Pendl, Peter, Petrovic, Pittermann, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Schieder, Schmidt, Schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwimmer, Seidinger (**), Sigl, Silhavy, Smolle, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stoisits; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20501	We shall continue in the vote and vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1622. If you want to take note of the report, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is done by the majority. The report has been taken note of. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report in 1623. If you want to do this, I would ask for a sign of it. – This is the majority. Accepted. 22. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 971/A by Mr Walter Murauer and Mr Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the 1992 National Council electoral order (NRWO)
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20551	We're getting to the 22nd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20578	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the motion for a resolution 971/A the subject of the introduction of the letter election, a further development of the right to vote, has now been brought to Parliament. This is a request towards closer proximity to the citizen. I would also like to say that the selection of letters has already been carried out internationally. This request is also based on the request for the introduction of the election of letters, on the decisions of the Landtag Presidents' Conference of 2. ==References== Last October, as well as a unanimous decision on the land day in Upper Austria or on the Klubobmen of the ÖVP-Landtags-Klubobmen, as well as on the motion for a resolution by the Federal Councils of Weiss, Bieringer and Huemer, which aims at the national autonomy in the design of the electoral right. I should also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a special interest in the right to vote in letter, which is the right of the disabled and the elderly. I would also like to remind you that 340 000 Austrians are over 80 years old. This proposal by us, by the EIA, aims to meet the right to mobility of all citizens and to develop democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the situation in Austria in this context: In contrast to comparable advanced democracies in Europe, Austria has a relatively cumbersome and bureaucratic system for citizens who do not reside on the day of election at the place where they are entitled to vote, or are prevented from visiting an election cell for other reasons, so that these citizens are excluded from the election. Ladies and gentlemen! This is so far as the electorate is unable to take part in the municipal council election when he is not present in his own community. This goes so far as the country election is concerned that the voters cannot vote in another federal state and they are so excluded from a country election. Even if now, like that, on 7th. The citizens will only be able to comply with the right of election in their own federal state in several Austrian federal states. And it is also true that the Austrian electoral card system makes a signature abroad absolutely necessary. This means that the electoral card must be given up abroad. However, if this citizen is to stop domestically, he must go abroad again in order to be able to comply with his right to vote. Federal Chancellor! That's it. You still think this electoral card system is sufficient, as you have told me in an answer to a question, no one in Austria can understand anymore! It can only be more about a Justament stand of yours. So if you cannot exercise the right to vote as a result of illness, fragility, study stay, professional or otherwise important reasons, you should be entitled to a choice of letter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Important in this context: It must be ensured that letter-election documents can be requested remotely or in writing, in order not to have to appear personally again. Ladies and gentlemen! A short international comparison, a view over the border: In Switzerland, for example, there is the possibility of a long-term search for a letter choice if you have a corresponding age or if you are bedridden. In Germany, every citizen requests letters without giving any reason, and since 1957, the choice of letters has been possible in Germany. The University of Osnabrück is currently studying options via the Internet. - That's what it looks like internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! The key question is: Do we trust the Austrians with less maturity and responsibility than Switzerland, Germany or England do their citizens? – We from the Austrian People's Party are responsible for more self-responsibility and against constraints or gallows! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the arguments of the Social Democrats, which are constantly being brought to the point that there may be abuses, I would like to point out that it is interesting to agree that there is a choice of letters in the election of the workers' chamber, in the election of the works council or in the election of staff representatives. – There is another inconsistency in Austrian electoral law. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal includes a clean and reasonable solution, which is constitutional and meets the new requirements such as the mobility of the population, the increasing number of older people, the concerns of the disabled organisations and a economical public administration. The principles of voting rights of our Constitution to exercise the right to vote in secret and in person are taken into account. It is high time our right to vote was adapted to the needs of our citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20676	Mr Dr Höchtl was also mentioned on the floor. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20698	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Murauer fully justified this request. I would like to say that the reason why this request is correct is because it is considered correct by the vast majority of the Austrian population. As far as we can trust the socio-scientific studies, we have around 70 percent of the total population for the introduction of the right of choice of letter. Because Mr Heindl would like to know, of course, how strongly the support of the right to vote is under the SPÖ election, I tell him: 69 percent of SPÖ voters opted for the introduction of the right to vote in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you want to meet the wishes of your own electorate, you must only join the requests of the Austrian People's Party! I'd say, The letter election is the modern right to vote for modern times. Let us, therefore, introduce them together at federal level, national level and community level!
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20740	There is yet another speech by Mr Wabl. However, his club has no more speaking time. No one's made any mention of this anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 971/A to the Constitutional Committee. 23. Point First reading of the motion for a resolution 974/A by Mr Volker Kier and Mr Comrades concerning a Federal Geetz, which amends the Rules of Procedure Act 1975
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20783	We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Please, Mr Dr Kier, you have the floor. Total speaking time of your club: 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20813	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can calm down Klubobmann Khol: I will not speak in detail, but briefly. This is a first reading in Rules of Procedure, which is absolutely planned. I would not have needed this first reading because matter itself has already been dealt with. They only owe this first reading today to the fact that the Committee on Budgets did not have the willingness to deal with this matter at the same time, although the Liberal Group's then request had only two articles: Rule 1 referred to the Budget Act, Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure. It has been negotiated in the Committee on Budgets for a long time and then explains that it cannot be decided. We have therefore withdrawn Article 2 and reintroduced it. And I assume that if the matter is to be dealt with in committee, it will be adopted more or less unanimously. So I thank you in advance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20843	Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20865	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have reached agreement in the Committee on the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group on this request, and we will also put it into reality at the next opportunity in the context of the reform of the Rules of Procedure. . As far as our opinion at today's first reading is concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20892	No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. I agree with Amendment 974/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1999-02-24-020-XX-NRSITZ-00159_d7e20928	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed have been brought in motions 1016/A to 1022/A. Questions 5778/J to 5822/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 25. February 1999, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is intended to hold a Question Time in accordance with § 94 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. The sitting is closed.
