ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u522	Gentlemen, I am opening the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's meeting of the House of Peoples, besides delegates, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PAR project, representatives of public information funds were invited. I warmly welcome all those present. Today's session is attended by 12 delegates, of which 4 from the Serb people, 5 from the Bosniak people and 3 from the Croatian people. Mr Ivo Živković and Momir Malić justified the absences. Mr Ivo Živković had a death in his family, his father died yesterday, let me, on behalf of the House of Peoples and personally, express my sincere condolences to Mr Živković and his family. For today's session, you received a call with the proposed agenda. Let me read the draft agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the fields of culture, education and science; (b) Agreement between the Government of the United States and the Council of Ministers on Economic, Technical and Related Assistance for BiH; (c) Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the arrangement of border rail traffic; (d) Agreement on financial assistance between BiH and the United States for municipal infrastructure and services; (e) Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Italy and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the consolidation of certain debts; (f) Anexa Agreement on the consolidation of debt between the Government of Great Britain and the Council of Ministers of BiH; 3. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 1999; 4. Draft law on BiH distinctions; 5. Draft competition law; 2 6. Draft law on archive construction and the BiH Archives; 7. An innovative report on the concession, meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe; 8. Report on the participation of the BiH delegation at the 56th session of the UNHCR Human Rights Commission, held in Geneva from 20 March to 20 April 2000; 9. Delegating issues I apologize and accept the intervention, in the draft agenda, within the second point under f) Giving consent to ratification of the Transit Authorisation Treaty for Yugoslav citizens who are obliged to leave the country of residence; I am opening a discussion on the draft agenda. Any suggestions, additions, changes to the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u524	The esteemed Presidency, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, I would suggest that the draft law on the archive construction and archive of BiH be taken off the agenda today, for one reason the draft law on the archive construction and archive of BiH, in the proposed text, is unacceptable for the RS, since it deviates from the formerly occupied position of the Government of RS. Namely, the bill is designed to penetrate the administrative and control responsibilities of the RS archive, which is unacceptable because they exclusively belong to the RS government and the RS government's resolute ministry. Therefore, we remain at the earlier position, i.e. to support the initiative for the establishment of the BiH Archives, whose exclusive responsibility would be to take, protect and preserve the archive, the archive structure of the former SR BiH and the archive structure of the Dayton BiH, which includes the archival structure created and the one created in the work of the joint BiH institutions. Therefore, the BiH Archives, i.e. the Law on Archive Construction and the BiH Archives, should be established so as not to provide for any authority or jurisdiction towards entity archives, i.e. The RS archive and the Federation of BiH archive, except for co-operation that provides co-operation in favour of entity archives. I propose that a new text of the law be drawn which will respond to the above-mentioned requirements and be in line with the conclusions that we will make in the next period. At the same time, I propose that the BiH Archives, which would be established, work afterwards within the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, through which it would be responsible for the Council of Ministers of BiH. Also, given the fact that RS representatives did not participate in the drafting of the proposed text of the law, I propose that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications appoint an expert working group to draft a new text of the law on archive construction and the BiH Archives, which would be composed of representatives of joint institutions and entity bodies, so that the RS government would propose a representative of the relevant Ministry of Science, Culture and Archive of RS. I think it would be the right thing to do, and I suggest that this draft return to work and new consultations and reconciliations. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u525	I thank Mr. Ristić. Is anyone still answering for the discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u526	Matko Kovačević, Director of the BiH Archives, on behalf of the promoter. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have presented myself and have been asked on behalf of the motionary to give introductory notes and explanations. Since he's been asked if he'll come to the agenda, I have to say that Mr. Delegate has just said this completely wrong. First, what is nice to say there is that the Archives is, in fact, continuing to work as an archive that will preserve the structure that will be built over 50 years, a building that exists in the BiH Archives. Second, to monitor, take care, and monitor construction in joint institutions. Third, he is a member of the Association A category of the World Archive Association, very powerful and he carries interstate co-operation that is coordinated and co-ordinated, international co-operation, that is, inter-archival co-operation within BiH. There is nowhere to stand, even on the contrary, we are in order for the Archives to still have a balanced management system, as well as the departments of the Council, to have it in the Law. Fourthly, your representatives, sir, have been involved since day one in the drafting of this law, so colleagues from the RS Archives. Together we had three meetings and agreed the text completely identical. And one more thing, you've told us, what is the decision of the government of the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the federal government, it's quite agreeable and it's embedded here. So agreed at the level of the profession and we made it legal with the experts of the BiH Council of Ministers from all three constituent nations, that is the last version we have agreed with these people and that is the proposal. I don't know what else the gentleman has given here, I think it's a shame that this law is removed, when he is fully in line with his colleagues from the RS archives, the profession has completely given, and yesterday at that home, the day before, also, delegates, is a unique attitude to support this law, even said that this is the right way that the other laws should come here, to train them along with legal experts to shape and to. Since we have the consent of two other governments, I think it would be a shame to take it off, because we're very late if this law doesn't pass. I have one more thing to tell you, that I, as a representative of the State Archives, am a member of the most association of councils and that through this I have received funds for education that goes to the RS as well, for staff under the same programme, that we went with colleagues from RS to a meeting where we received a complete project, made up, about revitalising the overall service. I mean, I don't need to talk to you here about the importance of this matter and the institution treated by this law, but I think it's a great shame that he's stalling his adoption, passing time, we're not gonna make it, because we're the only archive in BiH that has no law. They have federal archives or is in the adoption phase, has RS passed, have cantonal, county, archives, it's a shame that this one is so well-conceived and so well-made law is removed, that is, not to say... Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u527	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u528	That I'm going to open up a debate on the alignment of the agenda, what I need to adopt, is, and then discuss... First of all, here is a few false allegations, since I have here a stamp from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that you did not agree with the governments of the entity, do not make disinformation, sir, here. The profession is another thing, but this is about laws, and you, as an expert man, are able to apply some law, but you are also able to accept certain proposals for addition and discussion and do not say here that you agreed when you did not agree. The thing is that there is something here, there are some additions and suggestions for this law to be reworked on one better aspect, etc. Niko one says this law should be passed, but it needs to be done humanly, and that's one fact. Don't let us get into a situation where we're not telling the truth at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u529	For me, for example, a debate on this law has already opened up, as if we had adopted the agenda. Should the Law be adopted in this text or in any other text, when the bill comes, it will come out of the debate on the draft law. Therefore, I am personally to adopt this agenda, and anyone who has a comment, let it be on the draft, and what will be the proposal and if the law is to be passed, that's another thing. Therefore, we cannot go ahead before we adopt the agenda, say that this law is good, or it is not good, or it can serve as a basis for making a bill or not. First we have to adopt the agenda, then discuss it, and then, I don't mind, if most delegates don't adopt this to go into the agenda, it won't work, but I think the draft law should only be discussed when it's on the agenda, and not before the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u530	I thank you for this suggestion, Mr. Čampara's intervention. We here have one proposal from Mr. Ristan Ristić to remove this item from today's session within the proposed agenda. We also had an interpretation on behalf of the promoter, an additional explanation, meaning how this text of the Draft came about, that on behalf of the Proposer made a comment. Mr. Ristan Ristić, does he stay with his proposal? Is anyone else coming forward for a debate under the proposal, meaning a consensus on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u531	I'd just say for a little while if this house had never had a problem putting together agendas and maybe it would be a good thing if we didn't do it any further, I'm a little late for college, so I couldn't say it in college, I think, if I had been to college, we would have settled it in college. I'd like to accept Mr. Ristan's proposal. Nothing special's gonna happen in a week. If it is, I don't have a full five arguments for either one, but I think this home should work so that the less time it wastes to determine the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u532	Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't understand that we can't discuss the document, the bill, today. We've opened up a preliminary debate about the bill and we haven't actually given it a chance to discuss it at all, we're talking about it as if the draft of the law was open. The argument that wants to be made here has the full legitimate right for each of us to take it out, but let's give it a chance to put it on the agenda. We can reject it in the form of the Draft if we disagree with the form and what is exposed to it, but get the right of the public to be debated at the House. It's a minimum we can do as a first step. I think that, especially since that bill has already seen the light and received some support at the House of Representatives, I don't see any reason why we should be holding back here. We had plenty of time to teach him. We'll have time to follow all the necessary procedures in the further procedure, whether the consent of the entity government is required, or I don't know what, but I don't see any reason why here now to block one normal procedure and normal adoption of this bill, I'm talking about draft laws, and we're not talking about a bill and a definitive solution. We have a chance to change the way things work. We have a chance, finally, and in the form of plans to reject it, but to bring it into the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u533	I thank Mr. Žigić, we have heard here a proposal, a discussion, comments and opinions on Mr. Ristan's proposal. I suggest five minutes off, if we can just have a little consult. Then I give up on this proposal of mys. We have a proposal from Mr. Ristan Ristić. He suggests that this point be removed from the agenda, please make a statement. To get off the agenda, I'm like that, Ristane, and you said you asked for it, and that's how the proposal was proposed by me. Once again, I will repeat Mr. Ristan Ristić's proposal to remove the 6th item in the proposed agenda from today's session. Please make a statement. Who is Mr. Ristan Ristić for this proposal? I'm asking you to make a statement. Who's against it? No abstentions. I find it this way, that Mr. Ristan's proposal, to remove the 6th point from the agenda, to move forward, voted 7 - against the vote 5. I would ask the Jadranka to now, regarding these results of the vote, to interpret us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u534	In the House of Nations all decisions are made by those who are present and who vote. In this case, there was a vote on the agenda. Such an interpretation of the OHR was for the House of Representatives. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u535	By pleading, with this result of the vote, this item is not included in the agenda. Please let us make a statement on the full agenda. Is there any need for me to read the agenda again? Who's for the proposed agenda, with these changes, with the changes, please. They're unanimous with 12 votes for the adopted agenda. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th session of the House of Peoples I am opening a debate on this item of the agenda. Is anyone picking up? You've got the record. Any suggestions, objections, opinions, additions and amendments to the minutes? There isn't. Please, let's approach the plea. Who's for the proposed 17th session of the House of Peoples? A unanimously adopted 17th-session record. Ad.2. Giving consent to ratification Is there a need to read it again? Do you have any suggestions? So should we individually or in the package make a statement?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u536	Madam Chairman, given that I have some questions regarding the first proposed agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in co-operation in the fields of culture, education and science, I would, if you would allow, particularly this agreement to be apostrophe, because I don't know if there are any proposals to give specific clarifications or not, whether I should ask a question, but I will, in any case, ask it. Article 4 of this Agreement states. The parties will, on the basis of mutual interest, encourage learning of language, literature, other country's culture, and support the participation of teachers and students in summer language or language schools. It is not clear here whether it is language or languages, since we in BiH have three peoples and three languages, I think it should, right here says it is language, not language. You know how it is marked, and I think that in this agreement it is necessary to define more precisely in Article 1, either it is a language or it is the languages of the people. It's supposed to be, but it's not clear. It is my suggestion that this agreement should be more precise in a specific language or language.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u537	We can accept Mr. Pajić's intervention that it's not about plural, it's about unity, it's about plural, it's about language, not one language. 7 Is there any further objections to other agreements or under this Agreement? Can we plead to accept that we are pleading in a package on these agreements? Who is it for this proposal to declare the ratification of all the agreements mentioned and listed? Unanimity. I also find that this item of the agenda has been adopted unanimously. Ad.3. The annual report of the Central Bank of BiH for 1999 This report has been received, gentlemen. In consultation and preparation for this session today, it is our duty to just get acquainted with this report and to take it to the knowledge, which does not mean that we cannot hold a debate on this report or give our opinions or comments. I'm opening a debate on this report. Since we are not obliged to declare this, I must say that he was admitted to this session today and this report. Ad.4. I am opening a debate on this agenda. Is anyone picking up? I suggest we plead on this point. Please, who's in favour of the BiH Census Bill? A unanimously accepted draft law on BiH's honours. Thank you. Ad. 5. I'm opening a debate on this draft law. Is anyone answering for a discussion, comment, suggestions? There isn't. Please state the draft competition law. Who's for the Competition Bill? Unanimity accepted and this bill. Ad.6. She was removed from today's session. 8 Ad.7. An innovative report on meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the VE Practically, this innovative report you received, which means it is, practically, as well as an annual report by the Central Bank of BiH. It's our duty to get acquainted with this report. We're not obliged to declare this report, it's simply what Vlado suggests, the essence is the same. Is there any comment on this, discussion, does anyone want to get involved in the discussion on this report? It is a very important report, an important one, and let me just point out that there is a need for everyone to read, study, and see what is within this report and in the context of the process that we are persistently and very much talking about and present at the premises of BiH, to see what we do, to see what we do. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If not, we can determine that we are familiar with this report and that we have accepted it as such. The next item of the agenda is Ad.8. The report on the participation of the BiH delegation at the 56th meeting of the UN Human Rights Commission, which took place from 20 March to 20 April 2000, means, as did the previous two I commented, that I would not repeat. Is anyone answering for a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u538	Fellow delegates, we have before us this report on the participation of our delegation at the 56th session of the UN Human Rights Commission, and I don't know if any of these gentlemen who attended from this delegation are present, if anyone is present, I can see that they are not. No matter what, I have one remark. This material shows that one of the very important discussions at the conference was on basic human rights and freedoms in BiH. This session took place I see from March 20th to April 28th, and there was something happening in BiH that was not suitable anywhere in the world in the last 50 years, perhaps after the Hitlerian, fascist Germany, where one third of a nation was denied, i.e. Serbian people in RS to participate in municipal elections. It is a terrible political terrorism that has been seduced in the RS area. I don't know if anyone at that conference mentioned it, raised the question, because it's one of the basic human rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, that everyone has the right to choose and be chosen, one of the basic democratic principles of the modern world and the fundamental rights of every man. This is exactly what happened to us during this period when this session was held and I don't know when it will be held again, it says it is held once a year, but I would recommend that representatives of BiH, when they appear at such conferences and when it comes to basic human rights and freedoms of the people or peoples of BiH, that certain steps be taken to end this discriminatory decision and allow all BiH citizens to participate in the elections, to choose and be elected. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-09-0.u539	I thank Mr. Pajić. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? If there is no, please, we can only accept this intervention by Mr. Pajić, meaning, as a delegate, about the event Mr. Pajić commented. There is no need to plead, but only to realize that we are familiar with this material and that Mr. Pajić's intervention is being observed. Ad.9. Delegate questions Does anyone within this point appear or wish to participate in the debate? If not, allow me, before we bring this session to an end, and this session today is, indeed, scheduled very quickly and within a short time after the meeting of the Representative Council. I had this obligation, as chairman, to consult before the session itself that, behold, I would ask only delegates to accept this way of convening the session because of the circumstances in which we called, because of already created obligations and terms, meaning, for the College, about the Rules of Procedure of the House of People which is in the stage of preparation, etc. We have decided to respect both our obligations and the deadlines for the appointment of this session, so we have approached this way of calling, so I ask you, on behalf of the College, on behalf of the professional service to accept these circumstances in which this is called. Let me just say one more thing. I'm sorry to have to bring this up at this session. Today I had very unpleasant and unpleasant, as I say, circumstances on arrival, which means from Doboj to Sarajevo, from the federal police. I wouldn't hold you back because of the obligations that part of the delegates have, so, and I wouldn't keep you tied up for a while, but I would suggest that they be suggested and asked by the Federal Home Secretary to transfer and suggest to the police officers who are on the road, when it comes to escorts that are often on the road, so what seems to be happening on the road that it doesn't fit, this is my own opinion, not quite like it. I was in a position today, due to the time limits to attend the session, to come, to convince the police on the ground that the police, the minors with automatic weapons, are coming out of our way. So he doesn't want to accept the ID at all, nor does he want to take it at all, to read that last sentence that stands, which is the obligation of entity bodies when it comes to delegates. I'm not just saying this because of the inconvenience I've experienced today on the road, but because of all of you and all of the MPs, and I'm asking that attention be paid to all these road workers, in one entity and another, when they're on the way that their obligation is to provide help, and not that, in practice, we're experiencing such inconveniences, etc. I accept both our obligations and respect for everything that's going on on the road, but what's going on, I think it's inappropriate and publicly protesting at this session because of these inconveniences that I've experienced today. If we don't have any questions, today's session is over and I thank you for your presence. The seat is finished at 13.00 hours. 10
