ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u742	Ladies and gentlemen, honored envoys, distinguished guests, I welcome you all and apologize for the situation today, not our fault. This is where the more important representatives seem to be. So we fell to hold a session of the House of Peoples, as the highest Home in this country here in this small hall, and it seems that the atmosphere is a little bit more intimate like this. If it turns out to be successful and well, then here we will continue the sessions of the House of Peoples. I am opening the 24th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As usual, the session was invited, in addition to the envoys: representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, legislators, representatives of OHR, OSCE and Phare and representatives of information funds. Five representatives of the Croatian people, five Bosniak people and three representatives of the Serb people are present at the session. Momir Malić and Ristan Ristić justified their absence. So, the session has a quorum and can make a full decision on all points of the agenda. The agenda you received with the call. Is there any proposal to amend and supplement the agenda? One remark from my colleague, Žigić, and I think that if there is a chair, I would ask the technical service that our distinguished guests from the Institute of Audit, as well as the others, be provided with chairs so that we don't have to be on duty while we sit and discuss, and perhaps in the meantime Mrs Fatima and Ril have a little chat with the audit, so we can solve one problem, quickly if they do. It's settled. As soon as it comes to Fatima, I know it's settled. I'd ask you to study the record, so once we create the conditions, we could act faster, if there's any objections to the record, and other things that are of a formal nature to finish. While the record is being recorded, I'd take advantage of the occasion, while the chairs come, to read the agenda, so we can start working. 2 DAYS RED 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 23rd session of the House of Peoples; 2. Proposal for amendments and additions to the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions Budget and the International Obligations of BiH for 2000; 4. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts; 5. Proposal for a law on freedom of access to information in BiH; 6. Draft Law on the Ombudsman of BiH; 7. Giving consent to the Federation of BiH for the conclusion of the Agreement on the Rehabilitation of Education Loan with the OPEC Fund and 8. Answers to envoys' questions, envoys' questions and initiatives. We're moving on to the first point. Ad.1. Does the adoption of the minutes have any objections to the minutes that you have received in addition? If he doesn't, who's in favor of adopting a record like this? Against, withheld, as far as I can tell, there is no. The record's been adopted. We're opening the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The proposal to amend and supplement the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the year 2000 was attached to the proposal. I'm opening a debate under point 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u743	Dear MPs – MPs, chairman, guests, are on the agenda of the Budget Amendment – Budget for 2000. At the beginning of this year, all the instances foreseen by the BiH Law on the Institutions were adopted for 2000. As time moved on, and especially half a year, the need to make certain adjustments we call the rebalancing and to bring these movements in BiH's financial flows, which relate to external debt and the administrative budget, in line with real flows. Rebalance was made in July, and on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the House of Representatives was in August and September, so what you received today was the last instance to decide on this proposed document or to reject it. 3 The adopted budget for this year was, at the beginning of the year, 265.2 million KM, of which the external debt dropped, as payment, 187,600,000, and at the administrative budget of 77.6 million. The administrative budget envisioned funds to be allocated for salaries and for the material costs of BiH institutions, which are legally provided as beneficiaries of this budget. The revenue was intended to be its own income, i.e. The fees charged by consular offices amount to 33 million, with the difference covering entity budgets of 2 thirds, 1 thirds and the administration being financed in this year. An analysis of the results, fees paid in 6 months, showed that they did not arrive as planned and representatives of the International Fund, which are accompanying financial flows in our country together, suggested that a correction be made in this regard and that the projected revenues, related to administrative fees, be reduced to 27.6. We did it. Regarding expenditures, the IMF proposed that the reduction of the resources provided for material costs, but we at the Treasury Department, taking into account all the material costs achieved by the users in six months, were seen to be about half of what was foreseen for the whole year, and we should not have invested in reducing the material costs of as much volume as required. That is why we have then analysed the salaries by the ministries and all other users of Budget and seen that the funds that were planned for the salaries at the Foreign Ministry were not realised, that they were actually planned more than was necessary for this ministry this year, because there were no certain employment reorganisations that were to be done, nor were the open DKPs that were meant to open, in fact, which were planned for this year. Therefore, in the administrative budget, the expenditure balance for this year has been reduced by 30 million, as planned for salaries at the Foreign Ministry, to 25, with the assessment that with these funds, the Foreign Ministry can function normally by the end of the year, as it has functioned in this past period this year. The newspaper here, compared to the adopted budget, is that we have reduced a certain percentage of the funds provided for, in order to form a certain mass of funds for three new ministries, as the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH provides for three other ministries, the Ministry of Treasury, the Ministry of European Integration and the Ministry of Human Rights in this year. Thus, all users, compared to the adopted Budget from the beginning of the year, experienced a decrease in these positions. The third thing is the Border Service. The adopted Budget provided for 6 million KM for the Border Service and the funds were foreseen in this administrative budget, however, by establishing the Border Service, it was seen that the financial requirements were far higher than what was foreseen. The two countries have expressed their willingness to donate certain funds, but have sought transparency in spending these funds, which means they need to go through the budget and then it is seen that it went to the purposes for which it was given, so that we have introduced the item “Foreign Grants: 11 million”, so that the total budget for this year is 26.9. As far as external debt is concerned, I am obliged to just say that with 10 additional million, two entity budgets contributed to the name of the rate difference coverage, because the 4 foreign debt projection for this year was 1,888 marks, and in the time of payment, and today you know what the rate of dollars is compared to how we designed the budget for this year. As for the amendment to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets offered to you, I can immediately say that until now the state budget has been in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and that it is now in the Ministry of the Treasury and that this has required the amendment of the law, in fact, the harmonisation of the law, that everything relating to the budget and the law is predicted to be in the Treasury. I think so much for an introduction. For all the answers you are looking for, I can now, as the chairman mentioned the revision, say that in this rebalancing and reduction, it has been reduced to all and so is the Office for Auditing, but we also had a request from the Constitutional Court at BiH level to increase a certain amount of funds in relation to the movement of salaries at other levels in the judiciary. We have already finished with this rebalancing at the Council of Ministers of BiH and the House of Representatives, so we have not made any adjustments in this regard, but since there is a budget reserve, this House can make a decision and tell about those institutions whose functioning is necessary by the end of the year, that a certain part of the funds, for smooth work, can be intervened from the budget reserve and in that sense I think that the revision and also the Constitutional Court can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u744	Thank you, Mrs. Fatima. I thank you especially for this last one, and that means that we are, I think, all together indisputable about the fact that the Audit Office is a significant institution and that there is no reason, there is no reason why it has not already been operational, but it is never too late, in fact, better ever than never. I think it's about time we got everything we can and what we need before the end of this year for this institution to be fully operational. Are you, gentlemen auditors, satisfied with the findings or have something else, if you have, Mr. Miletić, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u745	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, the President-in-Office, the honourable envoys, I would be brief and I would not want this session to be extended because of me. I'm glad Mrs. Leho mentioned this problem of ours. I would only briefly say that we were founded in 1705, that so far we only got one tranche of 50,000 marks and that it's uncertain when we get the next tranche, that we were destined within the joint institutions of 300,000 marks and that it's now reduced to 90. I mean, if it's reduced, I think it's supposed to be a percentage cut, but it's supposed to be, in my opinion, a much smaller reduction than it is. If 10% to 20% of other institutions have been reduced, I think it took so much for us, but still, this is too much, so I would suggest that a concrete conclusion be made to know, that is that amount, and that the Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to respect it. I would only briefly mention that this is a specific, independent institution, which is with Parliament, and we are assumed by the BiH Parliament, and not the BiH Council of Ministers, and the law correctly states that the minister must not reduce the amount of funds approved by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the Office for Audit. 5 In order to achieve this independence, the Office of Audit cannot work unless it is independent and no one can blackmail this institution on that side, if it is to achieve the function for which it is established. I would only mention by the way that one of the conditions of the next tranche of credit, an allocation provided for by the Audit Office, is to remain that item. So I would ask, and I think it's in everyone's interest to help this institution and to become operational by the end of the year. So much, so if we have to, we can do more.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u746	Thank you, Mr. Miletić, I'm in a dilemma right now, and I couldn't formulate the whole conclusion right now, in accordance with your request, but I think what Mrs. Leho put forward would be the basis for you, in some way, to, let's say, ask or hire you, Mrs. Leho, and you to try to form a conclusion. We can almost adopt it in advance. There shouldn't be any problem. In principle, we have held a debate that shows that we should change the obligations they have already made, to ensure them the basic conditions they require by the new year, so that in the coming year we really..., to be the conclusion in that sense, to ensure all the conditions for the Office of Audit to enter into the next year with full capacity, approximately so. Now I don't know more precisely what figure that would be to satisfy, and not to rephrase other things, because we essentially need to adopt this budget and change, or the rebalancing consistent with the House of Representatives, the text of the House of Representatives, so that we don't have a problem for these two months that are ahead of us. Are you satisfied? Thank you very much. Who's in, is there anyone else to discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u747	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question before we go to the polls, I don't know if there's anyone outside the Human Rights Ministry, refugees and asylum here? Is he present? Yes, it is. In the rebalancing of this budget, it is normal, and the funds for the Ministry of Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum amounted to 1,900,000 KM. We know when the ministry was formed, the new Council of Ministers of BiH, among other things, and this Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Somewhere just in the period of forming a new Council of Ministers and this ministry, you know everyone, I must mention again, the discriminatory decision of the Interim Election Commission, I do not know from whom it was initiated, that the upcoming elections prohibit the participation of two political parties in the RS and exclude 160,000 citizens from the election process with voting rights. I'm just asking, did the Ministry of Human Rights, Refugees and Asylum, or did the Ministry of Human Rights react on this matter? Has anything done to eliminate such a humiliating and discriminatory decision and allow all BiH citizens to go to the upcoming November elections? It seems to me, at least I'm not aware that the competent ministry has reacted, and it should have reacted, if it deals with human rights issues, as a competent ministry, and it's known that it's one of the basic human rights and six fundamental freedoms, that every adult citizen will go to elections to choose and be chosen. That's it. If that ministry exists, it was supposed to react, if it didn't react, it didn't deserve...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u748	I would ask that this be accepted as a delegate's question, first of all, the way it works in the ministry. We are obliged to a consensus that we reach at the level of three ministers and I ask you, given their absence, as a new issue, and we promise that as soon as possible, we can even bilaterally, with your arrival, clear it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u749	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask a few questions to the ministry that proposed this document. First of all, let me say that I support the insistence on functioning the institution of the auditor, and that's one minus that they haven't yet functioned, and we've had a lot of problems until we adopt these institutions, and now suddenly they don't work. However, I will still look back on the problem of money in this budget. The question arises, how to fill the budget of BiH institutions, i.e. what are the original revenues of BiH? Here we see from this revenue review that some 27 million have been collected from taxis, I think about 27 million, that entities donated funds to BiH at the amount shown here, and that the real needs of the functioning of state institutions are far greater. I would argue that, apart from that imposed law, which was in the procedure here, the ministry was later imposed, related to income, to carry out a full analysis of where to raise funds and how. Without BiH's election revenues, neither the BiH Parliament nor the BiH Council of Ministers, nor the BiH presidency, nor the other institutions we have formed in the last four years. It is incomprehensible for me that customs go to entities, that customs revenues go to entities, and that the BiH state does not have any hire, or that, as in all normal states, customs go to the state level. The general question is, how do you ensure that the budget is charged and what are the measures? Because there's no sign of this document. What has also entered the eyes, it is that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees here has shown that the refugee program will be monitored with 80,000 marks. At one of the previous sessions, I asked a delegate question, today I received an answer that I did not read well, which includes the number of indicators of the ministry, which were delivered by the ministry, or by the Council of Ministers, a number of indicators saying that the number of refugees since '92-'95, 1,168, 750 people and that only a small number of people returned from that total. How do you respond to the mission of returning people from BiH level and how in total does this project follow the BiH Council of Ministers if there is no funds? This is just one example that I say, it is that the budget of the BiH institution, as it is, without its original incomes, cannot respond to the basic tasks and therefore ask the Ministry for an answer, how will it ensure the filling of the Budget and what measures will it take and make proposals to the BiH Presidency and to the BiH Parliament, i.e. what measures will it consider at the BiH Council of Ministers? Before I come forward with this proposal. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u750	I'd use it until Fatima came out to ask what's up with the bill next year, since we were looking for something.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u751	Can I just say a few words about this exhibit Mr. Žigić had. Today, the rebalancing of the adopted budget for this year, and I didn't think I should be talking about the problems that arise now because the revenues are not adequately regulated, because very soon the budget projection will come to this house for next year. Mr. Tuševljak, Mr. Ril, Mr. Š., who is an assistant to Budget, and I, we have already discussed this topic and we have been given our thoughts, and we have shared them with representatives of the World Bank and the American Treasury present here, and the IMF, related to the Budget projection for next year, to make a quality move in the adoption and legislative regulation, and also to Budget for next year. So, all of these shortcomings that have proved to be in the execution of the Budget for this time, we have analysed, we have seen what these reasons are, we are even talking about it, it was not a part of the agenda, but we have been informally talking to the Council of Ministers of BiH, what is it that we have to do to make the budget for next year, which we are putting together and proposing and which these days and will come before you, better for next year. So, this way of funding, this was one temporary solution, today is not Budget, today is just a change of numbers in the existing legislation and I ask you to adopt it, and I hope that you, sir, are satisfied with what I've told you, that we're seriously working on what you're thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u752	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, gentlemen, I've come out to say a few of my observations. I'm going to say right now that I'm going to support this amendment to the law today, but I'm going to say a few notes. We have, lessover, had the opportunity to see what the role and importance of parliamentarians in the world, in the states, and I think we have had the opportunity to convince ourselves of that, too. Although it is wanted and expected from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it is certainly much, meaning this was expected and likely to be expected from this next parliament. My observation in this section, when it comes to both the BiH Parliament and the financial part, would not open and I would not like to open the debate, but if these financial items are looked at, you will see what is the position and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in relation to other BiH institutions. I am not sure that a suitable place or what is expected of Parliament or what it deserves is given in that section, so I would only suggest, for the next time or for the next period, that it should try to plan these funds, within what is expected and ask the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, give the relevant importance. Second of all, Mr. Žigić will not be angry that I will make a small comment when it comes to the original revenues of the Budget of BiH and when customs are mentioned. I just want to point out that through these items and financing by entities there are these funds, which are collected through customs work, whether it's federal customs or that it's RS customs. Which means, these funds are within these funds that entities basically set aside for Budget. Whether that's enough or not, that's another question. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u753	Thank you, Mr. Ljubičić. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If it does not report, who is for adoption of the proposal to budget BiH institutions and international obligations for 2000? Who's against it? Restraint? - 2 abstentions, Đoko and Herceg. I find that most of the votes adopted this proposal. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations for 2000 As you know, the House of Representatives adopted this, and I am opening the debate at this point. Thank you, Mr. Auditors. Now we have free chairs. Is anyone answering for a hearing? He's not answering. I'm making a statement. Who's in favour of adopting this proposal? - Unanimity. We passed this bill. Ad.4. Proposal for a law on the completion and enforcement of international contracts Does the Proposer have any additions and amendments to the proposal? I'm opening a debate. If there isn't, we can go to the vote. Who is for the adoption of this law? I can see there's no one against or abstention. Therefore, this law is unanimously adopted, in the same text as in the House of Representatives. Ad.5. A proposal for a law on freedom of access to information in BiH We have a proposing, Mr. Ivo Lozančić, Mr. Tokić is missing, but it is enough to have one promoter. Ivo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u754	Mr. Chairman and Mr. Representatives, in today's materials, you have received a proposal for a law on freedom of access to information. This law was also in the draft and was in the House of Representatives. It was modelled by... standards in countries with a high degree of democracy and we did not accept amendments in the proposal, and we respected, from the debate in the draft, certain clarifications and proposals that I had completed the Bill on Freedom of Access to Information, so that we had interventions in Articles 12, 13 and 14 and in the very name of the law, because in the draft you got that this was the law, in the draft was the Law on Freedom of Information, in the proposal you have the Law on Freedom of Access to Information. On this law, as you have in the text, we have nothing further to explain, given the debate that was being held and that it has passed the voting procedure at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u755	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. I'm opening a debate. Has anyone called for a hearing? It's not. Who's to adopt this bill? Who's against it? Restraint? – So, after this vote, the law was passed – 11 for – 2 abstentions. Ad.6. I am using the opportunity to welcome Mr. Franko Orton and open a debate on this point. Mrs. Seada Paravlić. Mr. Bičakčić is away, he's the promoter, he asked that Sead do it for him, and I agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u756	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you and welcome his Excellency, Franko Orton. As you know, the draft basic law on the ombudsman of BiH has been drawn up by the Venice Commission. Mr. Bičakčić has taken over and appears in both homes as a proposer of this law. The legislator believes that the adoption of this law will be of great importance to BiH and its citizens. Real reasons include the fact that by adopting this law, BiH would place BiH's ombudsman institutions in the internal legal system. So she would no longer exist under aneks 6, as an international agreement. Then the adoption of this law would mean that BiH is willing to strengthen the rule of law and will commit itself to respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people living in BiH's territory. The second reason is the fact that by the provision of Article 14, Annex 6. The Dayton Agreement envisions that five years after the agreement enters into force, so on December 15th of this year, responsibility for continuing the work of the BiH Ombudsman and the Human Rights House for BiH will be taken over by BiH authorities. The third reason is that the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, at all its conferences earlier and also in Brussels, as a condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, required the adoption of this law by September this year. The draft, as you know, was adopted at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. It would be necessary to adopt a second reading in both homes before the elections, as it is almost impossible to pass this law in the post-election period and before 15 December. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 2.1. The BiH Constitution, under which BiH and its entities will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and freedoms, and then in the provision of Article 4.a) of the Constitution of BiH, which provides that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will be responsible for making the laws necessary for the need for decisions of the BiH presidency or for carrying out the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, under this constitution. And just a few notes, what exactly is the essence of this law? Its goal is, above all, to provide a legal framework for the functioning of the BiH Ombudsman institution. According to the Bill of Law, Frankfurt BiH should be the BiH central institution, which would co-ordinate the work of entity ombudsmans. As you know, at the time of Annex 6, there was only an Ombudsman in the Federation of BiH. Today, we have an ombudsman in the RS and there is already a great need on the ground for the role of the co-ordinator of the BiH central institution. The goal is also to level the practice of protecting human rights in the entire territory of BiH, then to keep this Ombudsman in a position to pass on cases, at the moment, to the Human Rights House of BiH, and later to see which bodies will be to protect human rights. The draft envisions the institution of the Interim Ombudsman for a three-year period, which would be rerun by a foreigner, as well as in the past period, and after the end of three years, BiH's ombudsman would serve three people, BiH citizens. The Proposer proposes to amend Article 45, which is quite incomprehensible in the current text, and at this time unnecessary, and on the other hand there is no provision for entry into force, therefore, it proposes that Article 45 is changed and that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH. So much for the introduction, if there's any questions, I'm here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u757	Thank you, Mrs. Sead. Mr. orton, will you turn around?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u758	Mr. Chairman, esteemed members of the House, it is a great honor for me to address you for the first time, as I did five days ago at Parliament's second house. I am very grateful that I have been given the opportunity to share with you my opinion and concerns about the law that will regulate my efforts and efforts by my institution in promoting the rule of law and protecting human rights in the coming years. I believe it is clear to you that the decision you will make today is of great importance to my institution and the possibility of this institution being in the service of the ordinary people of this country, as well as in the service of you, as their elected representatives. My opinion, as a Swedish judge and Ombudsman over a period of six years, with a certain European and international experience in this area, is that this draft 11 has been proposed by the Venice Council of Europe Commission is excellent and will provide this country with legislation, which is in line with those that already exist in about 100 other countries, in which this right is already established. It is true that there is nothing that cannot be improved, but the text presented is worth your sincere support, with the possible improvements of the device in light of the experiences gained from the application of the existing..., and that at this stage no further functioning of the institution, based on nothing but good domestic law adopted by the competent domestic parliament. It may be worth reminding that it is not easy to improve a law like this, and without good and fundamental knowledge and experience of the concept of ombudsman, something that has always been missing in countries where this institution has only been established or has only been functioning for a few years. I am convinced that the adoption of this law, at this moment, would be welcomed by all European countries, who would be happy to see BiH into the family of European democracy. Furthermore, such a step in promoting the rule of law and protecting human rights closely monitors the so-called “registration” of human rights. The market. Foreign investors will continue to hesitate to include themselves and their money in countries where the breach of the contract is not timely and effectively sanctioned and in which conditions cannot be reasonably assessed as an atmosphere of respect for human rights. So I sincerely hope that you, the esteemed members of this house, will contribute today to the adoption of this bill and that you will do so without any significant changes. Thank you very much. And let me just tell you that Mr. Orton's statement will be available in English and in all three local languages this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u759	Thank you very much. Is anyone answering for a hearing? If not, we thank the promoters and exhibitors. Djoco, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u760	Mr. President, here, I'm glad I finally had a chance to meet Mr. Orton, the Ombudsman for BiH, and I would also have a few questions for Mr. orton. Indeed, as far as the Ombudsman's institution is concerned, there is no point in discussing its significance for a long time, it is an institution of great importance both for BiH and for all its citizens at BiH level, however, I would only like to ask a few questions. I don't know if you've had that information that I've already talked about today and I'm talking about here for three months at this home that basic human rights and freedoms are being drastically violated in BiH. This example I was talking about is a ban on going to certain political parties and parties to the upcoming general elections, it is indeed, again, a discriminatory decision by the Interim Election Commission that should not have remained in force. If we want elections at the will of the citizens and the will of the people, it must be possible for all BiH citizens to go out freely and vote for their representatives. I'm coming, you said this just before, right out of the ordinary people. I haven't been in politics for three or four years, but really, I've devoted all my time in this 12 work to just ordinary people, ordinary citizens in this country, and, behold, is it a punishment for me to fight, indeed, for ordinary people and ordinary citizens, I'm forbidden to go to the upcoming elections, and not just to myself, again, I repeat, about 160,000 citizens with the right to vote won't be able to go to the upcoming general elections, and now I ask you, do you know anything about it and have you taken anything out of your jurisdiction to eliminate such a discriminatory decision by the Interim Election Commission and that finally the citizens can choose their representatives in the authorities? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u761	Thank you for letting me answer the question I've heard before. I don't, I don't know anything about the existence of complaints that are related to this being filed by my office, nor do I have any information about the specificity of this case, and on my part it would be unprofessional to answer your question right now, but I'd be more than happy to do so, if you could address my institution and give information and details about the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u762	I welcome all those present and I have listened carefully to the presentation of the gentleman before the present lady, although the translation was not in my language, I understand very well and finally heard that the gentleman's statement will be available in all three local languages this afternoon. If it is one of those local languages and Croatian, which is my native language, I would like it not to be called a local language. If it is a translation error, I would ask the translator not to make such mistakes anymore because it is the official language of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u763	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Is there anyone else to discuss? Who's up for adoption? I would like to appeal to turn this draft into a bill as soon as possible, if possible before the election. It's a natural matter, with respect for the discussions that have been presented. Ad.7. Giving consent to the Federation of BiH for the conclusion of an agreement on a loan for the recovery of education from the OPEC Fund The representative of the Federation of BiH government is Mr. Minister Rizvanbegović, please, ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u764	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Co-chairman, honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u765	Excuse me, Minister, thank you again to Mr. Franko orton, and I welcome him to leave. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u766	I look forward to having the opportunity to attend the effective work of this House, and I am not always in a position to attend the effective work of parliaments. It really encourages all of us that you represent. I am here on behalf of the Federation of BiH government, as the chairman said, on behalf of the president of the Federation of BiH, who is the applicant of this proposal. As you can see, we made an agreement with the OPEC loan fund. The job began on June 26th 1997, with the OPEC Fund's decision to help us rebuild the school system, however, due to complicated procedures for us, only now came. On behalf of the federal ministry, under government approval, I signed this loan agreement in August 1999, and the government ratified that agreement in July 2000, under the conditions that you have, and I don't think there's any need to read them to you. The government delivered a decision to the president of the Federation of BiH, and the president of the Federation of BiH submitted an agreement on the loan to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so on 19 October, the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives decided to approve the loan agreement. After the constitutional procedure, the approval of a loan agreement in the House of Peoples, today should also be confirmed if you agree with this. Please, honourable MPs, that you, as well as members of the House of Representatives, approve this agreement. I thank you on behalf of the Federation of BiH government, and I believe that I also convey the gratitude of children, parents and teachers who are waiting for this loan to come into effect and to rebuild 34 facilities in the Federation of BiH, a school facility, which is a university, which is a primary school, which is a high school in the Federation of BiH. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u767	I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. We're joining the vote. Who is for the adoption of this agreement? - Unanimity. The agreement has been passed. Minister, thank you, I hope that this agreement will be realised. There is still a point 8 left. Ad.8. Answers to the delegates' questions, questions and initiatives of delegates We also have new ministers, if there are questions that can be answered immediately, I welcome Minister Turković. Before Tošić took the floor, you got some answers, I got, too, an answer, but I didn't have time to read it, and I guess you're in the same situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u768	I'm not satisfied. Gentlemen of the chairman, honourable fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will give one initiative on behalf of the House of Representatives Club of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it concerns establishing diplomatic relations between BiH and the SRJ. 14 The MPs' club at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is launching an initiative to establish diplomatic relations, without condition, between BiH and the SRJ. As a start of activity, the Club proposes to exchange parliamentary delegations between the two states. I today expect this high house to support our Club's initiative, to present the initiative to the BiH Presidency and to start from all these levels at this time to establish diplomatic relations with the SRJ. I think that at this point, we are all looking at the goal of finally establishing the best possible relationship between countries with neighbouring countries in the region, in the southeast of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u769	Thank you, Mr. Tošić, I'm joining your initiative, not in the process, and to say the part of the work that should be done by those who are more relevant. I, as chairman, am giving absolute support to this initiative. Is there a need to talk about it any further? I'm, to say right, whether he insists on voting, I haven't really studied the Rules of Procedure, so I could say something about it. I don't know if it's gonna be, I think it'd be good if there was another session by the end of the term. I personally can only say my opinion, without consulting with my club, that I am in favour of finally establishing a normal order in these areas, normal, let me say, cooperation among the peoples. I think your initiative is in that sense, and that's why I welcome her, as an individual. We've never voted on the initiative so far, it's not a form of conclusion, it's not a point of different nature. Therefore, it might not be directed to create any dilemma at this point, but to, in some ways, if you are in charge of, contacting the relevant ministries and the Council of Ministers of BiH, see what was our task and procedure to implement it. In any case, the College will be in progress and we will not run away from our obligations. After all, we'll initiate, if necessary, to keep it going. Any more questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u770	Well, before I ask the question, I must once again express my dissatisfaction and disappointment, twice, at the last and last session of the House of Peoples, I have asked a certain question, Mr. Vedran said that it was passed on and trusted, but, behold, you from the Interim Election Commission, I don't know who there, probably Mr. Beri is deciding on everything, haven't entitled to provide me with an answer, the reasons for the ban on coming out of citizens and political parties to the upcoming general elections, so here, now I would like an initiative and to the Human Rights Minister to have the ministry, as the competent ministry for the protection of basic human rights and freedoms, initiating this issue with the relevant authorities, i.e.e., the OHR, the I would like to have a temporary election commission and so on the other side. And, now, I'd read, I don't know if you got, Mr. President, you from Mr. Prlić a memo in front of the Foreign Ministry, addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 15 In addition, we present to you a letter from Mr Viktor Barbarosi, a member of the permanent delegation of Parliament of Romania in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative, proposing to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that, in light of recent changes in the SRJ, it notifies the chairman of the Hungarian delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative, the consent of the SRJ delegation to be called as an observer at the Budapest Assembly on 27 and 28 October of this year. This initiative is, therefore, this assembly and this home, and it was also necessary for the House of Representatives to notify this agreement, because such an official memo from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you, as you know, is being held on October 27th and 28th, and our agreement is also required.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u771	I didn't win.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u772	This is what the CEI delegation received, Mrs Ana Havel, Mrs Mara Perkanović and Mr Tarik Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u773	So I would suggest that we notify that consent, if it's already requested.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-23-0.u774	I'd say this, given that we haven't won, to empower the College, if possible, not to stop just because of that, I don't think there would be any obstacle. Do you agree with this proposal's conclusion? Any more questions? I thank everyone, especially Minister Kurtović, who has been to each of our sessions. The seat's finished at 12:30.
