ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6014	Dear Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 24th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I propose that we first listen to the Bosnian Herzegovina anthem. In addition to the MPs, the session called: the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the presidents and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, were also invited representatives of the public statement funds. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the House of Representatives. According to our service report, there are 24 representatives present. The absence of the session was announced by lawmakers: Ivo Mijačević, Branislava Jovanović and Ibrahim Spahić. Gentlemen, you, as well as our guests, have been invited to the session to make proposals on the agenda. At point 4, a technical error was subsidized that Mr Ivo Divković, the draft law on freedom of information instead of Mr Ivo Lozančić, so I ask you to respect this as an official apology. And I apologize for the delay in this session, which was, I believe, an objective reason. Before I move to the debate on the agenda proposal, I am obliged to meet you that, in the meantime, following the appointment of this session, I have received a letter from the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Alija Izetbegović, asking that we put on the agenda a proposal for a law on filling the vacancy of a member of the BiH presidency. The BiH presidency also delivered a new text of the law, requiring urgent consideration. You have that text. In the meantime, we also received a proposal for a law on the financing of political parties. This morning, a session of the College of Representatives was held. We agreed that, in addition to the points you received in the draft agenda, the following points are also discussed today, in addition to the agenda: Proposal for a law on filling out the vacant seat of the BiH presidency, the proposal for a BiH Presidency and the Bill on the financing of political parties, legislators Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović. These, gentlemen, are newspapers compared to the draft agenda you've already received with the materials. 2 I have, gentlemen MPs, another important announcement for you. Namely, a letter from the Office of the High Representative arrived at the address of the members of the College, which, among other things, appealed to the Council of Ministers of BiH and to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to step up the activity to adopt a series of legal acts addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers for giving an opinion, as well as a draft law to be adopted by the Council of Ministers. This morning, a team concluded that the 25th session of this house was convened on August 29, 2000 at 11 o'clock. All materials delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH will be placed on the agenda of the session and will meet the prescribed procedure for consideration at this house. I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal, along with the additions we have.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6015	Honored gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, at a session of the BiH Presidency held on July 14th of this year, during a debate on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the reconstruction of the public information system in BiH. The BiH presidency has expressed dissatisfaction with the current way of transforming the BiH public broadcasting system, with the conclusion that it is a slow pace for the reconstruction of BiH Radiotelevision. According to my information, all jobs related to the reconstruction of the BiH public broadcasting system, in the last 14 months, since the decision of the high representative established a body to monitor this activity has not been respected. So, never has any deadline set by the body for the transformation of the public broadcasting system been respected, and this was found by the BiH Presidency at this session. Meanwhile, on the BiH Television, at the very least, strange staff-political developments have taken place, and in this connection, as an MP in this state home, I would like to ask and suggest that the meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should include the item of the agenda, which would read the Information on the reconstruction of the public broadcasting system in BiH, with a proposal for the conclusion of this home. I believe that this job must be done in a transparent manner, including the state parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I believe that the transformation of RTV BiH, with the establishment of all necessary legal entities, which will take over this area, cannot be exclusively the right of the transitional administration, i.e. the bodies in transformation, in so far as they do not, according to the constitution of the BiH Presidency, do their job in adequate time, and the BiH Presidency has found that the transformation system is in crisis. At that session of the Presidency, too, the Bureau found that it was necessary to include the Council of Ministers in the transformation process and I think that it would be a convenient opportunity for us to have answers at this debate, which would be at the House of Representatives, to have questions about the dynamics of transformation, the essence of the transformation, as a state parliament, to know that, by including the BiH Council of Ministers in the process of transforming RTV BiH and that, as the most responsible MPs, the most responsible people in this country, we have information about this and that we can give proposals for possible solutions to the general good in BiH. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6016	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, it is my pleasure that today's session is also attended by a number of ministers from the BiH Council of Ministers, particularly the Minister of Human Rights and Refugee Affairs, and in this context, in view of the dramatic situation, related to the open prevention of refugee and exiles, which are taking place in a series of places in BiH, which have escalated in Janja, to these measures to seriously challenge the implementation of Annex 7, of the session, which has been submitted by this minister, the competent ministry, for information on developments in Janja, and the activities of the competent ministry to overcome the return blockades that have a very pronounced character lately. I expect, of course, that Mr Špirić, the deputy minister, will also have a lot of information about it, because I believe that it is well involved in these events, and therefore the possibility of resolving these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6017	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up? Shall we give the lady a head start? Mrs. Mara Perkanović, then Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6018	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, to refer to Tokic's wish to set the agenda for the situation in Janja. In parallel with that, I would add that the same debate is taking place on the bočinja and on the part of Sarajevo on Vratsa.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6019	For the second or third time, as I recall, we removed the ratification of the Treaty on the State Border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia from the agenda. At this last session, it was the conclusion that this session must be placed on the agenda of the agreement, asking the BiH Presidency to give an opinion in connection with the Agreement, but we agreed, if you remember, it does not say in the minutes that, if that opinion does not come, that this agreement will be put on the agenda of today's session. I ask the College first to explain why it is not put on today's agenda even though it is in the conclusion, and I suggest, regardless of the opinion of the College, it should still be put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6020	Thank you very much. Who else is answering? The explanation, I don't know how much it will please you, in connection with Mr. Divković's debate, we stick to the strict principle of putting everything on the agenda which passes in the regular procedure. Whether this part of the job was done correctly, I'd like my secretariat to make more detailed information, if you're looking for it. So, we put everything that came from the Secretariat as points of the agenda that are in the procedure, so please, number one will be the agenda as we did at the College, it's already a regular practice, like we did at the 4th College, or adopted, will be made available to you, normally, and your proposals that you have now made. Is there anyone else? Mr. Tokić? With this updated agenda, along with these two points that we at the College have also adopted, and you will get it, if we adopt it clearly on the table during...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6021	Since in your amended order that you have provided us, as the College, immediately before this session, you have a agenda point relating to the Law amending the Bureau members, I have understood so much that such a law is proposed to enter the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure, I warn you only, as a College, or as chairman, that it is necessary for the motion to declare the reasons why it is going through an emergency procedure, and that the House of Representatives should declare whether it accepts these arguments, and only then to possibly be included in the agenda, I am merely saying business.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6022	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Is there anyone in the BiH presidency that can give us this kind of explanation? So, unfortunately, we have no one outside the BiH presidency, and it is clear that we will declare the agenda as it is here. Please, since no one is answering for a debate on the agenda, I am asking you to let us know who else is čaršimamoviti. Here you go, Mr. Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6023	My fellow MPs, the Honorable Presidency, I apologize for being late, so here I am, before the vote is done, I would like to make some additions and suggestions to the agenda. First, I think it is commendable that we have received several agreed proposals from the Council of Ministers at this house today, and that is proof that it was good to choose the Council of Ministers of BiH, because we already have some legal acts. However, I believe that the Council of Ministers of BiH should carry out its tasks and tasks that this House has given him and that the agenda should be extended in this respect. At the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, several draft laws were sent back to the BiH Council of Ministers for seven days. We have not yet received, at least in writing, any answers, however, I ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH be made known today, or, if it is not declared, to put it on the agenda. So I'll count the laws, see the 23rd session of this house. That's one. Draft Law on Ombudsmans; 2. Draft law on interstate and inter-entity communications; 3. Draft law on interstate and inter-entity rail transport; 4. Draft law on the financing of railway infrastructure; 5. Draft law on the transport of railways; 6. A draft law on inland sea navigation. 5 In addition, last session we had a ratification of the state border contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. This ratification was not carried out because of the BiH presidency's opinion. We asked the BiH presidency to come forward in five days. With that in mind, I'm asking that point be put on the agenda. I know I wouldn't answer later, I know this could be a major agenda, and therefore I propose, if the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency did not give these answers, that this should be included in the agenda, and that this session be held in two extensions, with the second extension of this session being no later than July 31st this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6024	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6025	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, we have also received a harmonised Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH. It is a law that has long been in circulation in the parliamentary procedure and which has arrived in this form from the BiH Council of Ministers and the fact is that it has arrived today from the BiH Council of Ministers. Respecting this fact, and given the importance of this law, I propose and also call on MPs, since this is not about extensive matter, to make an effort to get acquainted with some newspapers in this law during the day and to put this proposal into today's session. I suggest that this proposal be on the agenda for today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6026	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr. Tokić?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6027	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Genjac, Mr Ivo Divković and I as MPs of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have for more than two years had a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents in the parliamentary procedure, which is a permanent refusal of this House of Representatives and Council of Ministers. If the procedure is respected, then today, possibly, with me thinking that the agenda should not be extended, but rather to schedule a new session in a few days, including these points that we had, that this implies a fundamental obligation, that the BiH Council of Ministers should say whether it has come up with some new mind, in terms of the law, or that it accepts this long-standing SDP initiative. In this context, there are no conditions for a shortcut to be passed the text of a law that we simply didn't get, and we didn't get a statement about the law that was already in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6028	Is anyone else answering, but please don't call me five times or three or four times. The point is the agenda, we're sticking to it pretty much by now, but here, please, think of what you have to say, so once you say, don't go out three times. Here you go. Is there another six? Can we make a conclusion? Okay. We're closing the agenda debate. I will try to paraphrase, so the first proposal will be the usual proposal of the College, which you have as we have listed, I can read to you. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 23rd session of House of Representatives 2. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement 3. Draft BiH Election Law, Proposer of the SDP Club of Members of BiH 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act 5. Proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency 6. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties 7. Draft law on freedom of information in BiH, legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Lozančić 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the People's Republic of China on Trade and Economic Cooperation and 9. Answers to MPs' questions and questions This will be one proposal for you, and then we have suggestions, I will paraphrasise, and please recommend that I be corrected. Mr. Kadić made a proposal, a reconstruction, information on the reconstruction of the work of the BiH Television. Mr. Tokić asked for information about events in Janja, from Mr. Raguž and Špirić, if I am not mistaken. Mrs. Perkanović asked for the same information for Sarajevo and other places. Mr. Čaršimamović asked to be placed on the agenda of the 23rd session, so he taxed them. Mr Genjac asked for a law on BiH documents to be put on the agenda and Mr Tokić also asked for the same bill to be put on the agenda, but at the next session. Mr. Divković, excuse me, please, this is my failure, BiH and the Republic of Croatia, so the border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. I'll put all these proposals to the vote, and you'll confirm them, how best you think they are. 1. College proposal with this agenda, how did I read it now who's in favour? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who is for this proposed agenda? From RS, who's in? Of the 35 present – 27 voted in favour – 5 votes against. The Federation of BiH 15 voted in favour. From RS 11 for. So this agenda has been adopted. Now we're going to put your proposals individually. Addition of the agenda. I'll try to compare your suggestions as I recorded them, and you supplement me, please. Mr Kadić suggested: Information on the reconstruction of the work of RTV BiH. Mr. Kadić, do you agree? Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6029	I suggest that the agenda point reads. Information on the reconstruction of the public information system in BiH, with a proposal for a conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I take it that, I've heard the remarks, is it for this session? For this session, with the BiH Council of Ministers tasked with including the Presidency in what I asked, with the mandatory presence of representatives of the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers tasked with taking part in a slow process in the transformation of the public information system into BiH, namely the transformation of RTV BiH. I insist at this session, with one assessment that, I think, when it comes to BiH TV, all deadlines break through, except for the express and barely welcomed personnel shifts on TV. All deadlines, in the last 14 months, when it comes to the transformation of the public information system and RTV BiH have been breached, except for the barely welcomed personnel shifts of prominent people from television. I think the situation is such that the BiH Parliament must be involved in the debate and help, along with the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, in this very serious business, which is one of the most interesting jobs for this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6030	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić. I personally agree on the findings. If we can absorb this point in quality today, you have the right to think about it as I do. Mr. Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6031	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6032	Thank you very much. We've got this, too. Please, I'm putting this item on the agenda, as Mr. Kadić has just read to you, I'm putting it to the vote. Who's to get her into the agenda, along with this agenda that we've already adopted? Who's in? I'm asking everyone. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? This proposal, of the 35 present, was voted by 11 – 9 people voted against it. From the Federation of BiH 8 voted in favour, from RS 1 for, this proposal did not pass as a item of the agenda. 8 The second proposal was Mr. Tokić. Information about the events in Janja, and let me just a little bit, Mrs Perkanović asked for information in Sarajevo and some other places, so if you will, I think this can be voted on as one point if you support it. Okay. Do you agree, Mrs. Perkanović? So, information on events in Janja and Sarajevo and other places, agenda item, throughout BiH. Make a suggestion, Mr. Spahić. Do you agree, Mrs. Perkanović, or are we going to put the proposals in special? I beg you, this point, the way it is, the confusion is. Who's in favor of this point, Mirko, go ahead. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6033	Honorable Members of Parliament, esteemed guests. I think this is totally confusing, and neither is it defined, nor is it known what it wants, and what it doesn't want. One yells about the situation in BiH, the other yells about this, the third yells about it. Let's formulate what the agenda is. Is there a reporter? And does he have any material? Niko one argues that every MP has a right, give it a precise definition to see what we really want.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6034	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić, you've reached out. But I'm asking you not to open a debate that we're done with right now. I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6035	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, indeed, not to impose any confusion, the issue of returning refugees and displaced persons, is the issue of human rights, which is in the power of the BiH Council of Ministers. We have a BiH Council of Ministers and a competent ministry. We have dramatic events that all the media are writing about and I support here, I have cited Janj as an example, but certainly, events in Janja and Bocinja and other places and plans of the ministry's activities to overcome the situation, because we have clearly organized resistances to the return of refugees and exiles. I think we should talk about it in this high house. I do not think there should be any special preparation, because I am convinced, I said, that Mr Špirić and Raguž are well aware, involved in this problem and in solving this problem, and I think it would be truly opportunised to go over this problem, dealing with some issues that are allegedly more urgent than this issue. In that context, I don't mind that with this explanation that I've already said and, here's the additional information that I said, that this item of the agenda bears the name janje, here, and Bočinja and all other places, Srebrenica, or any other places where we have equivalent examples of preventing the return of refugees and exiles. I think we should talk about it here, not at press conferences, not elsewhere. We need to talk here, all the parties here should say, especially the parties that participated in the election of ministers and deputy ministers. Here they should ask their minister what's going on. I want to ask, as a legalist, the ministry of what is happening and what are they going to do to overcome these circumstances and, please, don't make one of the most serious proposals and bring one of the most dramatic problems in this country down to 9 relativating and not knowing what they want. Maybe some people know what they want. I want information to be provided here, and those who prevent the return of the refugees and the exiles, those who participate in the organization, also know what they want.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6036	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić, then Mrs. Perkanović, but I beg you, don't let us reopen the already interrupted debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6037	Since we have voted on the agenda, we are now voting on the completion of the agenda. Mr. Chairman, when you took away this whole BiH, I realized that the Ministry of Human Affairs and the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons will report on this, which is why they are formed. They were not formed to be an addition to the Council of Ministers, but formed to report on the state of responsibility, and I would therefore ask that we do not make any major policy and introduction of it. We are simply asking, and I want to be quite clear about this, that the refugee and displaced persons minister and human rights minister present information directly to the BiH Parliament. If we find that our ministers do not have any information, have no official information, and we find that the entity ministers of justice or interior ministers and local authorities do not cooperate with our human rights ministers and refugees, then we will ask the question or credibility of people in entities and local communities or the credibility of our ministers. There's a very precise question here. There's no introduction to that. I don't see any reason for anyone to object. We should've gotten that without asking MPs. It would normally be in a situation like this, in a country that counts on the shared role of the BiH Council of Ministers and the legislative authorities, to receive at the beginning of the session an intervention, urgent request, not what we have now begun to reason on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, after all about passports, all the honour of this proposal and an urgent proposal for the urgent election of members of the BiH presidency. In a preventive sense, this is most urgent, because as far as citizens are concerned, we are in the service of citizens, we are not in the service of the BiH Presidency, nor customs officials, nor the MUP, but we are vice versa, nor those from whom we should seek information. And I need the ministers to stand up now and say, "I have information, I have no information." I know something about it or I don't know. And not to wait for us to vote or we won't vote, whether there's an answer to that or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6038	When it comes to events in Janja, when events are in the bottle, when events are in Dobrinja, they are not just events in those places. They are happening, Malten, in all BiH cities. Here it is not a problem in organised resistance, but in an unorganised resolution of refugee issues, which are not systematically resolved and not dealt with normally in the legal procedure. Many irregularities occur in the work of these committees, which we still do not know who they are responsible for and who they work for.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6039	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Balta answered, so Mr. Raguž, so Mr. Čaršimamović. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6040	Mr. Chairman, I, of course, must now say that I support opening such a discussion of these events, however, you have concluded a discussion of the amendments to the agenda. We're starting the vote and you're constantly opening the discussion, both at the last session and at this session, on the agenda when it's over. Please vote on the proposal tabled by MP Tokić. He made a proposal, just like I did, and you're gonna let him vote on this. This is how we're going to get through the agenda until we announce the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6041	Thank you very much. We interrupt the debate because we've already closed it. Who is it for Mr. Tokić and Mrs. Perkanović's proposal to discuss this problem that happened in Janja, Sarajevo and other places? Who's in? I'm sorry, Mrs. Balta, unfortunately, I had to interrupt once, but I warned you not to reopen the debate, but I can't forbid you to go out. I'm sorry. I have to break up with someone.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6042	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6043	Please, the College agreed to give the Minister a word before agreeing to this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6044	I thank the chairman and the presidency, I welcome the distinguished home, all MPs, and in favour of determining this home, about this intervention in terms of supplementing the agenda, allow me, since my name has already been mentioned several times, the following. If you think you will talk to the minister in such a way as Mr Spahić did, and I do not have the opportunity to say, then I think it is not an equal position in this parliament, then let me be allowed after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6045	Okay. Please, who is it that, Mr. Tokić, I ask you, since this item of the agenda is as you suggested here, therefore, problems in Janja, you mentioned Sarajevo and other places. Who's in favour of your proposal? I'm asking you who's in favour of putting this item on the agenda? 11 Who Is Against? By entities, who's in favour, I ask from the Federation of BiH? From RS, who's in? Of the 35 present – 27 were for, one was against. The Federation of BiH 18 was in favour – Republika Srpska 10 was in favour. Therefore, this proposal, as a item of the agenda, has passed. Thank you very much. We have a proposal from Mr. Divković. Ratification of the BiH and RS border contracts. Who's up for this proposal? No, I'm sorry, um, I'm sorry, please. Ratification of the contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 34 present – 23 was in favour. From the Federation of BiH 20 for, from RS 3 for. This proposal did not go as a item of the agenda. We have a proposal from Mr. Čaršimamović. The laws that were held at the 23rd session, I cannot tax them here, nor do I have needs. I'm asking you, who's in favour of that proposal to make your laws a part of the agenda? The formulation of the proposal. I'm not opening a debate. There won't be a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6046	It's not a debate, it's just a formulation of the proposal. So, the exact part that you said is that these are laws that have been removed from the 23rd session, are MPs Bičakčić and MP Silajdžić. However, I asked the BiH Council of Ministers to declare why within seven days they did not give their opinion on the proposed laws, and if not today, that this must be included in the session of this session's agenda, which will be held no later than 31, continues until 31 July this year, it was my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6047	Who's in favor of this proposal, now you've heard it authentically? Who's up for the proposal, I'm asking everyone? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? According to the results of the vote, of the 34 in attendance, 11 were against – 12. Therefore, in the first vote, this draft agenda did not pass in the first round. We didn't even vote on entities this time. Please, we have a regular way of voting. We only get results when we have both votes, please, we're not going into technicals now. We have a proposal from Mr Genjac, the BiH Document Act. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From Republika Srpska, who's in favour? 12 Out of 33 present, 14 voted in favour – against vote 11. From the Federation of BiH 14 for – from RS 3 for. Therefore, this item of the agenda has not been adopted either. Mr Spahić, we're not opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6048	Before the vote, I have the right.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6049	Mr. Spahić, take your place. You'll have a chance later. Now the debate doesn't open. You'll tell me later that I... and Mr. Tokić made a similar proposal, and for the next session, right? Who is to propose Mr. Tokić, this same proposal on amendments to the law. Please, Mr. Tokić, there is an objection here from the College that we really cannot vote for the agenda of the next session. That's what you'll get. I'm not opening a debate. Okay, that's information. Thank you very much. Therefore, the final agenda will be given to you in writing on the benches, and we will move to the first item of the agenda we adopt. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate for number one. Who's calling?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6050	Dear Chairman, since you haven't given me a chance to ask a principled question, this record allows me, of course, as well as delegate and MP questions, to ask you something very precise. You, as chairman of this House, have committed during the debate on the work programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that all proposals that come in line before the BiH Council of Ministers, when it comes to laws, will be put in the process, in the work programme of this parliament. That's why I don't understand. I just want to tell the team about your attitude. Why did you put the motion put forward by Mr. Genjac, who obviously did not pass the College, because you voted, you were abstentioned. You have not set yourself up according to what you have committed, as a College, to the BiH Council of Ministers and to the BiH Parliament. I am interested in why something that was agreed on by the BiH Council of Ministers, as a law, as a proposal on amendments, highlighted as urgent, as this was said of these passports, was not the first to explain only the Council of Ministers of BiH and why you, as chairman, in this case rejected your own commitment and the word you gave for adopting this parliament's work. I only ask you to keep in mind in the future that we have agreed that when the Council of Ministers of BiH comes out with one proposal, it will be given a chance to put the proposal on the agenda, urgently or later. I don't see any reason for us to keep spinning a procedure that doesn't lead anywhere. You're a college. You received from the BiH Council of Ministers, at the very least, you had to have one position on it, and by the way, the record is very well supported. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6051	Every man's right to be abstention or to vote for or against, according to his conscience. So that's the answer. We're at the top of the agenda here at the session. Please, as far as the 23rd session is concerned. Is there anyone else who can get back to you? Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6052	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, on page 4, in the minutes, I pray that the wording which states that Sejfudin Tokić has proposed that the House of Representatives declare the trust of Mr Mirko Banjac, because he is, as well as then, going under quotes, “one of the People's House Speakers, contests the Constitutional Court decision” to go to the formulation, because of the views expressed in his discussion, that we do not list, because I am not just on this, we have a stenogram, because I am not just a stenogram, we have a stenogram, just talking about the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, but a total of the views expressed in the discussion. And in that context, if quoted, that formulation stands on page 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6053	I think this remark can be adopted, to literally quote what is said, according to the stenogram. Are you satisfied, Mr. Tokić? Thank you very much. According to the stenogram, his words will literally be quoted, Mr. Tokić. Thank you very much. Who is for this record with this note. Who's in? So, of the 34 present, 31 is for. So we absorbed the first point. Thank you very much. Ad. 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Election Law Draft, a proposal from the SDP MPs' Club You have written on your agreement tables, i.e. no agreement reached at the College. It was voted the way it was in your report. We here, since we are still working on the provisional Rules of Procedure, by the way, to give the information, that the Rules of Procedure we adopted have been printed and he, hopefully, will already be at the next session, and formally declared, that is, we will be working on it. We're going here to the second round of voting. You understand what this second round of voting means to you. So I'm asking a question. Who's for the draft election law, I ask everything? Who's in? Who's against it, I ask everything? According to the entities, I ask from the Federation of BiH, who is against it, because the second round of voting is, who is against the question, from the Federation of BiH? This is the second round. From RS, who's against? 14 This is the second round of voting, that one may not be confused. A total of 34 present – 19 voted in favour – 15 voted against – the Federation of BiH 5 voted against, and 10 voted against from RS. Therefore, this proposal has not been passed. Thank you very much. That concludes the second item of the agenda. We're going to the third point. Ad.3. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act is the BiH Council of Ministers. We've already got the amendments. We're not reopening the debate. We've already done that. So we have amendments that you have in front of you, right? You've got it in front of you. Therefore, we need to make a statement about the amendments. Does the commission have a report? Here you go, Mrs. Alagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6054	Madam Chairman, gentlemen Members of Parliament, guests, we held today a meeting of the Working Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs and we had five present, four reasonably absent. The Commission fully accepted the proposal submitted to us, with discussions and clarifications that satisfied the members of the working committee. We believe that this proposal on amendments to the BiH Customs Policy Act is one upgrade in this area and we have received information that the commission in charge will continue to work to make this area as legal as possible, and we know how important this area is for the state of BiH. I'm just here to report that we've also established our commission and elected the chairman, since we've worked with deputies, or vice presidents before, and now we've elected three members as president, vice president, first and second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6055	Thank you very much. Please, this is where the motionor has to be made known, and it is necessary to make clear the amendments that have arrived here. Before Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6056	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I don't understand this approach again. This is about the bill and the debate on the bill is open because it is quite logical to discuss the bill. I expected the proposaler's representative to say what he thought was necessary to say about this proposal, and then we should hear, first of all, the proposaler's opinion, whether or not the proposaler has accepted the amendments and has not discussed the amendments at all. If the promoter did not, as a body, discuss the amendments, and the proposal is here by the Council of Ministers of BiH, we cannot hold a debate here, as the motionor must be made known. I will retain the right to discuss the content of the law afterwards, and this is now just an observation to direct the debate on how it is governed by the rules of procedure. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6057	Please, in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6058	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree entirely with the methodology Mr. Banjac said, with another conclusion that, unfortunately, amendments to the amendments to the Customs Policy Act we received yesterday afternoon, that is, during the meeting of the House of Representatives. In view of this fact, the BiH Council of Ministers was not familiar with the content of all amendments, i.e. it did not have all the amendments that MPs had, as a parliamentary right, used to contribute to making as much quality a law as possible, i.e. to adequately implement a change that would reflect the interests of all BiH citizens. Given, too, that during the day, the BiH Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is visiting BiH today and that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers is busy with the protocol activities and the Council cannot now meet in a pause, I also accept the resolution that all the amendments are being delivered first, I would ask, so that the Council of Ministers of BiH can take its stand, because this morning and that we could plead to Mr Banjac's amendments, I am not sure that that would be enough, given that we have received some more amendments now during the House of Representatives' meeting. If you want, we can also elaborate. I can also give certain views of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, but I'm not sure it'll satisfy the rules of procedure that you want mandatory. So, as a solution, I propose that all amendments are actually delivered so that the BiH Council of Ministers can be made known about each of the points and amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6059	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Therefore, the only option is to postpone this point for the next session until we have all the material and the whole procedure, hence, until the Council of Ministers has declared it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6060	I accept that we do not declare ourselves to the law until I get a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers on Amendments, but in addition to the amendment I made, I would say a few words that the BiH Council of Ministers could be better defined in favour of the amendments. I was just asking to delete one word, it would turn out like this if it wasn't a big change, but, please, if we leave this word in Article 18, which changes Article 162 to point 3. then no customs payments will be released all reconstruction and reconstruction projects financed from IDA loans and grants, in which BiH or entity participates in financing, because if it stands out to be complete, then only projects financed by IDA loans or grants would be released from customs payments, and everyone else wouldn't. I remember, I don't know how long ago, there's more than half a year where we've given consent here to one of the five agreements on the use of these loans. None of these agreements had 100% credit funding. Each had either 10% or 30%, now I don't know by heart, up to 30% of the participation in funding and other investors. Under that other, they're domestic. In order not to get into a situation where, because of the regulations we adopt, we cannot use those 16 privileges, I would ask the BiH Council of Ministers to have the understanding to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6061	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6062	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to express my personal protest in the manner of the House of Representatives. We keep repeating the same practice, that we are removing important laws for BiH from the agenda because MPs do not respect the rules of procedure. The amendments refer to the session itself, however, and this is possible in exceptional situations and we do not have a Council of Ministers who can give us an answer at the session itself. This is how we postpone important laws from session to session, and afterwards, this same law happens to us at the next session of Parliament, and we, therefore, are delaying, not fulfilling our function, one consciously, I would say, by approach. That is why I present my personal protest in this way of work and I call on Members to work their amendments and their proposals in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, however, there is also the possibility of giving it at the session itself, but therefore I call on the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is responsible for this Parliament, to be present and to give us answers at the sittings itself, so that we can pass these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6063	Thank you very much, Mr. Čaršimamović, I think everyone is deliberately joining this criticism, it is on our account and on the account of the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6064	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we have, I have answered, since I am a member of this committee, because we have no amendments on the commission, we have only discussed the text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. However, looking at these amendments, I think it would still be pointless for us to take this off the agenda today, leave it for the next session, and that this could be agreed here with the legislators... the amendments and with the representative of the Ministry of Trade, or the Ministry of Foreign Trade. I see more that these amendments, except to say some, have given some clarifications and more precise definitions and that these amendments, if we look at Mr Banjac's amendments, I don't think Amendment 1 Article 2 should be accepted, because we have many privileges for foreign investors and many others, and the state's revenues should be at least that 1%. Therefore, I believe that this amendment should not be accepted and rejected. As for Amendment 2, I think he can be accepted. It can be accepted. I know that in Western Europe, at passenger crossings, there's no store of this type, but there's no reason because it's a customs-free zone and there's no point in having it. It makes sense where passengers go outside the customs zone, which is mostly an airport or if they are coming out of the European Union. Therefore, the amendment clearly defined it, so it could be a store at the international airport and could be a shop on its way out of BiH, which is under customs supervision. I think that amendment can be accepted, too. Amendments 19 and 19.b. explain the same specific issues that are related to the Criminal Law, etc. I think we can easily accept them and we can end this debate. As for Mrs. Muminagić's proposal, I think we've given a lot of discounts and that's a lot of light to us, because, nevertheless, this law defines some kind of economic policy in the country. We are mainly affected by reconstruction and reconstruction projects by foreign companies, because they are practically free from customs, and domestic firms have no chance of showing up in these tenders, for several reasons, and now we need to define how to delete it completely, and what if only 10% is a donation or some favourable means, and 90% of domestic participation, and we have there that we are military, police and all other burdens on customs laws. Therefore, I do not think that this amendment should be accepted and that we should end this debate and accept this law as I propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6065	I didn't mean to say, I still don't think an individual can represent the Council of Ministers of BiH and probably not take the right to be found in that role, but I will, since there have been words here and about the amendments that I have submitted, don't force me to open a debate about why article 5 was introduced because I'm going to have to tell some truths. The truth is, since Mr. Tokić is already forcing this to be a shop-removing thing, instead of, gentlemen, pushing out the mouse that came into the house, we're tearing down the house. If there are abuses, then they should be sanctioned, and I've made the amendment quite precise as to how it's done. Comparing us with Western Europe, as a customs-free zone, is nonsense, and I want to bring here a CAFAO report on the control of these stores. It is known why they are located only on international airports, I know why and I know which stranger has already entered the international airport, as a privileged person, to do these jobs. Don't do this to the citizens here. One million KM, and I'm asking for a report to be brought here, is revenue from the entity's budgets from the work of these stores. We, like the Kolegijum, don't know why the other two are silent, but there's a complaint from private and official persons, a representative of the firm, to see why it's done. I want, gentlemen, a detailed report and the CAFAO's findings and I want to see how in this crisis today, in this misery, in this misery, our common, in a difficult situation, BiH is denying its own revenues to the budget. Why do you do that? Who can explain that to the BiH citizens. The same store employs 10 or 12 workers in each. They are gone, one is only in RS, the rest are in the Federation of BiH. So, don't think I'm talking, but why can they be in Slovenia, how no one forbids the Slovenac to build their own state that they think they should office it, so they're here in the Balkans, in Europe, I don't know, however we want to, we'll put them wherever we want them. As far as I'm concerned, what Mr. Rakić was saying about Amendment 1. It's income and customs, I don't slow it down, but here it went, I just want to say it's a relief to whoever's free of customs, because he's got a reason he's freed, because he's already been treated either as a social case or as a threatened person, so he's free of customs. So, please, I just want to say how he was treated, why it happened. If that's a budget waiver, too, here, I'm willing to give up, there's no problem, if it's in our interest, and I think Vito's right, if it's infuriating funds into the budget, I'm in order to get the funds into the budget, because we need it, we have big problems. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to still take quite final, quite 18 clear views on my amendments. I want it to be the Council of Ministers of BiH. I want to ask some more questions after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6066	Dear fellow Members of the BiH Council of Ministers, I would like first to commend the Council of Ministers for passing this law within a short period of time, especially because this is complex matter and involves making some more documents arising from this law, and they are very important for the current business of all entities in our country. It's about tariffs, etc., so I don't get into professional reasoning. I would suggest that there is no way to remove this law from the agenda, because the International Monetary Fund has brought definitive views and they will not accept certain things, whether a lot of libite to reach other measures, after which we will probably have to, without debate, or without debate on amendments, of course this law is not final, but it is certainly a solid basis for the adoption of final acts in the field of customs policy. We had proposals on the commission regarding equalising the rights of domestic and foreign investors. However, this law leaves a deadline of one year for foreign investors, the same regimes remain, and that within that year and for domestic persons, solutions will be found which will not be discriminated against in those rights. With this in mind, I believe that the issues raised and my colleague, Banjac, should be considered in this House and see what is most optimal for us as a state. There is nothing to be underestimated, but I certainly suggest that this is not removed from the agenda, that the Council of Ministers of BiH declares what it can accept, or what it cannot accept in the debate at this session. I would once again commend the proposal for this law, namely, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6067	Mr. Minister, please, just let Mr. Genjac make his suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6068	One possible suggestion to get out of this situation after all. Of course, there is a clear need for the BiH Council of Ministers to say its own court on all amendments, and it is clear that the need for this law to be adopted as soon as possible. That is why I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers, however, respecting the chairman's protocol obligations, hold a session during the day and give its opinion on the amendments, and that we move on to the next points, until that statement is received.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6069	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6070	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we here have certain amendments that we can consider and which in one version or another 19 we can accept. However, the abolition of duty-free shops, free shops, at the BiH border, was an ultimatum and one of the conditions set by the International Monetary Fund of BiH. So I wouldn't suggest we discuss it, so that's one of the measures they've been looking for since 1 January of this year, but we've given the draft law, which we've predicted, why we haven't adopted so far, it's also a matter of tolerance for the IMF. But let me tell you that it's strictly required and there's no deviation from it, that means, it's one of the measures that the IMF has put very tightly on, as it has set entities to harmonize taxis, taxes, etc. The task of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly was to implement the amendment of the law, to abolish certain benefits, and also to take away the discretionary right of the BiH Council of Ministers to free one of the customs duties by its decision, ad hoc. I'd like to ask you to keep that in mind when we have a further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6071	The replica has Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6072	Please, as an MP, I would like to see this written ultimate request and the explanation of this request and to explain to me why they do not put it unultimally in Slovenia. And the second question, how is it possible to do this ultimately on the Sarajevo Airport, but a person named Hajne ma moved in. You don't know, I, you see, I know. Heine May. You know that. So, gentlemen, someone ultimatically says there is no income in the BiH budget. It's not that, so we know what it is. Look out, second thing. The workers who are there will now be on the street. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6073	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? I'm closing this debate. We have two suggestions. One is the proposal to vote on Mr. Genjac's proposal, please formulate this proposal. In the course of the session, this item of the agenda is referred to the BiH Council of Ministers once again, to wait for the report, and if it arrives, we return to this point of the agenda, and now we are going to the next point, since we do not have complete material here. Who's up for a proposal like this? Well, then there's no agenda point. The amendments have arrived, as we have said. Who's against this proposal? I have information that we don't have to vote any further. Of the 32 present, 25 were for – 1 vote is against. So this is the conclusion he made with this agenda point. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 20 Ad.4. The proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency is proposed by the BiH presidency. You know the situation about this problem. So I'm putting this item on the agenda. Material, you all have. What you get, what it has, it's what you get.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6074	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, allow me, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, to present my views on the proposal for a law to fill the vacant seat of the BiH presidency, which the BiH Presidency delivered by an urgent procedure. I'd like to make a record of exactly the following things. In an explanation of why this law is urgently to be passed, it says that the chairman of the presidency, I remind you, on 6 June of this year, that I resigned from my post as a member of the BiH presidency. The assembly has not been informed by any act that the chairman of the BiH presidency has resigned. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is next. That BiH Presidency Chairman Alija Izetbegović announced his resignation. I must, indeed, have a memory at this time and remember that Mr Izetbegović has repeatedly announced his resignation, and so far, so far, we have no legal act, paper, on which a member of the BiH presidency, any of the members of the BiH presidency, has resigned, so that this formulation is simply not true or this paper moves in the narrow circle of the family of the said BiH presidency and the co-chair circles, which is not measured for this high home. I therefore ask the chairman of the House of Representatives to deliver the text of Mr Izetbegović's resignation, which is listed here as a document. We didn't get that document, if anyone has that document, I'm willing to take it from anyone, including Mr. Raščić. Next, I don't think there's a basis for the urgency of passing this law. Why? Because the entire election process is regulated by the rules of the Interim Election Commission and this issue is regulated by the rules of the Election Commission. There is an urgent need to pass an election law, a whole electoral law, and this is a condition for admission to the Council of Europe, not a partial resolution of the day-to-day political interests, any political group. I remind you, this issue has been treated and resolved under the existing rules of the Interim Election Commission, and the fact that certain political parties are not satisfied with some of the Interim Election Commission's solutions does not mean the right or legitimacy to change these rules in a partial manner. In this context, if we establish this practice, we can expect a dozen initiatives on the existing rules of the Interim Election Commission, which, I believe, neither in this case nor in other cases, the OSCE, as an institution in charge, will allow, but if this precedent is made, we can certainly submit initiatives that are not acceptable to us, as to the SDP, related to the current interim rules in the electoral process. The urgency is a little dramatic. I have tried to convince this high house that it is more urgent to see what was in Janja, more urgently to adopt a whole series of legislative projects that have been waiting for more than a year in this House and that resolving the status of one BiH presidency member, 21 already resolved in the current legislation is not a priority. Of course, it remains that those who feel that this is a priority, without coming to this session, without explaining why the House of Representatives needs to be discussed urgently, explain the next days, the week, until November, after November, they don't have to do it, why this is so urgent. The constitution of the proposal, the existing law, dear ladies and gentlemen, I know that some of you are sitting here and when I told you similarly that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH is unconstitutional. In his first member, he talks about special meetings of the House of Representatives, and in the following members he shares the House of Representatives, yes, yes, he shares the House of Representatives, so he says that only some members of the House can vote in the House of Representatives. What kind of paradox from the party and BiH presidency members, which so declares integrity and constitutionality of the functioning of BiH's central institutions. These provisions are opposed to Article 4. The constitution says: “All decisions The House of Representatives makes most of the votes of those present and voting”. No segregation. There is no possibility that in this House of Representatives any decision can be taken by contesting someone to declare that decision. That's unconstitutional. That is, and not to mention, against all those conventions, etc., which are incorporated into the BiH constitutional justice system, therefore, against Article 4. The BiH Constitution. But of course, in order not to stand without reason to the public why the BiH Presidency, so dramaticly, so urgently, is five minutes ahead of the session determined to pass such a law which is not constitutional and whose urgency is at least questionable or whose provisions are opposed to the existing rules on the implementation of the election process in BiH. It's very simple. There's a new election coming up. A new composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly follows, and there are parties and structures that are afraid to convene the new Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. As representatives of the SDP, it implies that insisting on passing this law simply means that those who are ready, for the sake of day-to-day political games, make these precedents, acknowledge in advance that they will not be in this system after November as long as they want. We are also ready to talk about revising the anti-constitutional decisions after November, and you choose to go through the Constitutional Court of BiH, you choose the voting machine, which has already been agreed, to be quite clear, this job is not memorized. It is not in line that Mr. Banjac, who, as recently as SDA spoke of today, would raise the issue of his responsibility for the previous discussion, so special statements were sent, so there is no such thing now, he kindly says there is no problem for urgency nor because there is no member of the BiH presidency. Do you remember the expression of the same gentleman's face when there were no members of the BiH presidency, according to some other laws that were important to BiH. It was a dramatic insistence to take it off the agenda, because of the public, I say this, that it should be taken off, that no one should put the law on the agenda if there is no promoter. They still echo the words of some MPs here. It doesn't matter here now. Because of the coalition love of the SDA, HDZ and the SDS, we will go over it and vote this proposal, please, gentlemen, but we will be against this and we will do everything possible to avoid the realization of such games in these unfair, daily, seamless games.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6075	I see that and I respect that, please, respect the fact that the agenda has been adopted, that the MPs, at the time of the statement on the agenda points, had in 22 respect of all the circumstances, respected all the facts and simply the fact that this bill is on the agenda and, please, to respect this fact, we are having a debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6076	Gentlemen, this may be more commentary than the answer to a previous discussion of the bill's proposal, I would just like to ask my answers or my thoughts on the questions asked. First, whether we need this law, and I think we need it, because there is a legal need to be a replacement of the presidency, or a member of the BiH presidency. We have no such legislation and I see no reason why it would not be in separate laws, including, normally, that we need electoral law and that it should be. When it comes to urgency, it's a matter of personal perception of life and survival in this world, you know. The matter of urgency is related to the fate and life of people. If we believe that fate is determined that a man can die at any time, then the urgency of such a law, because of the importance of the function performed by a BiH presidency member, is unquestionable, that is my opinion. What is most important and what I can agree in part with MP Tokić is the issue of constitutionality, and I would suggest, before I give the discussion, that the Constitutional Commission declares itself on constitutionality, and here's why. The solution in the way of choosing and segregating the home is exactly the same as the solution in the rules of the Interim Election Commission, and if that is the case, then we cannot support the Interim Election Commission rule, because it also supports segregation, and if it is a matter of constitutionality, then we need to ask the question of constitutionality both on this law and on the Interim Election Commission rule. So, I agree in part, it's constitutional matter, I'm not a lawyer, and I suggest that the Constitutional Commission of this House sits, draws conclusions on it, but at the same time considers the constitutionality of adoption, which is the rule of the Interim Election Commission, that's mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6077	Dear Presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs/allegates, I will present several sentences on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club, concerning this law. I wouldn't speculate whether the law should, whether it shouldn't, that's something to discuss. However, this article 7 in this law that speaks of this special assembly, which will be elected, then convened by the new assembly, after the election of the president, or someone who will replace the president, is unclear to me. It is unclear, namely, what a special congregation is, and another thing, it is unclear for me that someone who has already been elected should be re-elected in a special congregation. The BiH party stands in positions for a new BiH presidency member to be elected directly in the elections, as predicted by the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6078	During the adoption of the Interim Election Law, this possibility of resigning or being premature, whether because of sickness, or because of death, or from someone, does not matter which reason, comes to a situation like this that someone leaves his post. 23 If no one has responded to these rules of conduct of the PIC, at the time it was passed, there is no right now to pass a new law to the election commission law, the Interim Election Law. You can't change the Temporal Election Act that's worth as long as it's worth it. So I don't see why we're discussing it and what we're trying to do with it. We want to change PIC rules.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6079	Replica, Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6080	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I would use my right and ask this home to protect me from declaring Mr. Tokić. Now and in the future, I would kindly ask Mr. Tokić not to use my name except in quotes, not in his political disqualifications, and unless I am protected from this home and the institutions of the BiH state, I will also find a way to ask Mr. Tokić in another way. Therefore, I would also ask Tokić not to mention anyone's family here and not to open up the manners of the talks that are important to him and his political ideas, and as far as fear goes, no matter what the elections may be, Mr. Tokić, there will be no trial day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6081	Mr. Kadić leaves it to Mr. Deretić because he was first registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6082	Dear fellow President, honourable fellow Members, I will make a very decadent statement here under this bill of law. First, formally, truly, I expected that a respected colleague, Kadić, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, would state the position we have taken on the Constitutional Legal Commission. I will once again be free to appeal to the chairman to obtain the materials in due time. In particular, I received this bill before the beginning of this session, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, I did not have time, I read it during the duration of this session and in that sense, I have to be here and here, as well as on the Constitutional Commission, therefore, I have to object. As far as the bill itself is concerned, in any case, one issue has been regulated here that has not been regulated by the BiH Constitution, therefore, it is obviously a legal void, which was necessary to settle, because there is an objective need. It is a proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of a BiH presidency member. I'm just going to apostrophe Article 2 here. And regardless of how this bill came on the agenda, I will personally vote, as an MP, in front of the Radical Party of RS, for this bill, for the simple reason it is based on the provisions of the BiH Constitution. Why am I particularly apostrophe? For the simple reason that in the Electoral Law, which we had in the first version, which was proposed by the OHR, whose official proposal was the delegate Ljubičić in the Council of Peoples, was literally the same 24 way that the choice of members of the BiH presidency and in this variant of a large number of MPs, the Federation of BiH was against such a choice of members of the BiH presidency. It now turns out that such a way of electing and filling members of the BiH presidency is absolutely under the law. So here, first of all, I think of the BiH Constitution and I will personally vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6083	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, the proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency, as a representative in this House and chair of the Constitutional Commission, I was given today before the meeting of this House and I and for this reason, I, as chairman, did not schedule a special session of the Constitutional Commission and the Constitutional Commission did not discuss this issue. We, therefore, have informally talked about him, but the formal session of the Constitutional Commission has not been held. The House of Representatives may ask any, including the Constitutional Commission, to make a statement regarding a certain item of the agenda, and that, Mr. Chairman, if requested by the House of Representatives, the Constitutional Commission will do so. There is no doubt that there is a need for a solution, i.e. by resolving this issue, but if we accept the credibility of the OSCE and the right to determine the election of the election rules of the Election Commission, then this issue, however later, and still unpublished in the Official Journal of BiH, is resolved. Namely, in the Official Journal of BiH, issue 18 since 11 July 2000, the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission have been published, and the election rule regarding the replacement of the Bureau member by the interim electoral commission has been adopted subsequently and has not yet been published in the Official Journal and we have only as a statement in the paper, and we do not have that rule yet officially published and we do not have it in hand. The fact is also, what Mr. Tokić said and what can mean in this whole process, in a political debate, is that we do not have the resignation of Mr. Izetbegović to whom in this invitation, or letter, an explanation of the urgency of this law, is being called. What is, however, perhaps the most significant here at this point is the following and, of course, we all see and what is likely to be the source of the biggest problem and what restricts all of us in terms of attitudes, and this is also the proposal of the BiH Presidency on replacement and published in the paper by the Interim Election Commission. By reading the surface, they are controversial from the constitutional position, with the BiH Constitution. Therefore, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, if the House so requests, I will put this on the agenda, but I can tell you very precisely now, without the position of the Office of the High Representative in connection with the constitutional founding of this section, which applies in the way of voting in the PSBiH House of Representatives, and OHR is the supreme interpreter of the BiH Constitution. I'm not sure we can pass this law. In particular, however, the question is, if we do not adopt this law, which is the authority that can suspend the provisions of the Interim Election Commission, unless it is in accordance with the BiH Constitution, but that is already another issue. To conclude, we already have a decision by the Interim Election Commission to replace the BiH presidency. We now have a proposal for a specific law and I think Mr. Čaršimamović's argument, because the law, in the event of death, resignation or any other way, points to a certain urgency regarding adoption. The constitution will be evaluated by the Constitutional Commission, but, very openly and directly, 25 I ask the House of Representatives' position on the constitutionality of this proposal, as well as the decisions of the Interim Election Commission, by the Office of the High Representative, or the High Representative himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6084	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, it would really be good if we were constantly principled, insisting on some things, but I would not now, insisting on constitutionality, first of all, not some things, but very concrete things. The truth is, I would like to remind you that this was on the agenda about three or four months ago, when we were just beginning to discuss the draft of a permanent electoral law, and that because it was said that this issue would be covered by permanent electoral laws, we removed it from the agenda, or rather delayed it. We haven't come up with a draft of a permanent electoral law, and it's probably gonna take us a while to have that permanent electoral law. Not getting too far into the background of what can bring some BiH presidency member to either resign or in any other way not be able to perform his post, I think we should settle this issue. Let's play the background, whether it's manipulation or not, and I think that question should be settled. It is quite certain that this law, if we adopt it, will be for single use, and for that use we should have. I'm just asking the MPs if it's better if those things that are legal, not if it's better, but if they even accept that someone outside this house is adopting legal things. This issue would be absurd in other circumstances, in other areas, but this issue is very relevant for the BiH Assembly, a question I have been asking for two years. Now let me go back to this bill. In Article 1, I really believe that this should be deleted by "special sessions". Which must be a special session. It could be a regular session. And I have two remarks, one on Article 4 and Article 5, but before I say those remarks, I would like to refer one rebuke to the office's service, as it is called, neither do I, members of the BiH presidency. An illiterate act from that service should not come out. This act would have to have both a point and a point and everything else in the place where there should be, not to mention the ambiguity of expression and extra words. For example, in Article 4, look, for me absurd sentences. Perhaps I did not understand it, he says: “If a member of the Bureau, elected from the territory of the RS or one member of the Presidency, elected from the territory of the Federation of BiH, each member of the House of Representatives, is elected from the same entity, as a member of the Bureau. Each member of the House of Representatives, elected from the same entity as a member of the Bureau’. What's that? He should probably stand elected from the same entity, this being deleted, stands for a member of the presidency, whose seat has been emptied, perhaps to give one vote. So a member of the BiH presidency, elected by the entity, can give one people. So the bottom line is that any member of the House of Representatives, a member of the Bureau, can give one vote. Maybe I'm wrong, here, maybe I'm illiterate. Article 5 states that if, if both members of the Federation of BiH presidency happen to resign, here, it is one fiction, but it is set, then it is said that one round of voting will be held. It should probably stand for one round of 26 votes. So for each of the candidates from the constitutive nations one round of voting and one vote at a time, this is how it turns out that they don't know how to vote any further. I don't know if I'm right here. So here you should stand for one round of voting in Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6085	Honorable representatives, guests, the fact is that we got this material today. The fact is that we are about this material, that it will come, today heard the fact that we know what this material contains. So the justification that we don't put this on the agenda today, or we don't vote on it, should not be just because we got it today. That's one of my principles. I, therefore, think we should pass this law. I support it to be brought forward, given the complete situation that we all know and that we shouldn't be talking about right now. I personally support what has just been said that certain technical errors need to be corrected here, and among other things, e.g. There is no constitutional basis. But the constitutional basis exists and all those who have considered whether or not exists here, I would like to read one member, part of the member, Article 5 of the Constitution. Any vacant seat in the BiH presidency will be filled from the entity concerned in accordance with the law adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think I've said all of this, but in the end, I've got to tell Mr. Tokić one thing, too. Namely, speaking of this law, he said very bad words. He said: “These wicked games will not participate.” To mention the term "unhonorable games" about the adoption of this law is at least unserious and very bad, very ugly. I remind myself that this law has given the BiH Presidency and if we are talking about dishonest games, then I wonder who he meant when he talks about dishonest games. Really, this isn't how these words should come from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6086	Replica, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6087	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I have been very clear in my questions, trying to respect the Rules of Procedure here, the requirement for the motion to explain why we urgently need to explain this, to bring this law, and to ask a number of concrete questions, instead of answering those questions, I have received, with the exception of my colleague Tarik, some qualifications, which simply do not stand, you know, Mrs Havel, it is unfair that the MPs who until yesterday insisted that members of the BiH presidency have to sit there, have their own authorised promoter, or that he who comes and says that the proposing is authorised, have it written, signed, because if it is not signed, he cannot be trusted, that today, without any problems, he thinks that everything is OK and that this common parliamentary procedure should not be respected. But here, quite clearly, but I really think that there is one political agreement here, which is clear to everyone in this room, and it is the principle that in the House of Representatives, before parliamentary elections, tries, past the procedure laid down by the rules of the Interim Election Commission, 27 by the BiH Constitution, to provide a place for some of the people who are close to those co-chairing circles and it does not last from now on, it has been since we voted, since you voted for the Council of Ministers of BiH, since you agreed at the last session, it will last until November of the month. I don't think there's much honor here from this aspect of respecting the procedure set out in the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. We swore in this high house that we would respect it. It's impeccable to swear and not stick to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6088	Replica, Neimarlija, and then Mrs...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6089	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, I expected someone to respond to this previous discussion by counterpart Tokić, and I am grateful to Mrs Havel for warning of an absolutely unacceptable language and qualifications in Tokyo's discussion. For my part, I would rightly like to ask the MPs of the SDP on the subject of Tokyo's discussion, not on this latest announcement, but on the previous discussion. Tokić began his discussion by saying he is performing on behalf of the SDP MPs' club. I ask the question to the SDP MPs' club, whether it really is behind Tokyo's discussion, or whether it is behind the next one. First, behind Tokic's qualification, an introductory explanation, along with the bill we received from the BiH presidency, that this is supposed to be an explanation. Of course, I'm also giving up the dark work, I'm not questioning the right of the SDP to accept that argument, to reject it, to challenge it, etc., but I'm asking, therefore, the question is, is it supposed to agree with the qualification, that this is supposed to be an explanation in an act that we received from the BiH Presidency? Furthermore, I am asking SDP MPs, since today this is not the first case that counterpart Tokić knows before the vote how we MPs will vote. Last time, he ruled against SDA MPs for a vote that has not yet been done at all, and very specifically, he has made clear today. Today, he did the same thing, establishing, of course, this coalition of SDA, HDZ and SDS, all accused us of pleading, or voting that has not yet occurred. And the result of that vote, which has not yet occurred, has been characterised by the result of an unfair game. I ask the SDP Club, respecting the circumstances in which this home works, respecting the need and fellow Tokić and MPs of the SD... to use this pay phone politically, whether their position of the club is that they know the future, that they know our thoughts, or that they actually degrade our vote, the results of our vote, and then the vote, which we haven't done yet, characterized by the wicked. It is absolutely unacceptable to characterise people's statements in the Parliamentary Assembly as honorable or dishonest. It's a right and each of us is using the right to vote yes or no. This qualification, this is how Tokic's regulation of the future, for us, the other MPs is repeated and I ask the SDP very seriously, is they behind it to speak on behalf of them Tokić, whether it is available on behalf of them, therefore, by their knowledge of the future, absolute knowledge and results of the November elections, as well as the results of our vote which has not yet taken place. 28 If they knew, I would ask to make a statement so that I could be determined according to the political practices that this kind of behavior implies and which we know very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6090	Is that an answer on behalf of the SDP Club or a replica? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6091	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really expected that when Hilmo came out, he would answer some of the questions, instead, we received a series of unencipile stories and ask questions to the SDP Club. Where did you come from, Mr Hilmo, the right to seek a statement from the MPs' club, past the procedures, past the commitment and attitudes that I have expressed here on behalf of the SDP Parliament Club and from where you are entitled, Mr Hilmo, to twist words and formulations. I am still standing at the point of view, my formula of honor, honor, based on the constitutionality and procedure of respecting this high house, and as far as I was concerned, unfortunately, Mr Hilmo, for ten years in this House, unfortunately, you voted, pleaded, acted and worked, not according to the forecast, but by a clearly recognizable formula and by my prediction you did not even ask the question that you would ask in public, the question of Mr Banjac's responsibilities, but, of course, you could be expected to ask me, you are too predictable during these ten years, and it is quite clear that you can't get out of that cliché. I wish I was wrong in '92. '90s and '90s. When you were hugged doing all the work you're doing right now, not so hugged, but very synchronised, I'd like you to at least leave it by November. But obviously, you personally or your party, I'd like to ask you the same question, you can't get out of that cliché. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6092	Mrs. Ana's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6093	Ladies and gentlemen, given this very unpleasant situation, the unpleasant words about the wicked games, I am asking you for half an hour's break and in that time the Secretariat, to get us exactly what Mr. Tokić said and that we have here, to see in what context he was talking about unfair games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6094	Doesn't mean the break's on. We'll just have two replicas, which are announced, and after that. Mr. Baković, Mr. Neimarlija and Mr. Malkić, we will agree afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6095	The discussion, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I thank you for the words and so little I think, many speak, come out two, three, four, 29 times, so I said I have the right to say something at least once. I'd like it to happen again, but as I've often said here, that what we put on the agenda, that we do it and move forward. There are people here who love living in virtual reality, but in real, actual reality, it's their tragedy. I think it's one horror in any sense, and they shouldn't impose such attitudes on us, and they should respect themselves, they have the right to do so. I think, the law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency has normally come to the agenda and I think we should normally treat it and process it. No one forced us, no one tricked us into coming here. In the Constitution, in the current Constitution of BiH, this law and this kind of thinking of this matter has a foothold, at least for now, until the election law that would be under the auspices of the OHR, and perhaps which would be the ultimate legal authority or something, the supreme legal matter, perhaps in that case, would be refuted by the BiH Constitution, but that is the future and we don't need much to burden ourselves with it, but for now we have to respect this and I think we should process this matter. Secondly, it is not fair at all, it is not honorable to mention or mention Mr. Izetbegović here. Is this about one of his wishes, possibly this or that shift in service, resignation, etc.? What he wants or doesn't want, it's his basic discretionary thing, and we don't need to go in there, we need to do this the way we can and the way we need to. What a future situation will be when a new law is passed that, as I say, may be puking, in a legal sense, everything, it's a matter of the future and we don't need much to be burdened and I think that many people here who go out don't always need to bomb us with some of their political obsessions, some of the burdens, some visions, some of the announcements of a judgment day. Whether that day of judgment in the next elections will come for us in BiH, we who belong to HDZ or those SDS or SDA, we will only see it, but it is a matter of the future and I don't think it's nice to be burdened and that we always have some fears, etc. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6096	Every answer, as a replica presented, I tolerated it to the end. Completely even, all MPs use their right to replicate. Mr. Malkić and Mr. Neimarlija. Mr. Neimarlija, replica, Mrs. Rađević's replica, and after that we agree on further work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6097	My fellow MPs, I am now addressing the MPs of the SDP and I am asking them to make a statement or not. Do I have the right to ask them as members of the SDP Club? Since this scheduled half-hour break, I think it will have enough time to make a statement about it, because counterpart Tokić, who, since we've been here in Parliament, has at least since I've been here, I know that more than any other MP, in his discussions, called the parties and addressed the parties when it was appropriate and when it was not appropriate. So he took away my right to address SDP MPs. I expect them to answer that question, do I have the right to speak to them? Thank you very much. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6098	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, if I've been in a dilemma so far, I'm really not any more now. If any elections are announced for once in the future and if the House of Representatives session is scheduled and Sejfudin Tokić comes out for the pay phone, then one thing is absolutely certain, the session, or the assembly will also be empty at the border of overall human behavior in general, regardless of what people it is. And I went out to say I'm protesting, or I have two replicas. Mr. Tokić told Mr. Mirko Banjac, who was not present at the time, so with his permission I take the right to protest, that he was very hypocritical, etc., about this law we're talking about, blessedly pleaded that he could and not repeat what he said, I'm only protesting, I really, during today's session, and I haven't been anywhere, not one second away, I haven't noticed that Mr. Banjac asked for words about this law, and that he spoke. If Mr. Banjac said something else about this law elsewhere, then we really don't need it here, especially in the absence of that man to speak, it's one thing, we don't even know what he thinks about that law and whether he's going to answer and whether he's going to participate. The second line is that Mr. Tokić said there is coalition love between SDS, HDZ and SDA. I, as far as Mr. Tokić is concerned, would not respect it so much that I should react to it at all, but since it is repeatedly repeated here after this pay phone, and the people's saying “three times told a lie, it becomes true”, then I decided that, however, I was reacting. Mr. Tokić, if the SDS signs with any political party agreement or coalition, the public will be informed about it, as the public is informed in the political work of a party, and if you, Mr. Tokić, represent a piece of that public, then you will be informed. Secondly, if you do not resist such qualifications, I will seriously consider asking in writing, and I will consider the possibility of the Rules of Procedure to give you public notice of your behaviour for this speaker. As far as the law is concerned, I'll remain registered for discussion when it's my turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6099	In the meantime, I only got two applications for the replica, Mr Spahić of the GDS and another replica, and that's how we're going to end this part.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6100	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the chairman and guests, I would like to say that, unfortunately, we are not in a position to participate in the debate that will follow that break, because I will not be there, but I would like to say my position, that there will be no later interpretations about it. First, if you carefully looked at this letter that we received from the BiH presidency and about this law, there were different statements by two members. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6101	Mr Spahić, you have announced a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6102	Yes, it is. Mr. Deretić and Mr. Kadić, as members of the Constitutional Commission, expressed different views on the constitutional inadequacy of this law. I, officially, on behalf of the GDS of BiH, ask that the Constitutional Commission sit on this break and that a clear, consistent interpretation of the position of the Constitutional Commission, because this is expected of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as a normal procedure in accordance with our rules of procedure. That's the first thing. Second thing, since I won't get a chance to talk, I want to make it quite clear how I feel about it. Constitutional changes, based on the Constitutional Court's decision, are in force, according to international representatives and that it exists in our BiH Constitution. The only democratic procedure is a direct choice. Another thing about this document, if we adopt it today, with changes and additions, etc., this document, unfortunately, will not take part, Article 7, please read carefully the statement by Mr Izetbegović, which is consistent and correct. Mr Izetbegović announces that a newly elected member takes office on October 12th when my term as chairman of the BiH presidency expires. In Article 7, the first sentence, if a member of the BiH presidency becomes vacant within 30 days to the date specified for the next elections, for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which is 11 December, exactly 29 days, fills the post with the chairman or vice-chair of the BiH Parliamentary House. So I just wanted to draw attention to that fact and say that BiH has always, as you know, enough wisdom and resolution, but I demand that the Constitutional Commission clear this up and come to parliament with its position.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6103	Thank you. Mr. Banjac and Mr. Kadić, two replicas and over.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6104	I'm not going to replicate, I have no intention of replicating, I just want to say, that's what Mr. Tokić said about me, so you know, and secondly, there's one folk proverb about such discussions, which I won't say, for a short period of time, and you take the one you think fits that story. And let me tell you something else, that story about the HDZ coalition and the SDS and the SDA is in Banja Luka and Prijedor, I can tell you in action. There's Mr. Tokić in the coalition with those he says is SDS. What's that for? He thinks it's far to Banja Luka. It's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6105	Ladies and gentlemen, in his statement a few minutes ago, Mr Ibrahim Spahić said: "The members of the Constitutional Commission, Deretić and Kadić made different statements about this." Not so much because of Mr Ibrahim Spahić, because he has the largest number of words per unit of time, but because of the public and the journalist who will convey it, I want to say it again. The Constitutional Commission's meeting on the issue was not held, so all statements by members of parliament are individual statements, not 32 positions by the Constitutional Commission. And because of that, it is, therefore, true, it is in a certain way an answer to Mr Spahić's incorrect claim that he failed to listen to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6106	Thank you, given that we have a request from the HDZ Club for a half-hour break, that it is certainly lunchtime, in half four, we continue, so for an hour, in the meantime, a meeting of the Constitutional Commission, to establish a constitutional basis for law-making. There are currently 26 MPs present, therefore we have a quorum for rightful decision-making and quality work. [[PAUZA]] First of all, I will call upon a member, or president of the Constitutional Commission, to state his position on behalf of the Constitutional Commission. Mrs. Havel signed up. After that, we continue the discussion. Mr. Divković answered for the discussion, so Mr. Kadić, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6107	The esteemed MPs, in this break, held a session on the conclusion of the Constitutional Affairs Commission on the assessment of this law, the constitutionality of the law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency. The Commission found that there is a constitutional basis for law-making that would regulate the situation when it is an unfulfilled member of the BiH presidency. The Commission did not enter into the content of the law. Therefore, the constitutionality of the members of this law, i.e. the constitutionality of the law as a whole, will be decided by parliament. So there's a constitutional basis for law-making. This constitutional basis is contained in Article 5. The BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6108	Dear colleagues, I will, in spite of the SDP's stated position in, in general, concerning this law, present some, in my opinion, in the content of the law, here, we have now heard the position of the Constitutional Commission that there is a constitutional basis, but the content of the Commission has not entered, and I will speak something about the content of the bill itself which we have received. In my opinion, this bill, at the very least, derogates, I'd say, the legal institute of this house, and here's why. The law says first, in Article 1, that special sessions will be held, and then in Article 4. where it explains how it will work, about clarifications, I would now say, not to quote a member, but to clarify it, this means, if, in particular, it is the replacement of members of the BiH presidency, i.e. the president of the BiH Presidency, Mr Izetbegović, then the gentleman, our colleagues, MPs from the RS do not need to come to that session, because they neither vote nor participate in the work. Also, if a member of the RS presidency is elected, then all of us in the Federation should not come here because there is no need, we are not asked the other way around. The question now arises, by what act do we make of this house, I would say, illegal groups in the home, which decide on behalf of the home? Neither the Interim Rules of Procedure nor the 33 Rules of Procedure that we have brought, yet to be published, foresees such a thing. We are in violation of the fundamental principles on which this home works, and I think that this law is so made that it is simply something that should not go through this house in any way. I also join those who claim the law should be passed on replacing members of the BiH presidency, for these reasons that are listed, it is undeniable. I am also a great advocate to resolve this clearly, generally, by electoral law. But the way this is proposed, it's unsustainable, because it's simply a violation of all the existing acts that this house is doing and the way we're being built. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6109	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the more careful companions of this home did not miss that the report from the Constitutional Commission session was filed by Mrs. Ana Havel, because it was a little illogical to confuse the public, as vice-president, of course, because I was one of the members of the Constitutional Commission who considered the Constitutional Commission this time, in connection with this law, had to define the essence of the law itself and the provisions, or the constitutionality of certain provisions of this law. Unfortunately, Mr. Tokić and I stayed in the minority session of the Constitutional Commission, in connection with the entry into essence and I hold that in Article 5. The BiH Constitution explicitly states that any vacant place in the BiH presidency will be filled by the appropriate entity, in accordance with the law passed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. So there is an express constitutional basis and there is no doubt about it. However, when it comes to certain provisions of this law, in particular the provision of Article 4 of this Law, I believe it is explicitly contrary to Article 4, under d) of the BiH Constitution, which says that all decisions, in both homes, are made by the majority of those present and voting. Any variant, legal, political or any other division of the House of Representatives, into parts of the entity, for me is uncivil, anti-constitutional and cannot withstand criticism of what the BiH Constitution implies. I am one of the signatories of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Fundamental Rights and Human Freedoms. And as one of the signatories of that point, from a few months ago, I cannot accept the territorialization of the unique PSBiH House of Representatives to an entity statement alone. We in the House of Representatives also have an entity statement, but we do not have an only entity statement on a particular issue. Article 4 introduces a category of exclusive and exclusively entity voting, that we have never had and that it does not say in Article 4. The BiH Constitution. To conclude, that is, before the conclusion. What is expedient in the unconstitutional nature of this provision is the fact that in the same way it is unconstitutional and provision of the Interim Election Commission which was adopted several days ago and which has not yet been published in the Official Journal. Therefore, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and member of this Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH, I propose that the College of the House of Representatives, at the end of this statement of vote on the proposal for a conclusion that I propose, namely that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives be asked by the High Representative, as the Supreme Interpreter of the Constitution of the Constitution of Article 4 of the proposed law, and that we be fully correct and with the decision of the Interim Election Commission on the issue. I think that the high representative's position could at least calm down the political tensions caused by Article 4 of this law, which, I repeat, in my opinion is unconstitutional. 34 I would not like to say that this is a step back from what we had in the debate on the draft electoral law, and which is why the Interim Election Commission has withdrawn part of the BiH Presidency election, establishing the equality of the rights of all citizens in the BiH area, when it comes to choosing the BiH Presidency without speaking about those who have supported the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, very transparently and those who have silenced it, that the proposal for a member of the 4th law is a few steps back and for the decisions already taken by the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people in the BiH area and on the equality of all citizens in the whole of BiH. For this reason, for these political and constitutional reasons, this provision is unacceptable to me, I find it unconstitutional and, of course, I will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6110	Dear colleagues, I will go first with the replica of my colleague Kadić, when he talks about equality, so I think the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court cannot be equal if it is based on the vote. So that's where he's already straying from the basic principle he's trying to advocate at all levels and even here when it comes to making decisions in the BiH presidency, on the one hand. On the other hand, I am now more and more convinced that this bill even has, unlike the predecessors, that is, a member of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Rakić, and Mr Tokić, an absolute constitutional basis and that is precisely in this provision that Mr Kadić has now quoted. I will be free to read the exact point d) of Article 4, i.e. the indent d) of Article 4(3) of the indent d). all decisions in both homes are made by the majority of the votes of those who are present and who vote. Excuse me, please. I fear that here the biggest confusion brings the following fact, which is that simply individuals, even here MPs, cannot agree with the basic fact and accept it as real, which is apostrophe to the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, that BiH is a complex state of two equal entities, that members of the BiH presidency are therefore voting, so that citizens in particular vote in one entity, in particular, vote in the other entity for three BiH presidency members. So, following that logic, but there is, therefore, one division, one citizen from RS cannot vote for a member of the BiH presidency from the Federation of BiH entity, but this is a fact resulting in everything that happened in '92. For years, to this day. That's one reality. With such provisions, the Charter of Human Rights and all those provisions that we like to be called upon, the Charter of the UN, etc., the Convention on Human Rights, etc. I'm here to report precisely to the aim of giving an opposite opinion from the one that was on the Constitutional Commission, which, I think, is quite logical, although law and logic don't go under hand, but I think it can be accepted as such. The second easiest option is the following, therefore, in the event that one member of the BiH presidency, for any reason, is not present today in the BiH presidency, I will not state the reason, but for any reason specified in this bill proposal, firmly interpreting constitutional provisions, it would be the most normal to implement a complete procedure of choice. Is that possible? Could we, as the most legislative body in BiH, decide at all, not at all. You know who's the supreme arbiter and that decides who's past this legislative body. So, it's just that what we want is whether we ourselves really want to make this bill easier for ourselves and solve a truly objective 35 gap that exists, or we want to continue to complicate things and wait for those issues to be resolved by someone besides this highest legislative body. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6111	Business intervention, Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6112	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we must respect one fact. We've adopted this point on the agenda, and that's the bill and let's act on the rules of procedure, discuss the amendments to the law. We are now going back to procedure and elaborate a lot of things that we would like to elaborate on the basis of certain decisions, etc. Let's get down and discuss this agenda point, as much as we're discussing, we should have had an hour's break. We've had a two-hour break, therefore, I beg you, let's move on to reviewing the amendment. Since it is given by emergency procedure, I think we can accept an amendment that would now be defined and that's how we discuss this agenda point further. This is a senseless debate like this and elaborate and determine whether something's wrong or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6113	I'm replicating my colleague Kadić. His discussion would be fine if BiH was not the state of two entities, the RS and the Federation of BiH and three constituent nations. Therefore, it is a formula that must be respected in any case. His discussion came down that there are no entities and there are no three constituent nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6114	Ladies and gentlemen, given everything that preceded this bill, and I say the circumstances that were, they give excellent credentials for one or another approach. In the context of what Mr. Divković was saying, about the need, not to require the presence of MPs from an entity, if we accept that fact, then I would give up that initial requirement that this session of the Representative Council should not be special, but to be regular, but if it is to be seen, then this session should indeed be special, not to make additional expenses coming from Banja Luka, that we participate only in one decor. But it's here, it's all clear from this. I'm asking you to take this law seriously. We need the law, and by the Constitution, we need to pass the law. But this law will also be a one-time law. From this law it's clear in advance who the deputy is, I'm speaking directly now. This isn't even a law. This is a law to replace a member of the BiH presidency. It is clear from this law that Deputy Mr. Izetbegović is currently chairing this house, since there is no Mr. Pere Skopljak and let us make such a law in which we do not have to say it is Mr. Genjac, but look, I am asking you, it may not be a good approach, but, please, I will now interpret this law. Article 7 says that if the seat is not filled 30 days before the next elections are scheduled, which is November 11th, then the deputy chairman of the people from whom he is a member of the BiH presidency who is withdrawing. And in his memo, he says he withdraws on the 12th when his mandate expires. That leaves 36 vacant places. If you count precisely, between 12 October and 11 November, it is 29 days, so, it has already entered this quota less than 30 days and, if so, I have no objection to this law, to shorten unnecessary members, to define one such member, to accept it, to deny all the troubles we are obviously going to have, driving between the Representative Council and the Council of the People, to make it clear. So here I am, for the law, but for a short version, a clear version, because I repeat, this is really a one-time law, and I deeply believe that in two months we will have a permanent electoral law in which this issue will be defined.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6115	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Mr. Dokić, I'll use the right to discuss later, just to point out that the meaning of the law isn't that. Mr. Banjac, then Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6116	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there was talk here about very serious issues, and that is, is it possible for us to violate the constitutional procedure of voting, only on one legal act, because we wish to. I don't think that's right, and the question is whether we're going to go from case to case and adapt the Constitution to our needs, even though it doesn't say so in the Constitution. I'm prone to another interpretation. I think we need the law, that there's a constitutional basis. As much as his useful validity will be, it will depend on us, but for now we need it. I think it's quite clear how decisions are made in the House of Representatives and it shouldn't now be ordered to make decisions just for one case because it would turn out to be an order. I have a proposition. Here it is said, the Constitution sets out a minimum requirement, as decisions are made. All the lawyers know, if they want to know, that we within the minimum... who we have to satisfy, we can strengthen the way we vote. Strengthen, respecting what the Constitution says as a minimum basis. That's why I'm proposing that Article 4 be different and Article 4 be deleted and Article 6 be reduced. If it is a vacant member of the RS presidency, the election is necessary, in addition to conducting a regular voting procedure, we have no dispute here, that a half majority of RS lawmakers vote for a decision. Half way. Secondly, if it is a vacant member of the Federation of BiH presidency, a member of the Croatian people's BiH presidency, in addition to conducting a regular procedure, it is necessary that we have a half majority of Croatian people's votes in the voting structure and the same applies to the Bosniak people. That's what we've been through. We have a constitutional voting procedure and we have protection that no one can impose, because it will block the MPs and that is the end of the story. In the House of Peoples, it's not as good as it says. Every nation has a chance to declare this decision by a decision of vital national interest. And it is clear what the procedure is when the decision is declared by a decision of vital national interest, then it is necessary for most delegates from the order of the people to vote for it and the end of the story. What's going on here? We have a mechanism to protect the people's will. How could he not be of vital interest? Why can't it? Please, and it's not controversial. So, I think that by strengthening this, we have come to a solution that no one can impose anything, especially here on the Croatian people. I'm sure they're afraid to impose a decision, here's 37 of them now have a chance not to impose a decision. Niko one can say she's not constitutional.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6117	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, given that this is a draft law by the BiH Presidency and since the Constitutional Commission, most of the votes, has released, defacto, this law in this procedure, if there were any dilemmas in the previous part of the debate, from the point of view of the principle and the need to talk about the background of this law, I think that after all these facts, we should really approach the session at which we will go to the amendment, as long as Mr Deretić, in addition to the numerous outcomes of the people from different parties, the advocate of this law, is best represented through his discussion and the essence of that law. I think we have a transparently clear law, I think we have transparently in the assembly clear political views regarding this law and that we are not further exhausted. If there are amendments, that they are presented here and to shorten the procedure in the sense that we have, therefore, a bill, satisfied all procedures, all possible arguments have been lost that we are asking that the BiH presidency be, to seek an explanation of why it is an emergency procedure. We've entered the final stage, and if there's an amendment, that's what we're pleading on. Mr Deretić made it very clear that the law and discussion and Hilme Neimarlija and other people of the U.S.A. have become quite clear to me, after this presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6118	It doesn't matter if it's been discussed, Mr. MP. There are messengers who are mind readers, who prescribe what anyone will say. Please, I'm applying, in this case, to discuss as an MP. I remind you that one month ago, the Interim Election Commission made a proposal for a rule that regulates the issue of replacing the vacant seat in the BiH presidency. This proposal for text was available to the public for a month and a half, to the general public, and to these MPs. The text of such a proposal was finally adopted two days ago by the Interim Election Commission as a rule and regulation that becomes an integral part of the rules and regulations. We received a bill yesterday in parliament that established the BiH Presidency, in line with its constitutional powers and in accordance with the procedure for adopting the agenda at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives' House of Representatives, the MPs said that this point would be on the agenda today. We're at that point and we're talking about the bill. In the debate so far, there have been large words about tensions, about passions, about the catastrophic violation of human rights, it has been spoken, etc. I draw your attention to the fact that the proposal for a law that delivered to the House of Representatives is a prescription to the rule and regulation of the Interim Election Commission. There's only one difference. The difference is in time, which the PIC prescribed that 120 days before the election, if it remains vacant, and less, this home does not have the right to choose a new member, but will make it a new assembly. In the BiH presidency's proposal, the deadline is cut to 30 days or less, so it is said, if the place remains vacant for 30 days, that 38 will then choose a new assembly after the election, and otherwise up to 30 days, this house can be elected by then. All these provisions quoted from this proposal as a catastrophic violation of human rights, etc. are identical in the provisional rules and regulations and for a month, when it was published in public, as I said, I didn't notice any passion, tension, or any public reaction. The Party of Democratic Action reacted to these provisional rules and regulations, for other reasons, however, but it was the only reaction to such a proposal for rules and regulations. Some mentioned honor and dishonesty. I leave it to every MP, of course, to judge whether it is honorable six months, which means, in the event that this moment remains a vacant seat in the BiH presidency, this house has no right to choose a deputy, it has to wait six months, a new assembly, to choose. The BiH presidency's proposal says this house can choose this at this time, if it remains empty, that this house can choose a replacement, etc. What is important, that is, what is more honorable and less honorable, I, of course, leave to every MP, and I will judge it as the position of every MP, and by this I will not judge the persons of the MPs, but his attitude, the legitimate right to have his own opinion. What is the essence of this law? The essence of this law is, it is difficult not to agree that there is a need for this law and it is difficult not to agree that the rules and regulations, which will be applied in the event that this law is not adopted, are in my opinion a greater step backwards than this law. What's the point? The difference between the rules and the rules and this law is just, as I said, what I stated in one fact. In case it remains vacant, under this bill, it is elected by MPs from the same entity as a member of the BiH presidency whose place has been vacant, according to the prescribed procedure, to be nominated at the House of Representatives and confirmed by the House of Peoples, as indicated. The bill, that's said, among other things. If it remains a vacant seat 30 days before the election, it will be temporarily replaced by a member of the college, from a people from which the BiH presidency is a member until the new parliament's meeting, when it will elect the new BiH presidency member. Rules and regulations. All the same, but if the vacant seat remains 120 days before the election, then a member of the assembly's college, from the same people as a member of the BiH presidency, whose seat has been vacant, temporarily replaces the BiH presidency member and after the elections, in the new assembly of the House of Representatives, calls the elections and the new assembly of the House of Representatives, chooses the replacement until the end of the term of office, as described. Now, what is the background of all these passions that are mentioned, you judge for yourself. There's a difference in the number of days. This is out of the need for me to put things out and in no way at all, Mr. Dokić, this is not a proposal for a law that nominates, but rather a bill that says. If 30 days before the election, the replacement of the vacant seat is not completed, the member of the College will be replaced, and the new assembly will, and if we pass this law, this House of Representatives has the legal right to choose a member of the Bureau, according to what is proposed, until 30 days before the election, that is the point. And I'm asking you more, since there's been a lot of talk, a lot of controversy, a lot of big talk and a little amendment. A few amendments, when it comes to the bill, I think it was more productive to direct energy to the amendments. 39 I think Article 7 in one part is inaccurate and vague. If the BiH presidency member's seat becomes vacant within 30 days of the date set for the next election, the point here can be drawn that it is strictly 30 days. The point is less than 30 days. And I'm responding here in an amendment, in terms of fixing the text. If the BiH presidency member's seat becomes vacant for less than 30 days until the election, then this temporary replacement and new assembly applies, and until then, the House of Representatives has the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6119	Ladies and gentlemen, although Mr. Genjac did not explicitly mention the names, his qualifications about the fact that it was reportedly a month ago that a rule of the Interim Election Commission was published, and like all those who are speaking against it today, they didn't say anything in a month, it's not true. The Interim Election Commission rule was strictly forbidden to publish in the media and none of the media published it except two or three days ago, it was published under number 801 and many members, who were interested in it, managed to get it in hiding only a few days ago, and it was not published in the media a month before this session. That is why I want to defend my own political dignity, because of the fact that I am also reacting to the unconstitutional provisions of Article 4 of the Law which the BiH Presidency proposes and the provisions that I do not know exactly what number, the Interim Election Commission, which I have here, although in English, and to reject the accusation that, as it is, there is indiscriminateness and silence that is manifested today for this law. That's not true. I could be rougher on this, but honor requires me not to go any further. Secondly, as one of those whose image did not stand out in this law, neutrally, I can say that it is also not an accurate finding that the fundamental difference between the BiH presidency's proposal and the PIC's proposal is contained within 120 and 30 days. There is another, perhaps more important difference, with regard to Article 6, the position of the 2nd law, which the BiH presidency suggests that if the House of Nations twice refuses to nominate the House of Representatives, on the basis of this member, the third nominated one, most MPs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who are from the same constituent people, as well as nominated. In the proposal of the Interim Election Commission, which is likely to be published, this exclusive right remains the House of Representatives and without the consent of the House of Peoples, and the BiH Presidency gives this exclusive right to the House of Peoples, not the House of Representatives, it may be one of the biggest differences in the proposals of the Interim Election Commission and this House of Representatives, and the story of 120 and 30 days is that story which was meant to be a smoke signal to take discussion at this House of Representatives. I am still standing on the stand and I demand that the predstavnički of Representatives be made known that the OHR is required to interpret the constitutionality of the provision and the 4th proposal of the BiH Presidency, regardless of how adequate provisions of the Interim Election Commission, which it has adopted, appear to me, at its last session, and I refuse to charge that we knew about the PIC rule, and we kept silent about it for a month. I didn't know about the rule, because members of the Interim Election Commission are not temporarily delegated from my party. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6120	Ladies and gentlemen, when I discussed the proposal of this law after the break, as the first debater, I was not at all dismayed, nor was I going to speak, I would say, passionately or emotionally, even very rationally. My goal was to point out some of the essential things and the position in which this House of Parliament takes this law, as provided for in the decision-making process. In all the other subsequent discussions, I have not heard a single discussion which is what I said denied, and I have said, and I stand behind it now, gentlemen, that this law, by the way it prescribes replacing BiH presidency members, violates all the acts under which this House works. I repeat, it violates all acts and now the question is, how do you get out of it? Of course, there were attempts, I'd say, eskiculating the problem, and then we say, that we're acting amendmental. How to act in amendment to a law which, in my opinion, is not good, so it should be changed, it is difficult to do something amendments, when something basically does not stand on healthy feet. Mr. Banjac, it seems to me, tried, even in a hurry, to amend some members of the law like this, but I haven't succeeded until the end, so I can't comment on his proposals specifically, whether they're good or not, but it shows that it's not easy to do the amendment, I would say. However, it is obvious here that, gentlemen, in the Rules of Procedure, if we want this law, or this kind of voting solution, then we need to put into the rules of procedure of this House, first that there are special sessions, because it says that there is a special session, and then the rules of procedure of the special session should be adopted in that Rules of Procedure, and then the possibility, possibly, for this kind of vote should be provided in that Rules of Procedure. Maybe that's how you can get out. Here, I'm not a lawyer either, let the lawyers assess whether this is the way. If they think so, let's stick to some rules of conduct. Because if we jump out of those rules, then the rules won't even happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6121	I don't have any more discussions and we're going to join a statement on the amendments. As I noted, Mr Dokić first had an amendment in Article 1 to put it on regular sessions instead of on special sessions. The amendment is in that sense. Instead of saying to special sessions to change and to stand at a regular session. It's deleted separately, so it's in session. Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Unanimously, of those present against none, it was 17. We'll have to go after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 10 from RS when it's in favour? 9 From the Federation of BiH 10 – from RS 9, most of those present. Therefore, the amendment was accepted by both a simple and an entity majority. 41 The next proposal, Mr Kadić, had a proposal to make known after the statement of the conclusion, which I will also put to the vote, the proposal for the conclusion of the constitutionality and the rules and rules and of this law, to ask the OHR. Mr Banjac has proposed an amendment to Article 4 where it is prescribed that the candidate who receives the largest number of votes, he suggested, if he is in the case of a candidate from the RS, that most RS MPs vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6122	I'd read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6123	Please read your amendment. Mr. Banjac will formulate his amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6124	Please, I have suggested, if the amendment's proposal agrees, that a direct vote on the amendment, without a proposal, is not disputed. But don't, Tokić, that's it. I know that sometimes emotions go out front, it's no good. There's this business opportunity. Why? Read the Rules of Procedure and you'll see. I suggested that the contents of Article 4 be deleted. To delete the contents of Article 5. That article 4 reads: “If a member of the RS presidency is vacant, it is necessary for the election, in addition to conducting a regular voting procedure, to vote for a decision by the half majority of the delegates, from the territory of the RS.”
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6125	Please, let's vote on it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6126	I'm not finished. If it is a vacant member of the Croatian people's BiH presidency, in addition to conducting a regular voting procedure, it is necessary for the election of a half-way majority of delegates, one and another of the Croatian people's homes is thought of. If it is a vacant member of the BiH presidency of the Bosniak people of the Federation of BiH, in addition to conducting a regular voting procedure, it is necessary to elect a half-way majority of MPs – delegates from the Bosniak people. That's the point. We're satisfied with the procedure and we have a protective mechanism. When it comes to Article 6, I don't understand here, because literally two are the same attitude. Article 1 is prescribed in point 2. So it turns out that we have two attitudes, and we don't. Listen, please, it's very important that we see. Item 1 of Article 6. After the nomination at the House of Representatives, the nominated is confirmed by the majority of members of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH who belong to the same constituent people as appointed. Now, listen, attitude two. If the House of People refuses twice the nomination proposed by the House of Representatives, on the basis of this member, most of the MPs of the House of 42 peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who are from the same constitutive people, on the basis of the third nomination. What's the difference? Excuse me, what's the difference? But it's the same number of people who vote. Look, I'd like to delete article 6. Because he doesn't have a need anymore, when we have a Article 4 that's totally accurate. Please, it's not right. I would like to say, it is unacceptable, gentlemen, that delegates in the House of Peoples, who are not directly elected, by voting make a final decision on the choice of a man who was actually to be elected by a direct vote. I guess it's more natural for the House of Representatives to do it the way it's said. So, with a protective mechanism. It's more natural.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6127	Let's make a statement on the first amendment, Mr. Banjac, you've heard, to Article 4 and Article 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6128	You can't hear it. Thank you, I understand you better than Mr. Banjac, you'll get the text in writing. Please, professional services written the text of Mr. Banjac's amendment, the secretariat, therefore. Until Mr. Banjac's text is prepared. We have an amendment to Mr. Tokić that we adopted, which refers to erasing one word. I hope Mr Tokić could understand that and all present MPs. We have Mr. Banjac's amendments, which will now be prepared in writing and we have another amendment that reads, which I have submitted. The amendment I have submitted, which applies to Article 7. Just to insert the words "at least 30 days". Is there a need, we approach the amendment that I have submitted as MPs, at least 30 days, less than 30 days, and the most. We approach the statement, which reads: “Article 7 adds the word “less than 30 days” in front of the word 30. Thank you. We're approaching the vote. Please, who's up for the amendment? Who's against the amendment? We're accessing entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? For this amendment, of the 25 people present, 17-1 voted against. By entities. From Federation of BiH 10 – RS 8. So, mostly, both the entity and the necessary vote, the amendment was accepted. Ten minutes break until the written text of Mr. Banjac's amendment is received. 43 For a rightful decision and we continue to work. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. You have received the text of the amendment proposed by Ambassador Banjac. We'll leave you to meet the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6130	Dear MPs, I hope that all the amendments I have proposed are available to you, and I would just like to draw your attention once again that my goal was to include the voting procedure in the Constitution in both houses of the BiH Parliament and I would like us not to approach this silence. I'd like to see what the drawbacks are. In the debate, this way before this session, there is one remark that stands in principle. He says it can happen, he can never choose. That's right. That's right. I'm aware of that lack, here, now I'm aware of that lack. But believe me, I don't know this moment, since it was short, that it can't be thought so quickly, what should be put in place as a protective mechanism, that it doesn't happen. I only know one thing. The possibility is maximumly protected here that, without the consent of MPs and delegates in the order of a particular nation, no representative can be elected, so no representative can be chosen without a particular people. Without their consent, without their majority, which I think is maximum, collective law protected, but I don't know how this other right is protected. If you think it's good to withdraw these amendments, I'm ready to withdraw the amendments, but I won't plead, I'll remain abstention. I can't vote for something that's the opposite of the Constitution. Yes, I think you're right to say that the promoter should plead for the amendment. I don't know how. I'd like you to plead, if the solution is to withdraw the amendments from my side, here, I'll withdraw the amendments. You think so? Well, here, I'll withdraw the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6131	Okay, thank you. We approach the statement on the text of the bill, as we have received it with two amendments adopted. Please, who's in favor of accepting the delivered text of the law? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 29-17 people present, it voted against – 8 against. From Federation of BiH 10 – from Republika Srpska 8. Therefore, the required majority and entity-qualified majority, the proposal was adopted. Please, given that in the text of the law of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's professional service, certain technical shortcomings, which need to be corrected, have been identified, I propose the following conclusion. The service of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is hereby authorised to carry out legal and technical additions to the text of the Law before reference to the House of Peoples' consideration. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that Article 9 will be corrected in the sense that the law is in effect on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH. Please, who's in favor of adopting this conclusion under this law? Who's in? Only technically. 44 Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 29 present – 15 voted in favour – 1 against. From Federation of BiH 11 and RS 5. Therefore, the proposal for a conclusion was adopted. In the end, let's just finish this part of the agenda. Mr. Kadić suggested the following conclusion. The PSBiH House of Representatives is asking the High Representative to declare on the constitutionality of Article 4 of the proposed law, as well as members of the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission which regulate the issue. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Out of the 29-9 present, the vote was against – against 5. So most of it was in. But by entities. The Federation of BiH voted 9, however, not enough, from RS 1, is not enough. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority by entities and goes to the alignment. Thank you. Moving to the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6132	Mr. Chairman or Mr. Chairman, I ask you to continue to take care of the authority and integrity of each MP and that of what you are not sure... This is an absurd thing we haven't had in four years for the existence of this congregation. After the vote of one law, you show immediate uncertainty, were we supposed to vote it? It really is a humiliation to all of us and for what you allow it to be. I will have to leave the session in the future when you bring us into such a situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6133	Every decision is ours and yours. Therefore, there is no reason to be excited and debated. What she is, what she is, is ours. Please, by respecting this remark, we move to agenda 5. Ad.5. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties – Proposers Mr Špirić and Mr Đedović They are, as far as I can see, here among us, if there is any need for an explanation, I am opening the debate. Mr. Špirić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6134	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I just want to make a few opening remarks. I don't think there is any need to know you in particular that on 18 May 2000, representatives, I repeat, all political parties participating in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, at a working meeting in the Office of the High Representative, 45 came to the conclusion that working material prepared for, in the sense that it can be translated into the draft law for the financing of political parties in BiH, we should also accept that Mr Đedović and I were MPs who were in close co-operation with the OHR office, Ambassador Hofman and his legal department, with Mr Taljić, in what way to come to the form of the bill. At the last meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Representatives, we had a draft law on the financing of political parties. There have been various proposals and suggestions from MPs we have considered, consulted at the Office of the High Representative, in fact, in OHR, with the legal department of OHR. I am going to brief you on what was possible today, so that we can keep this legal project in shape, optimally, simply not getting into dispersion, so that we don't come up with a gruesome debate that would take us beyond the adoption of this bill, and I want to make it clear to you that we have considered every presentation and observation of every MP most seriously, and I will briefly try to look back at those remarks, but I want to say briefly what we could accept and install. We have put in place a proposal for this legislative project, which is a member of the 3.1rd indent 4 of the state budget, according to the Budget of BiH, to finance parliamentary groups etc. The text remains the same because it is in line with the BiH Constitution. Then Article 4.3 is deleted because he speaks the work that a member of the political party performs in the party, in principle, is unpaid work, etc. I don't think there's any need to define it, that it's the domestic matter of every party and it shouldn't be the subject of this law. Article 8. We propose that state and entity and cantonal bodies, municipal, local communities, public institutions, humanitarian organisations, companies that are exclusively non-profit, religious, joint and commercial associations in which public capital is invested are at least 25%, cannot be financed by political parties. In the bill of law there were 50%, we suggest that it be 25%. Article 15, if the political party has received funds in excess of the maximum annual revenue established in Article 3.4 and exceeds the maximum amount of contributions set out in Article 5 and in a manner prohibited by Article 8, the Election Commission shall impose a fine on the political party and the amount shall not exceed the maximum amount of the sum obtained in an unlawful manner. This article allows and imposes such punishment, even if the total amount of fines exceeds 10,000 KM. Article 21 It is a new member who was inserted into this proposal, which was not in the draft bill, until a permanent election commission is established according to Article 5. Annex 3. The General Framework Agreement for Peace, the interim electoral commission can take over all or only part of the powers and affairs assigned to the BiH Election Commission by this law. Appeals on decisions of the Interim Election Commission may be submitted to the Electoral Sub-Committee for Appeals, on the basis of Article 16 of this Act and the Rules on the work of the Election Sub-Committee for Appeals. The competencies given in this position to the Election Subcommittee will remain until the relevant BiH institutions assume that responsibility. So these are those remarks that we could adopt and that we have put into the draft of this law on the financing of political parties in BiH. 46 I will only tell you in which diaposon the debates of some MPs, with the best wish, of course, to come to this proposal, and I think that Article 2, that Mrs Suada Muminagić had a comment in the very way of defining the political party, I must say that in this definition we were being led, above all, by the draft of the permanent electoral law, which was done by the OHR group and by international and domestic experts and that it is closest to this concept of political parties in BiH and that the interpretation given by Mrs Muminagić is the close interpretation of political parties or political parties in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and BiH and that we would not enter the segment, in the fields of association, on the freedom of association at the level of BiH, we remain in this definition which is in the proposed law. Then, Mr Rasim Kadić made an observation to Article 3.3, Article 18, suggests that it be deleted and the opinions are yes, we think that this is the most pathetic solution, which is in the proposal, and his remarks refer to that part of the penalty paid and based on the participation in parliament, which is re-refunding to the party, the MP, but I think it is less dangerous than any other solution, because it is a very small amount that can come on the basis of punishment, to return to the political party's fund. We could not simply find a more adequate solution that would satisfy this remarks by MP Kadić. Then there were objections from NHI MPs, in the sense that political parties should be allowed to engage in agricultural activities, therefore, that any activity, including business activity, would be the source of political parties' income, we were guided by the principle that the parties in the opposition were often, or most often, discriminated against, that they were in principle not in a position to carry out such a part of the activity, and then we simply stuck to our proposal. As far as donations from abroad are concerned. I think it was a gentleman's remark, also Kadić, that this was left to parliament to decide whether to go to ban or limit foreign donations, but in any case, any revenue that is in the political party's fund, they must be recorded, verified and must be an integral part of the financial report that are in mandatory political parties to submit. There was a question, too, whether membership could be restricted for political parties. I don't think with this legal project it would be logical to limit it, that it's the internal matter of every political party, or any political party. Why 8 average salaries, related to these criminal provisions. There was also a question, I think, that this is the way of legal regulation with us similar countries, which in the process of transition and political adjustment, such as Macedonia and Slovenia, so we have managed some of the experiences of our neighbouring countries. There were also, it seems to me, remarks coming from the SDP, Mrs Muminagić, in terms of submitting a financial report to the Interim and Permanent Election Commission, but such a way remains as... special controls, but it does not disturb the obligation of political parties to submit their financial reports, or annual accounts, in accordance with entity laws, the competent services in entities, therefore, remains that obligation, it is a kind of special control that I suppose should be regulated, or which we assumed should be regulated by this law. So, we made sure that everything that is logical and rational, in our view, seeing the OHR Office, Ambassador Hofman and his legal advisers, I believe that this could be an example that in a short time, with close cooperation with those who want to help us, we came to a rational proposal, of course, not ideal, but I suppose it's better to adopt this law, that, if they show their anomalies, we change it in walking, rather than outwitting ourselves whether or not 47 we're going to adopt this law. I, too, want to say that Mr. Neimarlija had one remark about, as I recall, the legacy of the former Communist Party's assets. We thought that this would agree, further agree on the adoption of this law, and I think that this problem should be regulated by a special legal act, so that it would be more rational if it wasn't in this bill. Finally, once again, I want to thank all those who helped me and Mr. Đedović, Mr. Hofman's office and legal advice and Ambassador Hofman himself, I think it is my personal view that this law should be adopted in the form of the proposal that we delivered. Of course, if there are any serious amendments that deserve, and I think that every MP endures serious amendments, that we are ready to discuss it, but believe me, we have long discussed all the ideas that the MPs have put out here, that neither of us have forgotten, and that this could be the most optimal solution. So I ask you to support this legal project, here, in the interest of BiH and its citizens and its entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6135	Thank you very much. I hope the comprehensive information was useful. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6136	Another note. [[You don't hear enough from the place.]] This legislative project was supported by the Council of Ministers of BiH,... the allocation of special funds for these purposes...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6137	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6138	I have no amendments to this law, but I want to say that it is a good thing that this unresolved issue, which has had an impact on the quality of political life in BiH, has been resolved, here, conditionally, because I hope that we will resolve it today. I think we should especially point out that this law was done in collaboration with international institutions. It seems to me that the OHR and the OSCE have made a significant contribution, in terms of giving suggestions, as it has been resolved in other countries, and I think it is a quality higher. So, what has not been good so far, which is that political parties, in fact, had to get along and very often used illegal funds to raise funds, material resources for their work. This will be an opportunity to bring it down to legal frameworks and to finally have such a law, it can normally work and function. I think it's quite clear today that no one has had any particular objections to this law, but in the end, it's better to have a law like this, it's going to be time for us to see in practice 48 what indeterminates these are, so we're going to build them up. I believe that it will be easy for us to reach agreement, because it is in everyone's best interest that political parties get such a chance for normal work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6139	At the last meeting of the assembly, when we discussed the draft of this law, we pleaded before the SDP Club, so I spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, not as my opinion, to support the adoption of this law, in order to regulate once, the way in which we can in this situation these issues. However, we made a lot of suggestions and remarks about the solutions that were in the law. I can say, except for a few of these remarks and suggestions that are not essential, most of them are not accepted. I think the law could have been better prepared. We got it now, just before the session, because it was hard to make amendments. The amendments should be linked. You can't just give the amendment to one, two members, so we've given up the amendment. I now hear the BiH Council of Ministers supported. I thought it would be good for the BiH Council of Ministers to declare this law. I wish I'd gotten it in writing. If Mr Špirić had already had the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think he could share himself with the law, when the law is already shared today, and that position of the Council of Ministers of BiH. But I'm not saying this because I'm challenging the law. We at the SDP Club think that some suggestions could have been accepted, but I'm saying, we haven't made amendments, because it should be a lot, it's connected, it's changing, and that's why we won't be an obstacle to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6140	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I join the support of this law and I think it covered the basics of this area that was not regulated in BiH. That's why I'm giving my support and I'm voting for the adoption of this law. However, I have a small remark. I think it is missing Article 22, which should read: "This law should take effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH, and will also be published in the official messengers of the entity."
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6141	You have an immediate response from the Proposer. So, this proposal is being accepted. Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr. Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6142	Mr. Chairman, I would like to begin by commending myself on the whole initiative that led to this law, so two MPs from two entities, with the support, professional support and assistance of the Office of the High Representative, that one proposal has taken place that will, in turn, also be adopted. This could be a model for many of the laws we are going to make in this congregation. Once again, I stress, therefore, the multi-page initiative and with the professional support of the Office of the High 49 Representatives. One small replica of my colleague Banjac. We need the law, I hope it's necessary for everyone, not because the parties are going to work normally, but because they're going to do it regularly. Some parties will feel good when a law is passed. As a rule, it's ruling. In view of the practice, which is, but it seems to me that we have all experienced fate, that the ruling quickly becomes opposition and vice versa, and that everyone cares about having regular relations with the financing of political parties, and with all these remarks, which are related, I can say, to some understatement and, behold, the suggestion is that we accept this law on my part, and, behold, my party, which, since November, is quite certain, will certainly be ruling, will surely support these new changes that will make it even more possible for the financing of political parties to be regulated. So, I lift two fingers for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6143	Mirko Banjac has a replica, and I hope that we are at a high level of consent, that we will be able to plead on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6144	As this sun affects people, it's not normal. I was thinking the same thing as my colleague Dokić, here, he doesn't know he didn't replicate to me. It was just a matter of regularity.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6145	Thank you very much. I think we do, do you, Mr. Malkić, answer? I'd like us to exhaust this agenda. That's why I'm asking for your clarity. We don't have a chance to meet later. Please, let's finish this. The agenda to wear out at this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6146	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, I would, on the basis of my discussion from last session, only in Article 3(3), companies referred to in point 5 of the previous position, be able to deal only with activities related to culture and activity deleted, so that we remain that the parties can form enterprises that will deal with any activity. In the form of amendments, I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6147	Please, every amendment must be submitted in writing, Mr. Malkić, or in writing, don't take this in writing. Did the promoter understand the amendment, or can it be made clear, Mr Špirić?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6148	I thought that we had brought an end, not to dispute first Mr. Malkić to insist on the amendment he had on the draft of the law, though, we were seriously considering it. So we didn't just throw it away for the reason someone's being rejected. We think that a solution has been offered in Bill 50 most optimistic because it does not discriminate between parties of these or those. Let's let the weather show where the legal project is going. It is no problem that the representative council in this or in the new assembly initiates the process of amending and supplementing the legislative project, and therefore I would ask MP Malkić to withdraw the amendment, if possible, or that parliament declares the amendments, we are not prepared, as proposing, in agreement with the Office of the High Representative, to accept this amendment. I have to tell you that it was a close cooperation so that she would open up other amendments and, in that sense, please, if possible, to withdraw.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6149	Mr. Malkić, are you staying on the amendment or will you withdraw the amendment? I think we have a high degree of consent here, so I'd like to ask you, if that's not an essential part of the law. You plead, do you stay on the amendment or do you withdraw it? It's never too late to start that issue in a later procedure. Here, Mr. Malkić gives up his amendment and I think we can make a statement about this bill. I'm asking who's for this bill of law that we have here? It's about the bill, please. Do you mind if I ask everyone who's against you? Gentlemen, of the 25 present – 22 is in favour. Therefore, this bill has been passed. Thank you very much. We don't need an entity vote, we have everything. We're moving to agenda six. Ad.6. A draft law on freedom of information in BiH opens the debate. Proposers are Mr. Sejfudin Tokić and Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Mr. Tokić, please. We have one of my corrections, with the addition of Article 22, this law has been passed. Let's know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6150	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs - MPs, you've got all the material, the draft law on freedom of information. We had this law under consideration on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which gave a positive opinion, in terms of constitutional basis for the adoption of such a law. At the same time, the Constitutional Commission agreed, and we as proposing that in the final drafting of the proposal, the final drafting of the text of the law, make sure that the name of this law is formulated so as not to question confusion, or jurisdiction from certain national levels. What's this about? This draft law on freedom of information does not treat the media, but treats an individual's right to access information that governments, i.e. government authorities, or as we have called it in law public authorities, which are financed from taxes, i.e. budget funds. We believe that the adoption of the freedom law 51 information is of vital interest to build freedom and democratic processes in BiH and that one of the main problems we face in practice, I can give several examples, without excessive politicisation, is the inaccessibility of citizens with certain information. Whether it is information, here, I will mention in the media a lot of present information on alleged listening to the RS or on the financing of budgets of certain public enterprises in the Federation of BiH, etc. It is obvious that there is a need to promote greater transparency and the responsibility of these authorities in the obligation to give this information to each of BiH's interested citizens. More countries in the world have this law. Greece, the United States, Canada, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Sweden for as long as 20 years, and certainly the adoption of this law on freedom of information will help BiH draw closer to the goal we have all identified, which is European integration. Of course, this law provides for exceptions. I can't have all the information available to the citizens, but exactly defined the procedures which are exceptions, as far as they are concerned, and who can make a decision on the exemption of that information, so that I don't bother you here, it's very decadent in the law. The law also gives individuals the opportunity to come into possession of information, all the information that the state authorities have on it, therefore simply this exchange... any possibility that old practice, which was present in these premises and elsewhere, would retain certain files in the state bodies of individuals who do not have access to it. At least so far, he's had no adequate access. The law is also an obligation from the Madrid Declaration. On 16 December1998, in the Madrid Declaration, the obligation to pass such a law was deciably stated. You also received a letter from the High Representative, Mr Volfgang Petrič, and the head of the OSCE Mission, Robert Beri, who also cited some arguments concerning the law. The law was done on the basis of experiences of developed democratic countries, with the help of domestic experts, on the basis of several consultations, a series of organised discussions, with NGOs and today, in the form of drafts, which means that today, defacto, we are promoting an open debate on this law and that, as Mr Deretić announced on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which will deliver his, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, will specifically deliver his opinion, requests to improve the text, i.e., objections to this law, so he is open, regardless of the debate given today, to all members of this high home. If there is a need for a broader explanation, by elaborated this law, I am at my disposal, but, esteeming today a very hard and long work, I think this is enough from the aspect of the basic motives and initiatives related to the adoption of this law, with the final remark – suggestion, in the 2000 budget does not require any special financial means for the implementation of this law, if it was adopted during this calendar year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6151	I think the information was exhausting and necessary. Therefore, I feel that we also need this law and I am opening a further debate, if anyone has any. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6152	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize if Mr. Tokić said something or accepted the suggestions that I'm about to make, because I wasn't there, but what I also said to the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I want to say now is that the Freedom of Information Act, perhaps an inadequate title for this text, and that is why I suggested that this law be called a law on the protection of human rights in the field of information. So that's it. The second thing I think is that it is impossible for the law to be connected to a law it does not have, it is a law on the Ombudsman of BiH, and I would like to stress one more thing very briefly, and that is that in the Constitution of BiH, it is a clearly defined place and the role of the Ombudsman, so the introduction of a new information authority is unnecessary. Maybe it's a good idea to just get under one of the jurisdiction of the existing Constitution. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6154	Dear Presidency, I am also supporting the proposal, which is the initiative behind this law. I think the law is very well-conceived and that in its basic intensity it is approaching BiH practice which is already in a large number of EU countries, so it is perfectly understandable that we have such a legal project ahead of us. However, to what Mr Tokić, in the sense of the promoter, stressed that there is a clearly defined procedure that determines the methodology of exceptions to the disclosure of certain information, I have remained in a kind of dilemma based at least on my understanding of the content, which is highlighted in Article 6. Namely, Article 6 refers to exceptions to public bodies' functions, and it is said that the competent public authority can establish an exception in the case where the disclosure of information can be expected to cause significant damage to the legitimate objectives of the following categories in BiH, and then indicate foreign... and foreign policies and interests of defence and security, protection of public security, interests of monetary policy, etc. I am afraid that this Article 6 is defined in some way, these categories, which are numbered here, that they are too stretching, that they are too abstract, in the sense that it is not very clear on what criteria the competent public authorities would establish to reveal some information from these domains, could cause significant damage to the legitimate objectives in these mentioned areas. One space could be opened, a rather restrictive restrictive interpretation, and a kind of abuse of a rather stretching definition, which is present here in this Article 6. It may therefore be desirable to consider, since we are considering this in the form of a draft, that within the competences of the Information Ombudsman, whose establishment I support, it is also stressed, and its function, that the function of considering the justification of all the exceptions identified, which relate to the categories numbered by points a.b.c.d. This law, in order to ensure that the persons of the competent authorities are more responsible than the obligation to disclose certain information, i.e. to avoid access to any restrictive interpretation, which is the essence, or point out in this Article 6. The law. 53 Also, I think that what is referred to in Article 9, paragraph 2, is not clear enough for me, at least in some way, to create confusion, where it is said, that in making a decision, whether disclosure of information is justified by public interest, the competent public authority will consider circumstances such as, but not limited to any non-compliance with the legal obligation, the existence of any approach, judicial error, abuse of power, negligence in the exercise of official duties, unauthorized use of public funds, the danger of the health or safety of individuals, public or the environment. I think that this formulated position 2, in this Article 9, creates an assumption of an allusion to what it refers to, but I don't think it's possible to have one complete insight into what the Proposer, or whoever is behind this law, specifically refers when he lists all these moments here on non-compliance with legal obligations, to even neglect in the performance of official duty. I think there should be some concreteization here, so we know clearly what it's all about. Those are my two concrete remarks. I think there would be time and certainly opportunity for these suggestions to be respected in some way in the course of growing the law from the form of a draft to the form of a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6155	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a problem, which is closely related to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I would like to say that the BiH Council of Ministers has not considered the draft of this law, because we have worked really intensively this month and the other legal projects have remained out of our review. I want to say that we within the Ministry of Human Rights, I am talking about the Ministry of Human Rights, not the position of the BiH Council of Ministers, are simply individually considering this draft law, and I would pray, and I don't think there will be any problem following this intervention by Mr. Tokić on the very name of the law, the right of citizens to information, that he does not derogate the right, given the Dayton Agreement, the entity to inform, etc., I believe that in the proposal this law will receive the support of both the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and receive the support of the BiH Council of Ministers. So, just for the sake of being too busy and a lot of jobs that... We did not consider this draft in the BiH Council of Ministers, but here I am asking that the draft come to the Ministry and before the Council of Ministers, and believe that we individually, Mr Raguž and Haverić and I discussed it, and we were very close to putting this as a point of the agenda and at today's meeting of the Council of Ministers, but for the sake of busyness and protocol activity we were not at the opportunity. Thank you very much, and I think this is an important legal project, which is worth having a discussion about, and as soon as possible, an adequate legal solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6156	I also on the Constitutional Legal Commission have expressed my own, for I do not know which time, deep disdain, for the simple reason that such legal projects are delivered literally at the session of the Constitutional Commission itself. I got it at the session and I wasn't prepared at all to discuss this draft, but in the meantime I read it carefully and I made a commitment to deliver comments by the next session of the Constitutional Commission, in writing or, generally, comments on this project. 54 However, here, visually, regardless of the proposings, only Articles 2 and 3 are listed here in the preamble. The BiH Constitution. Neither in Article 2, nor in Article 3, I am deeply convinced, there is no standoff for the adoption of this law, just as we are presented here after the microphone. You all know that informing is in the jurisdiction of the entity, regardless of the proposings and whatever is behind the promoter is OHR. I'm already deeply convinced of what I'm saying, it's on one side. On the other hand, there are really certain illogicalities to which Mr Banjac has also pointed out, that certain institutions, which still do not exist in BiH, are here, first of all, to the ombudsmans at BiH level, which is indeed one nonsens, one absurd, through which in no way can be crossed. On the other hand, here in Article 3. indent 1 is mentioned under quotes “information”, definition of information, information is every material, etc. Information is mainly placed on citizens through means of public information. So this is now, what I'm talking about, absolutely contrary to the very purpose and purpose that is intended to achieve this legal project, so first of all, an adequate name. It's certainly not in the context of what's presented here, so in that sense, I think the name is absolutely inadequate. However, I just wanted to point out here in principle a few things that at first glance visually, if I see that really in my deep opinion don't stand, but I say, until the next meeting of the Constitutional Commission, I will Decidate myself on this, but in any case the promoter, here I think of Mr Špirić and the esteemed colleague, I don't know what he's called, it's on them anyway to deliver, not enough just to name a member, which is the bottom line and what is the point they're referring to in the Constitution. It's not enough to say just Article 2 and I don't know 3. The BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6157	The esteemed MPs, I would only present concrete thoughts and suggestions for the possible improvement of this text, considering, of course, that it is necessary to pass this law, because it does not speak of information, but rather of how Mr. Banjac has corrected it, from the title to the text will have to be adapted to it. The name must be adapted to the text provided for here. I suggest that the proposings take a look at this Article 3 point 2d, the definition of a public body in this section is unclear, it could actually be misused, so I suggest that it be clarified. In Article 16, where multiplication costs are mentioned, I suggest that it be reshape in the sense that it is either not charged or deleted, that the first 10 pages are not charged. Article 19, I believe that Article 19 of a crowd of administrations, that it is not necessary to appoint a special official who would do this, but that it can be done within the framework of the service as it is organised. 55 I join these proposals which have been made here, concerning the Ombudsman institution. I mean, in that sense, it's already been discussed on the Constitutional Commission. Data is a suggestion that the proposings will surely adopt and adapt this institution to the situation as it is, these provisions of this member adapt to the situation as it really is today. In fact, we still don't have an ombudsmen at the state level. This law does not provide for provisions relating to sanctions unless they comply with the provisions of this law. However, there is one provision in Article 23, paragraph 2, which states that no provision of this law prevents a natural or legal person from complaining in a administrative procedure or from ensuring consideration by the court. It's pretty vague around here. Of course, if the right of an individual is violated, he can do so in administrative proceedings or in court, but it is the right thing to do, and whether sanctions should be regulated in this law at all. Finally, what I was saying about the cost of multiplication is related to Article 25, and this is to be seen, and in Article 26, the name itself does not correspond, namely, is spoken, relations with other laws, cannot exist relations with other laws, but rather relationships with other laws, in any case, relationships between persons and not between laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6158	Thank you very much. I think we've circled quite this debate. No Niko's answered for the hearing again. Can we agree to accept these remarks that we have heard from the promoters and to accept this draft as a quality basis for the adoption of the bill, so I am putting it to the vote. Who's up for a proposal like this, a plan that goes? Who's against it? So, of the 26 present - 24 voted in favour, and 2 voted against. We don't need an entity statement. In any case, this bill has received the required majority. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.7. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the People's Republic of China on Trade and Economic Cooperation This is an agreement on ratification. I'm opening a debate, or you might want to make a statement about this. Does anyone have a discussion? There isn't. Can we accept this in terms of whether we agree to this agreement? Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 26 present. All 26 for it. Therefore, the result is clear that this was adopted. 56 8. Information on events in Janja, Bocinja and other BiH places in connection with preventing refugee returns and displaced persons. The college has one proposal that, please, listen. As much as we've adopted this point at this House, the fact is that Mr. Secretary of the Resort Minister here we don't have. We have not received any specific information, suggestions for this item to be postponed for the next or one of the next sessions, when we receive quality information for the purpose of making this point more efficient, with the duty of the minister to do his part of the job. Mr. Raguž to deliver information to this home within 15 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6159	As far as this agenda is concerned, I'd like to make my point. It's about who we're gonna put in charge of this information. We were here today saying it was necessary to do so by the Minister of Human Rights. No Niko here mentioned that the Home Office should do the same. If they wanted to give some information, they couldn't give the information themselves, without the information they'd get from the Home Office. I don't think we can borrow this ministry, or say that we can't talk about this, because Mr. Secretary isn't here, we can do it without it, if we have information, but with his information, we have to have information from the MUP. So, I propose, or I support this proposal from the College, that we discuss this at the next session, with the preparation of information, but not in that sense, that this minister is obliged to do so, but from the competent institutions to obtain information.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6160	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić, and this proposal, as far as I'm concerned, we can adopt or declare it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6161	Chairmans, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, MPs, I find it extremely inconclusive that the College, after discussing all possible issues, after hours and hours spent on whether to leave 30, 29 or 31 days for the BiH presidency to be replaced, and I do not know what questions and positioning this item of the agenda on the periphery of today's work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, suggests that it be taken down by the next session until when, if we have this trend, we will have several more Janja, Bočinja and I do not know what activities either. In this context, not wanting to take away your time, I believe that this is the most direct blow to the responsibility of MPs in this high house and the best indicator of the relations between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to bear some responsibility for what is happening in the country. As for Mrs Havel's discussion, indeed, you must bear in mind that BiH, at the level of BiH, is not and should not have the Ministry of the Interior, that it is decentralised, and how the Ministry of Refugees, or the Ministry of Human Rights, works, is the thing we wanted to see today and check how this portfolio, which is in the jurisdiction of the BiH central institutions, works at all. 57 I will repeat, I am facing organised resistance, politically organised resistance to the return of refugees and exiled, with the aim of stopping the implementation of Annex 7, with the aim of national homogenisation and the deterioration of the overall political and security situation. I wanted to evaluate this dramatic state, not just in these two places, to be quite clear. Janja is the most dramatic state and cannot be compared by the intensity of violence, everything that happened in that place, to other places, and in Bocinj there has been prevention in many other places, but indeed it is unacceptable for me to go over this point of the agenda and let this be an explanation why we will vote against the College proposal, that refugees, the return of refugees, life issues, be put back on the periphery of some further and further sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6162	This is not put on the periphery, but even giving an accent of value, or the importance of this one. Mrs. Perkanović, Mr. Deretić and Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Raščić, then Mr. Špirić. I'm asking you not to sharpen the situation. It's the same for all of us, that this problem is done to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6163	I'm not familiar with any fact that the SDP gentlemen did anything on the ground not to have such incidents, except they keep running the H.I.E.L.D. type back, not taking care of the rights of all refugees. Calling on violence and the use of force, to return a part of the refugees, did not advocate resolving refugee issues and problems, it is a deep problem. Gentlemen, there are 80% of people living in Janja who have been expelled from the Federation of BiH... which is burned to the ground. Do not discuss it without arguments and without a wider view of the problem. You're a civil option, as far as I know. But a civil option that looks at only one nation and one direction. You'd have to look wider.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6164	Please, don't call yourself a party name. Please, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6165	Well, unfortunately, he just called. This is a replica. That it was an organized resistance return. Mr Tokić, it is not about the resistance to return, but about the inconsistencies of the Commission for displaced persons who do not respect a two-way return. There must be something to be done, in order to enable the return of the person to the Federation of BiH. What was done on that plan? Nothing. Is security secure? It's not. Is the existence of these people enabled? It's not. There's a lot of demands to return apartments and housing rights, which I often mention here, and that the answers are negative. Thirty houses burned down in Glamoch. Why Serbian? Is that for the purpose of coming back? And a lot more of those questions. So we cannot qualify here to create a resistance to return, but not to solve refugee issues systematically and in both directions, i.e. there is no co-operation in terms of resolving refugee issues. No case has been solved for the people whose property was destroyed. Where they go, so someone can come where they are. I'm talking about all three peoples, Mr. Tokić. This isn't just about one people. I support Mr Skopljak, and I support this proposal to provide accurate information on 58 of all events, so that we do not predicate here, discuss without arguments, unfounded, predatedly, but rather wait for information and really discuss what was happening on the ground and what is happening on the ground, and in the meantime, I suggest that we all do the utmost to address refugee issues systematically, that no human, citizen of BiH is in a situation of discrimination. People are getting solutions for de-action, and their property is usurped and not evicted and not allowed to return. People don't protest the mirage, protest lawlessness in the process of carrying out the mirage.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perkanović. Please don't go into the duels. Mr. Tokić has a replica. We need quality information here to conduct a proper discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6167	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, if we were to simulate, if I were behind this speaker, the esteemed College would probably try to interrupt me five times. I'm asking that this issue that this ambassador's representative is talking about come to the agenda, and I really haven't said anything at all, but that we need to consider it. After one of these salva accusations, I don't know what kind of throws, dramatics, it's said, and that's why, the only conclusion was wrong, and that's why he says: everything I said we shouldn't discuss today. There's something wrong with it, as it's not right in the fact that... in his discussion he mostly talked about extremely big problems. I stressed that I was standing at the point that there are resistances to returning refugees and exiled, organized, I didn't say who I meant, and you stood up right away and said I wanted to replicate because you said there was an organized resistance. What she did there, the subconscious, I don't know, but I still insist that this item of the agenda be put on the table and ask the Ministry's representative to say, because we are already discussing this issue and we can't expect spectacular data here, but we can open up a problem and introduce this problem into the responsibility of the central institutions, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, which we have never had a chance to see where the problems are in operation, in solving this problem in the ministry. We simply need to talk about it here, because I do not believe that the ministry is newly formed and that it can immediately function in a way that these difficult, very complicated issues, complex issues are resolved. I'm not in the mood for replicas, and as for the position of the SDP, his pledge to return refugees and exiles, for members of all three nations, with you, ma'am, I'm ready, especially with your party, to polish from here, so I don't know what part. I didn't mention the party, sir. Why didn't you answer when the lady mentioned the party?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6168	Please, Mr. Tokić, I've reacted, but it's a matter of civilization how much someone will accept a response. Please report to the replica Mrs. Balta, Mrs. Perkanović and Mr. Banjac. Please, let's make a humane deal here. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6169	I beg you, especially this Mr. Ambassador Tokić. So please don't do this to yourself. You're doing yourself the biggest bear favor if you call the party behind which most of the people are behind you. That's what I'm telling you. It's no good. Don't take it anywhere. The passions that we don't need right now are scattered. New emotions are born that also suppress consciousness. Whenever emotions appear, they suppress consciousness. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6170	I must admit, in an attempt to be objective, that we call each other without need.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6171	I apologize if Mr. Tokić misunderstood me. I didn't mention SDP in terms, precisely because you were acting on a one-way basis, and all the time you're standing in front of it, above all else? Why didn't you, when you mentioned one question, mention all the questions in BiH's premises, because you care about the civil option and civil BiH, then I think you should think about the global situation. But we're not going to replicate it. I didn't come out to replicate. You said I didn't want to discuss it, and I took part in a motion for a debate here. I want to discuss, far from not being, but I accept that we wait for information and then we argue on the basis of information.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6172	Excuse me, Mrs. Balta has a replica, so Mr. Dokić has a replica. You just didn't tell me it was a replica, but you answered in the debate, so at least I understood here. I don't understand who's answering.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6173	Dear colleagues, I think this is how it happens when things get out of hand. Mr. Skopljak, I believe a discussion has developed that is not the place to be at the moment. If it is, then it'll last till 11:00 tonight, or 11:00, because we all have something to say, of course. I suggest you give parole, or whatever you want, or we'll move on with discussions and replicas or we'll stop and we'll say we're looking for detailed information from the Departments of Refugees and Displaced Persons, both entity and this ministry. Furthermore, I don't know why, sir, the replica between Tokić and Mrs Perkanović, there is no need. A single large centre, which solves many problems, will arrive centrally in Sarajevo. So, the situation of Sarajevo and janje, so these big centres, it's not a problem at all, it defines it now, to solve whether we're still discussing it or not, or whether we can prepare the information and prepare the MPs, please. Thank you very much. It's really too much, it's 7 o'clock, it's really too much. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6174	Well, we, like the College, have made our proposal that hits these. Mr. Dokić had a line long ago, as I find out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6175	I would ask the Kolegijum, and this is my answer to the initial proposal. We have adopted the agenda today, and you have now given the clagort to many who have already opened the debate, which is not on the agenda. I want to read to you, it's on the agenda information about events, etc. It could've been just a question of whether anyone here had information. This isn't even a debate that some started before the information, so why don't you have so much patience that, if the information is, let's see if there's anyone to give the information, so on that basis, eventually, we see if that's enough information or not enough information, but I've come up with another underline that we're not having a discussion about this today, but we're going to hear the information, and then we're going to evaluate whether that gives it, that information, enough for any further activity. I'm asking you to call the Department of Refugees if there's anyone here to provide us with information. If there isn't, then we can talk about some other elements.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6176	Unfortunately, at first, I said that we do not have a minister here, Mr. Deretić answered, so Mr. Raščić, so Mr. Špirić, so Mr. Malkić. I'm hoping for an argument, I don't know what else. Mr. Špirić, do you have the information we're looking for here at that agenda point? Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6177	It would be desirable for Mr. Špirić to give the information, and I'll do it afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6178	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, this item of the agenda was included at the session itself and it was illogical to expect written information, but since we are the newly established ministry, since this is a problem to deal with on a daily basis, I will try to give that level of information that the ministry can give at this time. I am sorry to say that the way the debate has been conducted so far will not solve any human rights violations in BiH. But I just want to draw attention to you that this ministry was established 20 days ago, that some of the jobs related to refugees and displaced persons in BiH were located at the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, that we were, in the assessment of the BiH Council of Ministers and the part of representatives of the international community, with whom we managed to carry out part of the talks and communication, assessed as a ministry that could give a new tone, not only to the Council of Ministers, but a new tone of resolving burning problems, in terms of human rights violations and the protection of the rights of refugees and displaced at BiH level. I also want to tell you that in the programme of work of the Ministry of Human Rights, which is in preparation, it is a platform that will be verified at the Council of Ministers 61 BiH, I would like to conclude that if we were not attacked, but first asked to make a statement, so we would eventually give their suggestions. We have experienced little and bad words, but I, esteeming this home, your concern as an MP, because I've sat here for a year and a half and I know what it means to ask the Council of Ministers for information, especially if people don't want to give it away, has information. I would like to say to Mr. Tokić that the right to fight for human rights will not be exhausted in BiH by one assembly debate, or by any story in this House, but by what the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees will do, which I would like to introduce you to. We made the decision to, regarding Annex 7 and Annex 6. By the end of August, the Dayton Peace Agreement, we have detailed information at BiH level to be discussed by the Council of Ministers and will be discussed, for the first time in BiH at the next session or session in September of this representative council. So that was our assignment. We collect this information, given that we're the new ministry, to team up every day. Today, at the meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers, we have decided that, simply in the budget rebalancing, we will need your support, in order to mitigate this level of problem at BiH level ourselves, to cut resources linearly to all users and inject into projects related to the return and concrete resolution of refugee issues. You know, so far, there's been an opinion that if the international community wants to return, they should pay. If he wants to reform the legal system, he can pay, if he wants economic reform... he can pay. This Council of Ministers, this ministry cultivates a completely different style and will contribute to concrete resolution. We, regarding these cases that you have mentioned both for Bocinja and for Janja and for Srebrenica and for Drvar and for Glamoc and for Sarajevo and for all places, have requested written information from the competent institutions of entities, municipalities and cantons, so that we can inform the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on the basis of valid data, and not on the basis of personal impressions, developments on the ground, which will be more and more from day to day. I also want to tell you that in a short time, we have negotiated a joint strategy with the co-ordination board of refugees and displaced at the level of BiH, with the Helsinki Committee, to address burning problems with NGOs and with representatives of the international community. I must tell you that for a short time we have seen in the ministry that BiH, at the level of human rights violations, simply belongs to those countries where human rights are being violated at every turn. In this regard, it is recorded, and we are working on data collection, discrimination on a national basis, party, political basis, full, discrimination on return, application of property laws, human trafficking, women and children at BiH level, domestic violence, minority rights, etc. In order to help these people, BiH citizens, this area must be legally regulated. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, as part of the Council of Ministers, will prepare for September a series of legislative projects that this matter will in one appropriate way try to regulate, and in this sense we will need the support of this representative council. I must tell you that for a short time we have noticed that BiH has become a destination for illegal trafficking in human beings, drugs, prostitution, money laundering, etc. No congregation debate will solve that problem except valid legal projects, so please ask for what the ministry is doing. Once we get feedback from the competent institutions, we will forward this information to the 62th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH representative council. So I ask you, in the interest of protecting these people whose fates were at stake, which represented a long manipulative category in the political, legal and economic sense of this country, to literally stick to helping these people give an additional, not increasing situation, but soberly, to try to solve these problems. This is what I can tell you on behalf of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, in agreement with Minister, Mr Raguž and Mr Haverić, who were prevented from attending until the end of this session, and in that sense, I would like to apologize for not being here. I want to make it clear to you that this ministry will give a new tone in terms of fighting for the protection of human rights in the BiH area. I know there's gonna be a lot of polemic tones, but I'd like someone to give me a formula in any way now, every focal point can be regulated or prevented by this assembly debate. This ministry doesn't run away to be in the field every day, where there are burning problems, but it has to have legal mechanisms to fight, to help. I ask you not to turn these problems regarding the majority of BiH citizens into pre-election campaigns, so please help the newly elected ministry, wait, look at these problems, offer legal projects and offer for the first time information related to Annex 7 and Annex 6. The Dayton Peace Agreement. In that sense, thank you for your patience and for the information we're hearing, which I don't have, I don't have the exact data of the competent institutions, I can't comment on, because that would not be appropriate to the function I'm performing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6179	With an apology to Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6180	Unfortunately, I expected the Honorable Deputy Minister to give us information, because he said he had information about events in Janja and Bocinja, but unfortunately there was nothing, but we'll probably have better luck next time. But, however, I'd like to say something else here. I, as normally as an MP and as a man, absolutely condemn every kind of violence, even a verbal form of violence, unfortunately, which we are even able to endure here in these congregation benches, and I condemn it as a man. However, what is happening, unfortunately, in Bocinj, in Janja, in other places of BiH, is only the result of what we are a little bit of sitting here for, as MPs in these assembly benches, guilty. Why? I remember well, in these underage two years, as an MP, I have heard a lot of initiatives here from fellow MPs who now do not even have the patience to listen to me for what I am about to say, that at all costs there is going to be a return, regardless of the fact, a return, not the other two rights provided for by the Dayton Agreement, and that there are no objective conditions on the ground at all, so the following things are happening to us, that the competent institutions and in either entity do not implement even those legal regulations that have been passed by entity congregations, parliaments. These same authorities, along with entity governments, have not even secured, along with the international community, because it is, however, behind the early implementation of Annex 7. The Dayton Agreement, financial means to ensure the minimum conditions, or what 63 is called alternative accommodation for those people who objectively have no place to go back, because they're all ruined. This is what I say, here I think of returnees in both entities. Unfortunately, what's going on in Janja is happening, in my deep conviction, because I'm doing a lot of cruises around BiH, across and around, in all of the city, just maybe in a much lighter way. Now we're in a position to move people out, not to provide them with alternative accommodation. There are 37,000 refugees in Prijedor, people are moving out, there's nowhere to move out, we're creating social cases, we're creating exactly that category of people who'll be the easiest to specialize in arms, bombs, etc. And lead to what happened. In this context, I absolutely support that we open a very serious discussion on this point, and in this context, I will be free to use my parliamentary right to point out what is being done in entities by those institutions that are authorized to implement these laws, that certain administrations of housing do not enforce legal regulations, that they violate the law on changes and additions to the law on the sale of apartments, specifically here in the Federation of BiH, that people are limited to the possession of their apartments, to buy them out, to replace them, to sell them, to dispose of them in any way, it is an ecstatic violation of human rights, unfortunately, which we face in BiH at every turn. This is what we have to draw here at these meetings in any case, and I am particularly pleased to note that lately I have to put pressure on the most responsible authorities and in one and the other entity to just not put pressure on the return, it is only one of the rights of the people, but, behold, now it will probably open very quickly to the possibility that citizens have their property, to sell it and to replace it, under the most normal conditions, that rule in, indeed, normal democratic countries. In that context, I absolutely support the initiative and this point, but we need to expand, because what happened, that information is not enough for this most legislative body. We need to say what the conditions are and what this has led to all this happening on the ground.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6181	Thank you very much, Mr. Deretić. I agree it's too serious a discussion. Mr. Raščić, Mr. Malkić, then Mr. Tokić. We're deep in the debate, and the real information, in fact, forgive my expression, is gone. I don't think this is some kind of serious debate. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6182	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow MPs, I commend the House's decision to introduce on the agenda information with the situation in BiH in these crisis areas. I think it's too ambitious to expect at this meeting today that we get information about events in different places on issues that are due to, like, eight-year conflict situations. I don't think we can just burden the Department of Human Rights to deal with this problem. It is my suggestion that this matter should be dealt with by the entire Council of Ministers, in cooperation with entity governments, to ask for the assistance of OHR, OSCE and UNHCR, institutions responsible for implementing the Dayton Agreement, and to reveal, in the context of these activities, the persons, organisations and others, to say, the institutions which make it impossible to implement the Dayton Agreement. The Dayton Agreement is clear. The rights of people to their commitment are made possible by the Dayton Agreement, and without 64 of us there is no solution in BiH. By stalling and not solving these problems, I think we're bringing the whole country into one radicalization of the situation and I'm afraid that unless we encourage this kind of cooperation between the Council of Ministers and entity governments, there may be an escalation of the situation, which is evident in the means of information. I think they're even reduced, usually reduced. The tragedy is severe. I support this activity, I support the will of all MPs, to form this item of the agenda, which suggests that we are interested in solving these problems. I think it's in our best interest to regulate it in one correct way. All open issues through committees, through institutions, I think they can be opened up and I think it's the right way to implement the Dayton Agreement and from this country to create a correct and civilized environment. I don't think it's in our best interests, no one, that this many young people leave this country because they don't see a closer perspective of economic development in this country. I think that those of us who want to stay in this country, too, must make an ambience, in which we will all be nice and who we will be able to fight for our destiny and our happiness. The Council of Ministers with entity governments, OHR, OSCE, UNHCR, institutions that are responsible for this and that we are specifically going into activities. I think it's incorrect, to say again, to just put in charge of the Ministry of Human Rights, etc., to deal with this problem and possibly inform us of what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6183	We are opening a process in which I include our Parliament with your proposals. Mr. Malkić, then Mr. Tokić. We can argue, but we can't conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6184	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, we have entered the debate phase, and the fact is that we have no information, because the deputy minister misinformed us that we have information. However, today, not wanting to prejudge the matter, I have sent the College a proposal on the agenda for the next session and that is information on the implementation of Annex 7. The General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, which would, above all, address the following issues, who and how it works on returning, namely the realisation of Annex 7. Then, what is the implementation of the property laws, how many persons have returned and how many recovery claims have been resolved, and what conditions do returnees live in? Secondly, what is the role and how much they have done on the return of the next international organization, as well as our individual governments. First of all, I mean the OHR, i.e. the Department of Reconstruction and Return, UNHCR and other international organisations in BiH, then the BiH Council of Ministers, entity governments, cantons and municipalities, and NGOs, both domestically and internationally and others that worked on the realization of Annex 7, i.e. the return. About 3-4 months ago, through the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, we sent a letter to the BiH Council of Ministers with similar content and we have not yet received an answer on this issue. Please, at the next session, get information on the realisation of Annex 7, and put the agenda on the table. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6185	Thank you, Mr. Malkić. I absolutely agree with this approach, but you see how many questions we're principles, and we don't have an answer to either one of them. Therefore, I believe that this process should be done thoroughly. We don't have a quorum, and we do, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6186	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, as proposing this item of the agenda, I really cannot hide my indignation with the alleged information we had here and the obvious logic that the slogan system is working slowly, on this issue today in this way, with full respect for the discrepancies, I think at least some of these ministers or dominants must have been on the scene, at the greatest points of return of the refugees and exile. I think this is an excessive relationship, an inadmissible relationship, and it's obvious that this problem, by analogous to what we've had so far, is going to move from the session to the next session, and at each next session, again, as the last item of the agenda. I cannot, as a man and as an MP accept this information, really, I must, with great respect, have the courage to go out for this pay phone, at this point in the agenda, with this alleged information, I, on behalf of the SDP Parliament Club, are inadmissible to have this as information from the minister. Of course, other MPs pointed out that, but to Malkić and others, these are your ministers, your ministry, let me apologize to Hilmo, but again, I didn't expect anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6187	Please, don't get into those expressions and duels. Mr. Špirić, replica or what? It doesn't make sense, we're tired now, and this is too serious a debate. We need to do a process in which we will participate constantly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6188	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it clear to you that it is time for us to respect each other, because that too falls within the realm of human rights. I now have to remind Mr Tokić, unrelated to this information, I think it was, indeed, anyone who wants to seriously discuss, illustratively at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, so we are looking for some type of written information, and what kind of information we would be in the BiH Council of Ministers that, on the basis of arbitrary decisions, personal impressions, we are writing information for the most legislative body in BiH. I must remind you that Nikola Špirić, as an MP, spoke about Bočinja a year and a half ago, now I happen to mention it and remember now how we discussed Bocinja, today more and more neural points in BiH are growing every day, because the problems have not been solved for years. BiH has no economic power to solve them. When we push economic reforms, we will be in a position to deal with these problems more quickly. I said the conclusion of the BiH Ministry and Council of Ministers is that for the first time we will submit information to the BiH Council of Ministers and to this home regarding the implementation of Annex 7 and Annex 6. The Dayton Peace Agreement, in just two months, of the ministry. If you think this is the time of pre-election campaigns where someone 66 will talk to whose Council of Ministers or whose it is not, you can do it freely, and I assure you that it will not solve the problems on the ground and that the degree of human rights violations is so much that it will take a long time to bring them down into normal frames. We saw it, simply, as serious people asked those who were obliged to have it so that we could discuss it with each other. I beg you, you are MPs, serious people. Help your ministry and tell us where the information is, if there is one. Unless it's a political story. But we, as responsible people, cannot, based on unverified information, information that doesn't come from measuring institutions, to inform you, would be inconclusive. It may be a conclusion as far as we're concerned, that complete information for the realization of Annex 7 and Annex 6 is submitted, which is our conclusion, therefore, of this ministry, and I think it's premature of the new ministry, which is being requested, even from the old ministries, written information at the moment this Parliament is scheduled. I have formally explained to you what we are doing, as a ministry, what we know and when we can submit information about this level of human rights violations at BiH level, which I have told you about where everything is present. I'd like to ask that we respect each other. I don't mind at all. Mr. Tokić, I don't mind your style, and I have to tell you that I really don't mind. If you can and if you have courage, no, courage, let's say now, you really should have, I don't know what you have to have, so look for some points on those people, politically. I speak as an MP, Mr. Tokić. Well, when I vote for your bill, it's possible, and when I speak like this, it's impossible. Please nicely, I beg you, as responsible men and MPs, therefore, to seek something that is logical and something that is possible. You all know the limitations.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6189	Can we round up this debate with a proposal like this? We ask the RES to provide us with quality information by next session, and let them ask the following ministries for whatever they want. But to us here to deliver measuring, justifiable and real information by the next session. Do you agree with this conclusion? I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in? The proposal was for the Resort Ministry to give quality information, clearly in writing, until the next session, and on the basis of this quality, real information, we are having a debate at the next... Here you go, Mr. Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6190	The BiH Council of Ministers reports on the situation regarding these... and that this parliament is discussing each session, and that it knows how far this issue has come. [[You don't hear enough from the place.]] What is, indeed, worrying and human worrying that with a little dignity we are talking about... It's a disaster that we're getting high here and we're lying to each other here 67 and we're outsmarting each other, and all people are barely surviving, no matter where they come from, no matter where they're from, no matter where they are, these people, as people, deserve to go back to their homes and ask you to make a deal. A little more dignity and a little more wisdom and wisdom. Gentlemen of the BiH Council of Ministers... that you submit each session to Parliament and that there are no more decisions. Give me some... one such conclusion. We have nothing to conclude now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-27-0.u6191	Thank you very much, Mr. Pamuk, I wish you'd said that in a microphone, that we have a stenogram, but, as far as I'm concerned, can this conclusion go to the BiH Council of Ministers, once again? We will remind the BiH Council of a commitment we have already made to them several times. Who's to this conclusion? Ask them to. Who's against it? Does anyone have a problem with this formulation? Mr. Raščić, we have said here Decedibly, and the Council of Ministers of BiH can consult all other institutions it deems necessary to obtain quality information. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item, the 9th item of the agenda. Ad.9. Answers to MPs' questions and questions What have we got, you got in writing, here you go, any other questions? There isn't. Thank you very much. The session is over. The seat's closed at 7:35.
