ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u373	I am opening the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Gentlemen delegates, MPs, respected representatives of international organisations, members of the Council of Ministers, media representatives, since this is the first session of this year, I want to wish you all once again a lot of health and successful work, as well as to repeat our congratulations to the citizens, the peoples of BiH, with a desire to make this year better for all the peoples and citizens of BiH. For the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the following 1. The adoption of the minutes by 8. 9th and 11th sessions; 2nd To give consent to the ratification of the Agreement under the Paris Club of Trustees between the United States, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Confederation of Switzerland, Spain, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Kingdom of Norway and Canada, the Republic of France and the Kingdom of Denmark. For each of these agreements, you have received a draft agenda, when calling for a session, the institution for these agreements is the individual organisations which are specifically listed here, for each of these agreements. Also, it's like another point for ratification of those contracts. For the third point, I suggest 3. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for the period January - September 1999; 4. Draft Budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for BiH for 2000; 5. Draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000; 6. Report on the public debate carried out, a statement by the motion on drafts (a) Election Law, motion by delegate Drago Ljubičić, (b) Election Law, proposing a group of SDP Members; 2 7. Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 1.1 to 1.12.1999; 8. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat; 9. Draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Public Corrections of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković; 12. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, (a) Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposed MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, (b) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Council of Ministers, Proposed by MP Vito Rakić; 13. Law on holidays and holidays in BiH, a) Proposal for a holiday law in BiH, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, (b) Draft law on holidays and holidays in BiH; 14. Draft law on the formation of BiH institutions; 15. Draft law on the procedure and conclusion of the execution of international contracts and 16. Legislative questions. Before declaring the agenda, I find that we have a quorum and that it is present, from the order of Bošnjak 4 MPs, i.e., delegates, from the order of the Hrvat 3 delegates, i.e. MPs, from the order of RS 3 MPs, i.e. delegates, by informing me that Mr Tošić was late informed of the holding of today's session and that during the sittings itself he will catch us up and join the work of this session. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, can we make a statement on the proposed agenda? Who's to adopt a agenda like this? Thank you. Since we unanimously adopted the agenda, we move to Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes at 8, 9 and 11 sessions will be the first minutes of the 8th session, then the 9th session, and then the 11th session at this point. I'm having a debate with the 8th session. Does anyone have any objections, suggestions? If not, who is for the adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Thank you. I understand that we unanimously adopted the 8th-session record. I am having a debate with the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Any objections? If not, I am giving the minutes from the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Who's in favor of adopting this record? Thank you very much. I also find that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 3 I am having a debate with the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Any objections? If there's no one to answer my question, I'd like to make a statement about the record. Who is for the adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Moving to point two. Ad.2. Giving consent to ratification of the treaty Here you have received, in the proposed agenda, 18 agreements between, mainly, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of certain countries. Is there a need to declare ourselves individually about each of these agreements or to vote in the package, by stressing that the House of Representatives' conclusion was about giving consent to ratification, that all the names of the agreement should comply with the names of BiH institutions, which are given in constitutional solutions. I think professional services have done their part of the job and have brought the names in line with the BiH Constitution. It is mainly about the mention of the BiH government, and the BiH Council of Ministers stands in the constitution, and I think that this has already been corrected in preparation for this session. That was the conclusion of the House of Representatives, which I should have said, given that the correction was made in accordance with this conclusion, I don't think we should adopt it. Is there a need for a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers to say something about these agreements?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u375	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you have seen, there are 18 agreements between BiH and governments, states and associations and I would separate these agreements into two groups. The first group of 12 agreements are agreements to regulate BiH's pre-war debts with 12 states, and the second group of agreements are trade co-operation agreements and the second group of agreements is about protecting investment. When it comes to the first 12 agreements, you received the amounts of debts that BiH had in the Paris Club of Trustees and, as you know, in the negotiations in October 1998, we achieved 67% of the debt, and then the rest of the debt was reprogrammed in two ways. One group is 22 years old, and the other group is 33 years old. Also, you have received the text of an agreement on the obligations of BiH stemming from such a type of reprogramme and allocation agreement, i.e., how much of the entities belong and you have received a depreciation list, i.e. the exact amounts and times and periods when we will repay and pay those debts. Let me tell you straight away that all the debts that BiH had before 1992 and in spirit with the Foreign Debt Act and in spirit with the former SFRY being guaranteed, and BiH continued to take over those guarantees. We were obliged, as a BiH state, to assume these obligations, to make agreements with individual countries in spirit with the 4 Record of Reprogramme and Forgiveness of Debt and to regulate our obligations in this way. I am at my disposal, and if there are any questions about each of the concrete agreements, so I would like to say that we have reached a pretty good agreement with the Paris Club of Trustees, and if we were to ask the question of where we are in relation to the other countries that have been created by the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, have we achieved better or worse conditions. We have achieved far better conditions than all of our former SFRY members have. In fact, we're the only ones who get 67% of the debt, and then the reprogramme. When it comes to the other four countries that are still members of the Paris Club of Trustees, which do not cover this set of agreements, it is Italy, Japan, Kuwait and the Russian Federation. I would like to inform you that, meanwhile, with Italy, we succeeded in December, to collect all relevant information and data and to make an agreement, which the Council of Ministers of BiH has adopted. We haven't been able to share all the data and information with Japan yet. Kuvajt and I have completed completely, however, because the unaltered debt at Kuwait, i.e., the former SFRY took credit for all the republics together. In line with IMF recommendations, BiH fell 13.2%, and then in BiH, each entity will belong to a percentage of what belongs to the Paris Club of Trustees, and as soon as we finish with these two countries, Italy and Japan, Kuwait will be able to deploy. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, I would like to tell you immediately that BiH is a bigger trustee than it is in debt, and we will have to open talks and negotiations with them, but we have signed a letter on the intentions in which the Russian Federation has accepted that fact and accepted our request that these negotiations be particularly guided, given the two problems that are present. These were agreements between the former SFRJ and the former Soviet Union and, according to everything that's happened, it will take a long time to gather all relevant information and data and then reach a final agreement. It's also the point of view of the Paris Club of Trustees and the IMF, and we probably won't be able to finish this deal so soon. We'll try to make it in 2000, but if it happens later, it'll be good. The second group of agreements are agreements on trade co-operation between BiH and the countries that have (?) and about protecting investments. It is the classic agreements of such a species that allow, above all, business people from BiH and other countries to be able to achieve benefits that are in the international regulations. When it comes to the treatment of the country's most favourable trade with which we sign, i.e. when it comes to protecting investment, it is an agreement that allows all investments made in BiH from the country with which we sign the agreement to have protection from so-called. political risk, i.e. of all forms of expropriation, nationalisation, etc. If that happens, then the state, as a participant in this whole process, needs to defile the side that is damaged. These are agreements that will certainly encourage more investment from these countries in the coming period, but at the same time encourage trade and other economic relations with those countries, i.e. with its citizens. All of this before you has been considered by the BiH Council of Ministers. It gave its positive opinion, and I suggest, on behalf of the promoter, that these agreements be accepted in 5 texts as said, with the remark that Mr. Chairman said at the outset.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u376	Thank you very much, Minister Kurtović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? If there are no debaters involved in these agreements, I would ask that we make a statement on granting consent to ratify these agreements. I suggest we vote in the package on all 18 agreements, as given in the agenda. Who is for the package of these agreements, i.e. to give consent to ratify these 18 agreements given in the agenda? Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we have unanimously adopted, i.e., agreed to ratify all the agreements provided for in this agenda. Ad.3. A report on the implementation of the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January - September 1999 Since the same agenda was adopted at the House of Representatives and, by other points of the agenda, we do not have the views or conclusions of the House of Representatives for individual drafts, laws, individual decisions, there was a need for further harmonisation, giving certain reasons, I suggest that I interrupt here with further work, with what the College has proposed, today we have had the College, and we propose, in case, tomorrow, the House of Representatives adopts certain laws that I consider necessary and necessary for the further functioning of the Council of Ministers of BiH and some of the obligations arising from these laws under domestic and international organisations, that tomorrow, after a joint session of both homes, we maintain the continuation of the sessions under those laws, according to those points which will be held at the meeting session tomorrow in the House in the House, we attempt to adopt them ourselves. That's about the conclusion given by the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u377	I am not against this conclusion adopted by the College, and I will be for it. I am not against the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations states that all points of the agenda are first considered and adopted at the House of Representatives, and then at the House of Peoples, unless this is required by certain special circumstances to consider the House of Peoples. I may not have the right, but given the way the House of Representatives works, I think that in the future we will have to consider some points of the agenda before they are adopted by the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has long considered some points, leading some polemics that are often not in line with their agenda. I listen to you debates, and I think that we, as the House of Nations, will have to discuss once and for all the points of the agenda that the House of Representatives did not consider and did not adopt. I believe that the House of Peoples, I will say freely, would not conduct such discussions infertile, not to say a stronger word, and then to reach out to the High Representative to pass and impose laws on us, because whenever the High Representative imposes laws, it is a step two back for the work of BiH institutions, especially the BiH Parliament. I must say, unfortunately, 6 of all the institutions of BiH that have worked so far, that the BiH Parliament is doing, however, the worst. I think we're going to have to open the debate once that it's the House of Peoples that can say and veto both vital interests and everything else, but it's not just about that, it's the House that needs to discuss all the issues equally, because there's not a single decision, a legislative decision that they don't need to make both homes. We can imagine how far back we've gone because we haven't passed the Border Service Act, but it's being imposed by a high representative, and it's also going to be with other laws if we don't compromise. The compromises are necessary and we'll have to stick to it. I went out for this, not because I didn't support the College. I support and repeat the College, because it is also in the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, but I can criticise me at the House of Representatives as much as I will, but I think that most of their discussions are infertile and that it does not contribute to the affirmation of the BiH Parliament, nor to the implementation of the BiH Constitution and the General Peace Agreement, and that it is an institution, I repeat, for which all international institutions and factors have determined, however, that the institution is the worst working institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u378	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If not, can we adopt such a conclusion, with the invitation to attend to this meeting tomorrow, that is, the 12:30 session of both homes? Who's up for a proposal like this? Thank you very much. I'm closing today's session of the House of Peoples. The seat is finished at 13.50 a.m. 7 Continuing is 12. Sessions of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before the very beginning, I would like to apologize to the media for the delay, given that today is the House of the Federation and there have been some adjustments, before this session begins. So we apologize to them, and I welcome you all. I would like to welcome, at the beginning of this session, the gentleman from the Council of Europe who attends today's session, primarily Mr. Vojček Savik, Deputy Chief Sectarian of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mrs. Gelderbl – Lankhout, experts from the Vavet of Europe and Katarina Hugel, member of the Committee for Political Affairs of the Council of Europe. Welcome, and I'm glad they're taking part in today's work of this house. Before further work, at the points left for the board at the 12th session of the House of Peoples, I would ask that we make a statement, with God that the emergency material has arrived from the House of Representatives. It is the decisions of the Tatas axis that lays out the fugitives, who are refugees in BiH, who were adopted at the House of Representatives and are awaiting publication in the Official Journal. I would pray that only today, at the end of all these discussions, of all the laws that are on the agenda, that we make a statement about this decision, and that we put it in the agenda of this 12th session, that we do not call a special session. I'd like to make a statement before that. I agree to accept a statement on a decision adopted by the House of Representatives on the status and position of persons refugees in BiH. Who is it that we are considering this decision today? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Restraint. I agree that we unanimously adopted to discuss the decision on the status and situation of the refugees in BiH. We're moving on to the work section of this session. 1. The budget plan of the BiH institution, and BiH's international commitments for 2000, means we are establishing the Budget Draft of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2000. I must tell you that this draft of the Budget has been adopted at the House of Representatives, with observations still being made on the draft of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the year 2000. I am opening a debate on the Budget Draft of the BiH Institution and the international obligations of BiH for the year 2000. 8 Since we also have representatives of the Council of Ministers here, we can also get answers to any questions. They are available and I from also welcome. Who answers the word. If it does not report, I propose that we make a statement on the draft budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2000, with the conclusion that within 7 days, delegates who have certain objections to delivery to the Parliamentary Assembly's Secretariat and that these remarks be processed and delivered until the final proposal of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the year 2000. Who is the BiH institution for the draft budget and international commitments for 2000? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously established the draft budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and international commitments for 2000, with the conclusion that it can serve as a basis for making the proposal. We're going to the next item on the agenda. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000 also states that the House of Representatives adopted the draft law, with certain remarks. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I would like to say about the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2000, with the conclusion that they will delegate their observations in written form of delivery within seven days to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, so that they can be forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers for a statement on the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for 2000. Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2000, with a conclusion. The next item of the agenda is the Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 1.1 to 1.12.1999 Since we do not declare ourselves, i.e. we are not adopting this information, we are merely taking it into account, as it is by the Rules of Procedure, we propose to discuss this information with one suggestion, i.e., with the possibility that, within seven days, possible suggestions and remarks to be delivered to the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in order to forward and declare to the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? 9 If it does not appear, I conclude the debate, with the conclusion that the information has been received, and the remarks can be delivered within seven days, in order to continue to be forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers. The motion for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat I Konstatuj that the House of Representatives adopted a Decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, along with an amendment that has been shared with you. The amendment is Mr Genjac, and this is about how officials are elected at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. I'm opening a debate. This is one of, to put it this way, the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe and has been under discussion for a long time, so we are in the finale of adopting this decision on the organisation. If no one answers, I conclude, along with the amendment of Mr. Genjac, which is given here. If no one is answering the question, I am closing the debate and I would like to ask that we make a statement on the Proposal for a Decision to be organised by the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, along with an amendment adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, it is the amendment of Mr Genjac, which reads: The corresponding college of home appoints a secretary at home. The College of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Peoples are jointly appointed as Secretary of the Joint Service. Decisions on those appointments shall be taken by consensus by all members. It's about that amendment. The rest of the amendment was not accepted so that it was an integral amendment from Mr Genjac, who was adopted at the House of Representatives. Can we speak out on the motion for a decision to organise the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, along with this amendment that I have read. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? One abstention. I find that we have adopted, with one vote abstention, without any objection, with one abstention. We're going to the next item on the agenda. The draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I must conclude that, too, for a long time, it has been done to draft the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and at the same time I would like to thank the members of the Secretariat, as well as the gentlemen of the PAR programme who have indeed done a lot to get a draft of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I am opening a debate under the draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Who's answering for a word? If no one is answering for a word, I am closing the debate with one conclusion, which is that within 10 days, written remarks are being delivered to the Rules of Procedure of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Commission which was formed for the making of the Rules of Procedure, which will prepare, for the College, the Proposed Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, since it is the proposer of this Rules of Procedure of the College of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Can we pass this bill with this conclusion? Who's in? Thank you very much. This time I find that we unanimously adopted the draft rules of procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with a conclusion. The proposal for a law on public documents in BiH did not come under the proposal for a law on public documents at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Certain amendments have been given, which will be processed by the next meeting of the House of Representatives. We propose, in front of the College, that we discuss the proposal for a Law on Public Corrections of BiH, by leaving the possibility that within 7 days all delegates, or MPs of this House, will deliver their written remarks, which could be forwarded further to the agreement, before we make a statement today, that we do not declare ourselves today on the Bill's Proposal, but only open the possibility of saying our opinions and delivering written opinions within seven days, one that we do not present today. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the conclusion. It means that within seven days, we should submit written remarks to the proposal for a Law on Public Corrections of BiH, in order to declare at the follow-up of the next session, the continuation of this 12th session of the House of Peoples. Are we in favour of delivering these remarks within seven days, so that, at the follow-up of this session, we can declare amendments, i.e., on the draft of the law. It is about amendments, remarks in the form of amendments. Is that what we're all about? Who's in? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted such a conclusion. The law on holidays and holidays of BiH Here we have two drafts of the BiH holiday law, the first proposal of the BiH holiday law, given by the proposings of Mr Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković. Right now, let me tell you about this law that it has been accepted as the basis for the bill's proposal. The remarks were submitted to the promoter and the draft law on holidays and holidays in BiH. The bill did not receive an entity majority, followed by an agreement at the House of Representatives' College on whether it could serve as the basis for the draft law. 11 It is also in one case and another about draft laws, regardless of the first formulation of the Bill on the Holidays of BiH, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, it is the form of the draft and the second is also the draft of the law on holidays and holidays in BiH. I'm putting them both in shape. We're pleading on the blueprints.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u380	I think we should pass a law on national holidays and that's our obligation. I could personally support, as drafts, and one and another Law on State Holidays, but the Law on State Holidays delivered by the BiH Presidency, unanimously, and I would personally support it, and I think that this law should be supported in the future, because it is very specific issues and I think it is issues that will be settled in BiH, so that we do not have the colour we now have in BiH. Personally, as far as I am concerned, and I believe others, that even when this law is proposed by the BiH presidency, because the BiH presidency is also an authorised proposer, we will support the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u381	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? If he doesn't answer, I'm voting both laws. First, a draft law on the holidays of BiH, which is proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković and this other draft law on holidays and holidays of BiH, with, regardless of the declaration, that is, if we declare that we support one or both draft laws, written remarks, amendments and suggestions to this law, should be delivered within seven days, meaning, as part of the conclusion, with the adoption of one or both draft laws. I am giving the first draft of the BiH holiday law, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković. Who's in? I'm getting three votes. Who's against it? Abstained? The law didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on a draft law on holidays and holidays in BiH. Who is the draft law on holidays and holidays in BiH, in front of the BiH presidency? Thank you very much. Who's against it? One against. Abstained 1. So we won. Mr. Ljubičić came out for a moment, then let's wait for a statement. Because of the entity majority, i.e. the MPs' club. For this reason, Mr Ljubičić received the full majority, i.e. the BiH holiday bill, given by the BiH presidency, received the required majority. There's no need to plead in clubs. The draft law on the BiH institutions has delayed the House of Representatives because no explanation has been provided in good time, and will be discussed at the next session, which was the case with them. In the 12th time there was an explanation and you have it, as delegates, or MPs. In addition to this point, we also propose, as the College, that delegates, or MPs, make their written remarks, if we establish it as the basis for the draft law on the BiH Institutions, that written remarks be delivered within seven days, i.e. amendments to the draft law, in order to determine the draft law. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a word. I'm closing the debate. Please state with this conclusion that within 7 days we will submit our amendments to the Draft Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. Who's for the BiH Institution's Draft Law? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? I find that we unanimously established the draft law on BiH institutions' vault, with the conclusion given. The next item of the agenda is the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts I note that this draft law has been adopted as the basis for the draft law. I'm opening a debate. If there are no debaters, I close the debate, with the conclusion that within seven days of delivery, those who wish, their amendments to the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, so that the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts can also be made. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you very much. I find that we have unanimously established the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and that this draft law can serve as the basis for the draft law. What we added to our debate at the beginning of the session, which is the decision on the status and position of persons refugees in BiH. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held at its meeting in 1.12.1999, adopted a decision on the status and position of persons refugees in BiH, and it is necessary to confirm or not confirm this decision, i.e. to make a statement on this decision at the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u382	In the last year, we adopted the Law on Immigration and Asylum, which fully addresses these issues on refugees and displaced persons. We also adopted the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons. When I got this decision and he read it and saw what the House of Representatives had adopted, I must say I was amazed. Why is such a decision and what is a decision that can solve and task entities to solve refugees and displaced persons, as they said, from the former AV Yugoslavia? It was never called the former Avigne Yugoslavia, it had other names, Yugoslavia, and after the war, the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, later named the Socialist Federative Republic of Yugoslavia, and never this name. I'm just talking about what's going on. Decisions cannot be made to address the issues of refugees and displaced persons only for one country or two countries, this can only be regulated by law and the law is governed. This decision has very much its own material requirements, and we, according to our refugees, there is Mr. Rečica, who has a lot in BiH today, we are compared to this decision as proposed in a discriminatory position.(?) How many of our refugees today are in collective and unconditional accommodations? This should also be seen as how our refugees work in these collective and unconditional accommodations. I'm not against any refugee, no matter what country he's from, he's the hardest, and I think it can only be dealt with by law. Right now, let me say that I speak for myself, and also on behalf of the Bosniak Club, we cannot support this decision in the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-01-17-0.u383	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a word? If it does not appear, I am closing the debate on the decision on the status and position of persons refugees in BiH. Who's in favour of this decision? 8. Who's against it? We don't have any abstentions. Then I need a club statement. Please state the Club of Croatian Representatives. - Four votes in. I'm asking the club of the Serb people. - Four votes in. From the Bosniak people's ranks. - Against four votes. I find that this decision has not been given the necessary majority. That is, it has not received support from all three constituent peoples in BiH. Thank you very much. We've exhausted everything for today's session. I'm closing this part of the session. Have a good trip and thank you all for coming. The session was suspended at 2:15 p.m. 14 I would like to welcome all present MPs, MPs, delegates, and guests from the international community who are following the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Peoples, also to the media, as well as representatives of the Council of Ministers, present here. In the beginning, I should say that the session is attended by 12 delegates, four from the Bošnjak order, the fifth still is not an opted-out at this club. From the order of the Hrvat attend 3 delegates, Mr. Živković Ivo justified his lack of disease, the fifth delegate has not yet been appointed. All five delegates, or MPs, are present from the Srbin order. For today's session, the College of the Assembly suggests we work in two parts. The first part concerns the completion of the 12th session of the National Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the second part is the opening of the 13th session, with the appropriate agenda and the addition of the presidency to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We did this because we wanted to make the first transfer of the chairmans in the House of Nations in time, and secondly, that all those questions, laws and decisions taken at the House of Representatives should be treated as soon as possible and at this home, so that these decisions could go into further procedure and further application. We have two points left for the 12th session, which is the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, and this is the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, whose legislators are Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, then the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, proposed by MP Vito Rakić. Also, we received information that the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers will be re-treated at the House of Representatives, delivered by the BiH presidency. In a conversation with the members of the House of Representatives, I was assured that in the next two or three days, they would try to comply with these three versions of the law and that it is possible to reach a single, acceptable proposal on the BiH Council of Ministers Act in the next week, and the College of this House proposes that we remove this item from the agenda until there is a need to agree on the House of Representatives and on our College, in order to make a widely accepted version of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which we could consider already at the next meeting of this House. I'm making this proposal for a plea. Can we vote? Who agrees with this view and conclusion? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted such a conclusion. Also, a similar version is the proposal for a law on BiH's public documents, where there is a need for some consensus, and which the House of Representatives has not yet accepted in the 15 final version. We therefore propose, like the College, that we also remove this law from the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that it be discussed after the necessary reconciliation, the arrangements, so that we can accept it at the next meeting of this House. Can we accept this conclusion? Who's in? Thank you very much. I realize that we unanimously adopted this conclusion and thus close the 12th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
