ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5234	I ask the honourable MPs to stay in the hall to finally determine the exact number of present. Gentlemen, I am opening the 20th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I propose that we listen first to the Bosnian Herzegovina anthem. At today's session, in addition to the MPs, it was called: the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH. Also, I would like to inform you, esteemed MPs, that at the session, we have called on Mr Tihomir Gligorić, whom the BiH Presidency appointed as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers for the meeting on 26 April 2000. I especially welcome him. At the session, according to the constitutional order, the already invited representatives of public information funds, which I also welcome today. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the service has established that there are 30 MPs present at the session so far, which makes, of course, not only the quorum but also shows that, however, it is better done. The absence of the session was announced by representatives: Ivo Mijačević, you already know about his illness, Bogić Bogičević, Ljubomir Zovko and Zlatko Lagumdžija. Also, I need to inform you that the OSCE has informed you that instead of Mr Nedžad Branković, the parliamentary mandate has been assigned to Mr Rijad Raščić. Mr. Safet Oručević, meanwhile, resigned as a representative. So let's note this, and now by opening this session, let's go to the agenda proposals. You received the materials and suggestions of the agenda in writing. I am obliged here to point out that the problem in point 3 that I want to highlight here is a little bit, the agenda proposal is so adjusted and proposed as a correction, the promoters of this point 3 are Mirko Banjac and Pero Skopljak. We'll hear the reasons when that point's on the agenda. 2 I'm opening a debate on the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5235	Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, allow me to request that, on behalf of the SDP Club, an initiative to bring some provisions of the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as part of today's session. That initiative was addressed in October last year. For various reasons, it has been constantly delayed, I suggest that it be classified as the last item of the agenda before, the last item of the agenda in today's session, and that, meanwhile, since many MPs have forgotten, the material is shared. This item of the agenda, I propose at the same time, and I would like to point out that the signatories and initiatives of the groups of MPs, not only from the SDP, but from a number of political parties, and that this initiative is particularly relevant at the moment when there is a general commitment of political parties in BiH to bring the legislation within BiH into line with international conventions, particularly the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the context of preparations for entry into the VE. I ask that individual MPs, since we consider this a crown, political moment, and that this item of the agenda be made known to people in a way that wants to discuss whether the Bosnian-Herzegovic constitutional system is in line with what we have in Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5236	I have a direct answer here, so if Mr. Representative is pleased to make a deal right away. According to the report I have from the secretariat, everything that has passed through the regular procedure has been put here on the agenda, i.e., the conditions for entry into the WE, as an inquiry which we have sent to the BiH Presidency, unfortunately, we have not yet received any response, because such initiatives have come from both you and many colleagues here in the House of Representatives. So we don't have any material here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5237	Chairman, the material for this item of the agenda has been delivered to all MPs and there is no problem that during this session, during today, possibly before and before this session continues, we are going to be forwarded to all MPs and MPs, so that we are talking about the initiative to discuss this issue and see what our obligations are on this very important plan, so I do not think that it is enough to give up this request, as much as I say, but on waiting for more than half a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5238	Okay, if the procedure is...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5239	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to gently correct the chairman of Skopljak. In fact, more than eight months ago, a group of four 3 MPs launched an initiative to find a point on the agenda of this home, or even call a special session, on the subject of BiH's economic and social policy in 2000. We waited a long time for the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare material for us, and finally, more than a month ago, the material was prepared, although it may be one of the most urgent issues in this country, never put that point on the agenda of this House. This is one example of disrespect, I would say, not a row in proposing certain things, nor an answer to the current problem in BiH where economic and social problems are often much ahead of what we have on the agenda. The other thing I'm saying is that I'm one of the signatories of the initiative that Mr. Tokić was talking about, and it seems to me that the least we could do today is put this on the agenda as the last point, so we can discuss this problem. Third, probably, I saw Mr Spahić, he answered, he'll probably explain it. There is a bill, i.e. a proposal for a legal act, which Mr Silajdžić has already referred to a long time ago, and which, since they are on the move, will probably come to the agenda, which deals with the same problem. Especially around the agenda. Mr. Chairman, we have just heard from you that behind the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives is not a College, but two members of the College. Since the House of Representatives has authorised the College to establish the Rules of Procedure's proposal, I am asking the question of the House of Representatives. Will they accept that the legislators of the Rules of Procedure are part of the College or a harmonised position of the College? This is a very important question. I'm not saying that one option or another, but it seems to me that the College had to find a way out of the situation, and if he couldn't find out exactly, if that's the situation, then let the Proposed Rules of Procedure go by two members of the College. The second thing I'm saying is that I suggest that point 4, the analysis of the work of the Media Commission, as addressed here, be included after the draft law of the legislator Dr. Haris Silajdžić and because the procedure should be respected, so that legislative proposals always have an advantage in relation to reports, analyses, etc., and, in the extreme version, order when the proposals of the law are dr. Haris Silajdžić headed for parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5240	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, international representatives, press representatives, radio and television from BiH. I'd like to set up, with regard to the agenda, when the College consults, to see what two of them are, you want to take a break to make a five-minute deal? Did you make a deal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5241	If we're looking for a break. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5242	Not if you're making a deal, since you're leading, yet you're not listening to yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5243	I'll try to listen to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5244	Thank you very much and thank you very much. What matters now is that we ask ourselves two questions. First, when we propose the agenda, if we have the materials delivered for that agenda, that's one rulebook. I didn't see it, maybe I missed it, that I got, about the assessment of the law, about these points 1 and 2, today we're going to get these records and points 3 and 4, we didn't get full material in line with the demands of the BiH Parliamentary House. So I don't know how it's gonna be on the agenda. Firstly, in order to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives, no proposal has been submitted, at least I did not get it, there may be some in the papers with a reasoned programme of work concerning the confirmation of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers to be determined under this constitutional obligation of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. If you remember, I asked a few sessions ago to submit a programme of work and a reasoned structure of the BiH Council of Ministers in accordance with the law and according to their professional abilities to do their jobs in these places. On the occasion of point 2, when we arrive to read the materials, it will likely come to the agenda. On the occasion of point 3, I fully agree with my colleague Kadić, we cannot get a proposal for the agenda in which the College stands, and then get an explanation that the College is not standing next to the proposal, but two members of the College. It is incorrect to include this in the agenda, until we clarify what you are different about and on what grounds this remains on the agenda, that you did not warn us that this should be removed from the agenda and that after so many months of discussion on the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' House of Representatives, the College has no ability to agree on a common position. On the occasion of point 4. An analysis of the work of an independent media commission with a proposal to examine the constitutional basis of its existence continues to operate, I did not get the material, perhaps it was a technical error. If there is such material, I would also ask that it be divided during the session, so that we can talk on the basis of some document. I didn't get it, I'm sorry. Please, then, to allow me, as an MP, to get that document now, I probably wasn't at that session. Now with regard to the proposal for new items of the agenda, I would like to inform you that in this same space, in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with the presence of representatives of both homes and colleges and representatives of 5 political parties, representatives of the Council of Europe and the political rapporteur and gentlemen who came from the SE, several weeks ago, very clearly and transparently said that at the first next session, please allow that I did not exactly interpret Mr Skopljak here, on the agenda, and that the College will do everything, one and the other at home, that we have a programme of work for 2000, of course, since this is the 5th month, probably for these 6-7 months, as long as there are elections and by the end of the year, of course, with the trust of the next composition of the mandate. However, we've been working for 2000, simply, we haven't received any advances, nor in the draft, nor have we received any information on the work programme. The fifth month begins and is practically halfway away, we have no information about it, and responsibility has taken over from the College, to deliver, together with parliamentary clubs and independent MPs, a draft work programme for 2000. It's a big surprise to me that we're not on the agenda today. Mr Kadić explained the repeated request on behalf of, practically, almost half of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the requirement to finally discuss the economic and social problems of BiH and the initiatives given here by Mr Silajdžić, the initiative of Mr Tokić and the SDP MPs' Club, as well as the announced my request by Mr Kadić on the amendments to the entity Constitution, in line with the Constitution of BiH and the harmonisation of the laws and constitutional solutions relating to European standards, I would like to remind you that until today we have not received an answer to the few months ago, a whole proposal of initiative, Mr Kadić and I, regarding constitutional changes and the legal solutions relating to the functioning of BiH. I'll conclude next, it's exactly 12 hours now, and that's how it happened. I warned multiple times at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, yes, since '98. Since 21 June, nearly two years ago, the European Commission adopted a declaration of special relations with BiH. After that, several months later, the BiH Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, translated the White Paper, which talks about the relations of Europe and BiH, and I want to ask a question. How is it possible for us, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, to be promoted on one side by the White Paper, which has been in BiH for 2 years, which is practically anonymous for the BiH Parliament and so I propose that we concentrate on legislative proposals, which are also waiting for more than half a year and I think we could do something good today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5245	Thank you very much. I hope we respect the time limits, which the Rules of Procedure tells us to do. Here you go. Is there any more debate on the agenda? Dear Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I suggest that item 9 be removed from the agenda. Draft BiH criminal law, because the point is not in accordance with Article 3. The BiH Constitution and I propose that a new draft law be drawn up, prepared by the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Law implementing international and inter-entity criminal law, which is in accordance with Article 3, point (g) of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5247	She's speaking from the scene and you can't hear her 6
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5248	Read the Constitution, fellow MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5249	Is there anyone else to discuss the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5250	I would like to say at the very beginning that, indeed, I would not be able to vote for any part of the agenda for which there is no material. I would ask you to respect this observation and suggestion and don't put us in an awkward situation that we have to get out of the O.R., if they're on a proposal, to vote in one way or another for something that's not prepared material. We can only ask the Kolegijum that the things that have been launched, if they have stopped somewhere, to be updated and placed on the agenda of one of the next sessions, or at the first meeting of the BiH Representative Council. In this context, this concerns this proposal and the initiative on economic and social policy or BiH's problem. I particularly stress this, because I would like to stress that this House cannot discuss economic and social policy without having received a report from the BiH Council of Ministers before, and this report must be based on entity economic and social policies. It is, first of all, in the jurisdiction of the entity, and we certainly have the right to act as a corrective factor in what this policy is, how much it is implemented and what it is in relations between these two policies that it is necessary to do this home to make these policies more successful or, in the end, if they need to be completely changed to change. There were suggestions here to remove the first point from the agenda, and the explanation I was at the first moment, indeed, and I accepted that without the material could not be debated, but, behold, today, while the debater was saying it, probably the service was afraid, so she immediately divided that report or the exposé, however you will. So we have complete discussion material on this agenda point. It is possible, here's my suggestion, to consider, although I stand firm behind the fact that after the adoption of the agenda one 20-minute break is made, that all MPs read this material, so that they can then take their views on the matter. I'd like to say the same thing about whether the fourth point can go before some law. This is an analysis, even a debate and an analysis of a condition can come well after, if some legal act comes about, that is no reason to take that point off the agenda, and the material was obtained at the last session and can, who doesn't, be delivered today. I would suggest that item 6 of the agenda, which is the draft law on the Court of Justice of BiH, be removed from the agenda, because it is not in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH, but under the Dayton Agreement, or the Constitution of BiH, it is fully in the jurisdiction of the entities, and the Constitutional Court of BiH has the office of the Supreme and Constitutional Court, these would be my suggestions for the agenda. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5251	Ladies and gentlemen, at the 18th session of this House, we had a vote on the entity's draft election law, the SDP representative's proposal. At that time, the chairman found that BiH's draft election law did not win the entity's majority and that he was going to agree, it was the 18th session. At the 19th session, we didn't have a statement under this draft electoral law, because it seems to me that we didn't even have a report on the harmonisation by a practical college at the time, so I would ask, if the collatement of the College was not carried out, that the alignment be carried out and that the voting procedure was completed, related to this draft electoral law. If he can't do this session, we from the SDP will accept that it's going to be at the next session, just to finish the procedure. I must tell you that it would be very good and very convenient to today, when we are practically discussing the mandate for the BiH Council of Ministers, to try, as they say, to make the most of the effort to reach the electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5252	Thank you very much. We have Mr Silajdžić here, then Mr. Deretić, but we also have a proposal from Mr. Dokić to take a 20-minute break after the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5253	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is about a proposal for points 6 and 9 to be removed from the agenda. Let me remind you, this is a commitment from Madrid, December 1998, and a commitment from our programme that we adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5254	Mr. Banjac, incorrect quote. In my proposal, there is no denying that the area which is point (g) of the Constitution is resolved as an option and falls within the competence of the BiH institutions, I propose that the law be removed under this name and content, and that, in accordance with the Constitution, instead of that law, the law that I have proposed be passed. I don't argue that it should, but simply, it should be brought into line with the Constitution. Thank you very much. Mr. Deretić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5256	Dear fellow MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I would also refer to item 5 of the draft law on the protection of human rights set out in international conventions, which would form an integral part of the BiH Constitution. Namely, the contents of this draft, which I have in front of me, contains precisely those provisions already covered by the BiH Constitution preamble, first of all, point 5, i.e. the preamble, i.e. the position 5 and attitude 8, where it is literally indicated that this preamble and the Constitution of BiH are included in the fullness of all human rights declarations, the International Civil and 8 Political Rights Pact, i.e. economic, social and other rights. However, I am indicative, in fact, of Article 2, as well as of Article 4. which provides for the following. Namely, Article 2 provides that all international conventions that should be, I am merely trying to explain for what reason I propose that this draft be rejected at all as such and that it cannot be entered at all, precisely because it is covered by the preamble of the Constitution of BiH and that the Constitution of the Venice Commission is granted to BiH. So, all that is contained in the proposed conventions, which are listed in Article 2, and it is indicative that it is not listed here, and the UN Charter, which, in fact, should contain all these conventions on human rights, and the UN Charter speaks of the right of people to self-determination, and for this reason I believe there is absolutely no room for the adoption of such a law, with the fact that in Article 4, literally, there is also a way that a certain citizen could exercise, by this law, his right. In fact, any rightful and final decision could be subject to a review of the court, which was also proposed in one of the points and one of the special institutes that should be subsequently taken in BiH, and at least according to these provisions that stand and in the draft, they would be intertwined in full with the provisions and competences of the BiH Constitutional Court. For this reason, I suggest that item 5 be removed from the agenda and that such a draft be rejected, not rejected, but rejected, since there is no basis in the law at all, in any legal act, for its adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5257	The replica has Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5258	As the chairman said, the replica is precisely for Mr Silajdžić. Namely, when I suggested that item 6 should be removed from the agenda, I did not say that we should not honour some of our agreements and, besides, the plan and the work programme, but I had an observation as much as this draft suggested, this goes beyond the authority of the BiH Constitution. So, the accent is that it cannot be accepted to attribute the highest court in BiH, but rather a court that settles disputes between BiH institutions. This draft was designed so that it would be difficult to get him into that form as the Constitution is allowed and therefore the proposal to take it down, and whether it's the present proposalor or someone else that will bring him into line with the Constitution, it's an open question, and when it does, I'll vote for him, anyway. The point is that the current form of the draft is such that it cannot fit into the BiH Constitution and that is why I ask it to be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5259	I'll give myself one explanation. Before the adoption of these laws, which Mr Silajdžić long submitted to this home, I must say, I have the promise of the Constitutional Commission that she will be sitting and giving her opinion on constitutional relations, i.e., on the basis of each of these laws individually. I hope this pleases many of you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5260	There are two things here. A debate on the draft, which seems to have already begun, and a constitutional basis. We forget we agreed to do this in Madrid, it's '98. A year, December. Secondly, that we have this in the program and third that the Venice Commission has already ruled on what their colleagues are talking about. Is that familiar to colleagues? The Venice Commission ruled, since we can't make a deal, this is it. In our program, it exists. We agreed in Madrid, and now we need to start discussing it again. Since counterpart Deretić spoke of constitutional basis and preambles, he mentioned only Article 2, point 2. The BiH Constitution envisions the rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, its protocols will be directly applied in BiH. According to this, this law, which I propose, shouldn't be, but it's a problem they don't apply. As we know, it is the fact that human rights are being violated in BiH at every level and in every segment. These conventions will have priority over every law. This Convention and its Protocols provide for mandatory judicial protection of human rights and freedoms at the level of States, Member States and the Convention, i.e. at BiH level. What's this about? This law discusses a clear constitutional provision that international conventions have priority over domestic law, we have not yet done so. I've passed this law before and he's been rejected. Now, when in the new structure of the BiH Council of Ministers, we have finally a ministry dealing with exiled and displaced persons and human rights, it is perfectly normal to re-convening this issue, this should have been the first law to be discussed by this assembly. I insist on this law, and when it comes to the agenda, I want the MPs to declare this individually. Let me just say one more thing. The refusal of this law is the refusal of the BiH Constitution, as it is a clear provision of the BiH Constitution, Article 2, point 2, which I have just read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5261	Is there anyone else for raps? Allow me now, please, to try to recapture the debate so far. Mr. Dokić, is he answering for a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5262	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5263	You're proposing a break. Okay. I have an obligation to give half an hour's rest and then I'll see you at 1:00, but please, at 1 o'clock at the latest, we'll continue the session here. According to the Secretariat's report, we have a quorum and we can continue to work. [[PAUZA]] I'm opening, possibly, a further debate on the agenda, which we've already brought to an end, but, well, if anyone else has a call, go ahead. Clearly, we can't hear unless we respect each other. We're moving on to the agenda. I hope we've had a pretty round discussion, but here's another question, who wants to come forward on the occasion of the agenda? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5264	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, of course, I expected them to appear here today and I was waiting for members of the BiH presidency to appear, because today we have the first item of the agenda to be extremely important. As far as you and I are aware, and we have been informed by the means of information that they unanimously proposed, in fact, appointed Master Tihomir Gligorić as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Today, dear Lord, there is no here. I think this relationship with the BiH presidency is absolutely unacceptable. A team before Mr. Chairman, and of course, on behalf of the chairman, has sent only one piece of paper that looks like this. Does this home deserve this kind of relationship? I want to ask questions here today to the distinguished gentlemen, I have a lot of questions, I have questions about candidates, I also have questions about this kind of relationship, about paper and notice. I apologize to Mr. Gligorić. You've just come in and you haven't had a chance to hear what I'm saying, but, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think this house should already once, if no one else will, afford us dignity, then we ourselves must afford this dignity. So I suggest that the point be removed from the agenda, because I do not want to debate in deafness, that is my suggestion, and I expected and intervened over a number of people to appear to the gentlemen of the proposings. Since they are not there, I suggest that the point be removed and the PSBiH House of Representatives be declared after the next conclusion. Here's the text of that conclusion. The BiH presidency is called on to take part in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and on its own proposal to confirm the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. It is harmful, and in the interests of BiH, the unacceptable, endorsing relationship between the BiH presidency and this important, very important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5265	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the BiH presidency, I would like to inform you that the BiH Presidency has strictly, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, fulfilled its obligation and appointed a candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers. Of course, it is the next obligation of this high house to consider this candidacy and to decide whether it will be confirmed or not. So, as far as the constitutional obligations of the BiH presidency are concerned, they are quite correctly met, noting that this presidency offered the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers' Law in February and asked for an urgent procedure. The public knows very well what fate this law has experienced and how long this whole situation has lasted. In addition to the appointment decision, a curriculum vitae candidate was delivered, so that the BiH presidency, for its part, did everything it needed and was its constitutional responsibility. Each body should, in accordance with its constitutional position and constitutional responsibility, carry out its part of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5266	Thank you very much. Incorrect quote, Mr. Banjac. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5267	Dear gentlemen, my claim has been confirmed here that, in fact, it is literally endearing to the PSBiH House of Representatives. That's what, here you go, gentlemen, the paper, and you have nothing to think about, you're going to adopt the end of the story. What do you think, sir, calm down, enjoy and listen or shut your ears. It is not acceptable to be sent paper without being able to ask, as an MP, and you can decide for yourself what you want. I want to ask. I want to see if their attitude is really unanimous or not? I want to see what they handled in the proposal. I want to see how they characterize their candidate. I want to hear it. I want BiH to hear it. I want the international public to hear it. I want to see if this is a farce or a truth, and I can hear it when I ask them. I can hear that when I hear the answer. That's what I want. I want an answer, precise and clear. I have a lot of questions for the BiH presidency. Let me see if they really sent us a candidate behind who the three of them are or aren't, I want to see and hear it, I want to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5268	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs - MPs, I have the understanding of the request of the Banjac representative to see the members of the BiH Presidency, but I think we must stick to the business procedure and stick to the obligation this House of Representatives has at the moment, which is to approve or not approve Mr Gligorić's concerted candidacy as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I would not want any rhetoric to put into question the obligations of this House of Representatives and that the House of Representatives is responsible for not accepting that it pleads on this crucial issue of today's current political moment in BiH, which is the invigoration of BiH institutions, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers. In this context, I would ask the chairman that, regardless of the wishes, love, the will to look at certain persons, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this debate be concluded and that, in accordance with the proposals for the completion of the agenda, this high house is declared, because all conditions have been met, including the proposal to remove this item of the agenda, which is legitimate. I do not want to talk at this time about the qualification of such a proposal, but I urge the House of Representatives to carry out its constitutional obligation to declare, or approve or not approve Mr Gligorić's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5269	There's another replica. As soon as you're ready to put it to the vote, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5270	This replica is intended for clarification. I'm absolutely for what MP Tokić says, but here, I know it's urgent, I know I need to be respected and I'm ready within 2 days, 3 days to go back, but I want to see here, I want to see members of the BiH presidency here, I want to ask them. Some kind of delay, I'm absolutely against stalling. This is an important issue for BiH. This is an important issue for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I will tomorrow, if we have to extend the session tomorrow, move it, but let the gentlemen come. I'm not up for 12 delays. I accept what the MP says. At least let the people see they're not telling the truth or telling the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5271	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to round up the agenda debate, by points we'll be able to negotiate later.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5272	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, watching this agenda proposed by the College, I have the following remarks. We are entering a very serious debate here on BiH legislation. By considering this set of laws, I believe that of these seven laws, three laws are not good grounds for a proposal to come up with amendments. Those laws that have the basis for an amendment to build a solid proposal, I will be for them to support. However, the number 5 law, number 6 and number 9, I don't think they have a good basis and that they have to survive a significant reconstruction in order to achieve one legal act. These other laws have the basis to be updated and I'm not for these three laws to go on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5273	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5274	I'm going out again because it looks like we're going back to our discussion and wasting our time. I am talking about commitments from the Madrid Conference and the Madrid Declaration, I am talking about obligations under our programme and I am talking about obligations in accordance with OHR's opinion. The commitments of the Madrid Declaration are implemented on entities and I don't know why they should be ignored at state level. As you know, on the RS entity, a debate has been held on these laws. How can we talk, colleague Rakić, about the D.A.'s office and the D.A.'s office, not the court? Why, then, the D.A.'s office and why the D.A.'s office, and there's no court. If we didn't go into the debate again, I'd ask here, I don't insist on it being today. I know that one day it must be, in a direct relationship, not only with the embezzlement of our mutual relations here in the country, it's in direct connection with investment, foreign capital inflow and the launch of the economy. Without legal certainty, he'll be gone. We can do it today, and in a few days, we can do it in a month, it doesn't matter. As far as I know, here, I've been informed by the OHR gentleman that they're working on this right now. If so, then I'm willing to withdraw these proposals, as far as judicial reform is concerned, and wait for their opinion to do so. Once again I assure you, the more serious inflow of foreign capital into the country, which we all need, will not be until we have these institutions, I've been talking about it for three years. Look at the state of our economy. Without it, fresh capital will be gone. The story of internal reserves is just a story, we don't have them. Everyone needs that foreign capital. Without these institutions, without basic registration, it won't be. 13 As for the draft law, I am talking about point 5, the protection of human rights established by international conventions, which are part of the BiH Constitution, I see this law as important. We can, through this law and through the application of this law, improve the state of BiH on human rights which is what it is, including discrimination in the workplace, including the right to live, the right to return, etc. We can complete our inconclusive system with this law and it opens up opportunities to join Europe, and that is why we all want it, not to me, but to all of you. It is one way to get involved in European flows as quickly as possible, as you can usually say, if we care about it. Of course, international conventions apply directly, and this law should not be all right. There are countries from the former eastern bloc, which were also required to apply, which made the law about it. I know them what countries they are. As a rule, they made the law. Why? To develop that constitutional provision. This is all we're working on. We need her. I'd beg to see it that way. Not to me, not once here to the people or one stranger or coalition or anything but to all of us. Here's to repeat, as far as this set is concerned, when it comes to reforming the justice system, I'd like, if the OHR gentlemen would like to explain, as far as I'm concerned, exactly what they're doing under the PAR program on that. If that's the case, then we'll let them work on it. I have nothing against it, nor did I say that my offered solutions are the best and only such ultimate ones, I didn't say that. But we cannot question the constitutional basis of what we agreed in Madrid, what we agreed on in the work programme here and what OHR gave legal opinion as an arbitration officer. We can talk about matter later. I would ask this to be taken into consideration and I would ask, if possible, that OHR gentlemen report to the OHR and say whether this is correct as I have transferred and if it is to delay the debate until the moment when these proposals or plans are ready to go towards the BiH Council of Ministers and then to parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5275	Gentlemen of the OHR, if they think we should intervene here, intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5276	I tried to be brief in my discussion, but I guess I wasn't clear enough. Consulting legal experts and all that has been brought into entities, based on the Madrid Declaration and the judicial reform and what is in line with the OHR, and this package must be brought into line with all of these elements, in order for the legal package to be consistent overall in BiH. That's why I said, I know how to pass a law on defence, to pass a law on prosecution, and not have a court, that it's absurd. But this law offered by the court, the law offered under criminal law, cannot be included in the legal system in total and must have a major reconstruction. That's why I don't think that this can be the basis on which a law will be built without a major reconstruction, and that's why I'm not in favour of this debate on these three proposals, simply because it has to be a lot of deviation from this to come to the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5277	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, namely, I intended not to speak about the agenda, but, behold, in the light of what can happen further, I would simply like to draw your attention to the following. It is true that 14 Mr. Trnka said that the BiH Presidency, on the formal side, has fulfilled its obligation and what MP Tokić said that from that point of view, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's representative council could decide, but based on this paper that I have received, there are a number of questions that could be referred to the applicant before I even come to ask the candidate for the co-chair. What are the criteria set out in the BiH Presidency, is the application of the election results? If the election results are applied, then this is not the proposal. If this is the creation of some new atmosphere and some new relations in BiH, then the proposal needs to be discussed and can be discussed. I can also ask today the candidate for co-chair, whether he is able to say today the full composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, or, in this way, by giving up the BiH Presidency to be present, not to suit, wants to create additional space for international arbitration, related to the BiH Council of Ministers. That is why I would ask you to take this issue seriously, not to hurt any candidate, no MPs, that we do not reduce the importance of the BiH presidency, and I am convinced that if we enter the electoral detachment, which comes from the BiH media, we will enter a much more complex political environment in BiH, but unfortunately, this four month where we say we have or do not have the BiH Council of Ministers. So I ask you, as responsible people, without a lot of emotion, passion, party belongings, pressure and all kinds of things, to put this thing on, to give that objective weight she deserves. Nothing good for BiH today will happen if all the cracks and divisions that exist are seen. For the sake of the future of our people, the economic situation, the importance of the international community, its presence, we must bear in mind and therefore, it is my warning, I would very much like to ask the members of the BiH Presidency, what are the criteria they have come from, and I am telling you, if the BiH Presidency truly cares about this agreement, that this will pass. If not, just remember the situation of the Law on the Border Police, the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers, and I warn you that we are going back to such an environment. This is derived from various inscriptions, polemics, etc. In order to protect the dignity and proposed Mr Gligorić and every member of the BiH presidency and us MPs, I ask that we pay more attention to this than the international community. We, unfortunately, have always played cat and mouse games, working behind each other, given the mandate to the international community to edit what it is reluctant to do. So please, nothing will fail for a day – two to pay much more attention to this matter, but what we think we will break over our knees, and our personal position, as an MP, regarding everything, if it enters the agenda, I will make it clear in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5278	Mr. Deretić is giving up the debate. I think we have quite a round-up debate here, so allow me, please, if you agree with that clearly, to make a brief proposal here that will be here on the agenda. 1. There will be a draft agenda adopted by the College, and this agenda proposal is exactly what it is, with one single note that the proposer under point 3 is not the College of the House of Representatives, but Mirko Banjac and Pero Skopljak, which is, as I hear, in accordance with the legal provisions, because the College, as such, allegedly, cannot be the promoter, and then we will go point by point, all the suggestions that you have proposed here, and I will briefly quote them here. 15 1. Proposal for Mirko Banjac to remove item 9 of the agenda 2. We have Mr. Branko Dokić to remove item 6 from the agenda. Draft on the BiH Court of Justice 3. Miodrag Deretić to delete point 5. 4. A group of MPs, I put it that way here, who asked for a debate on economic and social policy in BiH 5. Mr. Sejfudin Tokić's proposal, to update the initiative that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, initiates the procedure to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms We now have the subsequent proposals submitted by Mr. Špirić and Mr. Banjac, I have put them under one point, take off item 1 of the agenda, with the conclusion that Banjc's proposal, which is also supported by Špirić, with the conclusion that Mr. Banjac wrote here and read it to you publicly. You also have a proposal that the three laws proposed here in the agenda are removed from the agenda and, finally, we have one piece of information here, which I can think of here, and I need to publicly show, that OHR gentlemen are doing their best to make sure that the laws from 6 to 11 proposed here, in accordance with the provisions and in accordance with the Venice Commission, are delivered here, with the consent of the people who have put the proposals here, so that you know this when voting the agenda. I thought this was correct to show you all the time, and now I suggest we go to the agenda vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5279	I propose points 6 to 11 to wait for an opinion, i.e. professional proposals or even OHR drafts, and to take them off the agenda today, from 6 to 11. For point 5, I insist we discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5280	As far as economic and social policy is concerned, since this is Mr Kadić's proposal and mine, we are withdrawing it and asking it to be at one of the first sessions, when we have the opportunity to hear the Council of Ministers of BiH, only that this obligation, since it is a shared House of Parliament, is finally being realized and withdrawn, too, from this agenda today, you have not read it, the Initiative for the mandated addition of the Constitution of BiH, is what you have now shared and we propose at one of the next sessions in the framework of the work programme to consider it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5281	Thank you very much. Here is the College's agreement, as regards Mr Silajdžić's proposal, but here is Mr Spahić's support, and we're taking his proposal off the agenda. Practically, we now have, gentlemen, to put points 1 through 5 under the agenda, and then points 12 and 13, who is in favour of the College's proposal, if we understand each other well, if we haven't, please choose to make an explanation. Who's in favour of the agenda college? 16 I said clearly, if you listened, from 1 to 5. - 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th and we have 12th and 13, is that clear? Who's in? Who's against it? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it? From the RS, who's in? Who's against it? The result of the vote, of the 32 present, of all MPs, was 20, and against the 11, was no one abstention. By entities. The Federation of BiH voted in favour of 17 MPs, no one is abstentioned, no one is against it. From RS, 3 voted in favour and 11 voted against. Therefore, this draft agenda has not passed. The proposal is for the College to declare a point-by-point for the agenda, so please point one. 1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers who is for this point to be on the agenda? Who's against this point going to the agenda? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against the Federation of BiH? From RS, who's in? Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? This is how the vote went. Out of 32, 21 voted in favour, 9 of the total number voted against. From the Federation of BiH, 18 were voted in favour. No one's against it. Detained no one. From the RS, the vote was 4 and the vote against was 9. This point didn't go on the agenda. This point number one. She wasn't adopted. We have point 2. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th, 18th and 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Who's in favor of adoption of point 2? Who's against it? No need, this point was unanimously adopted to be the first item of the agenda. We have no reason to vote further because he was adopted. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, proposed by Mirko Banjac and Pero Skopljak. Who's in order for this point to go to the agenda? Who's against it? By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it? From RS, who's in? Who's against it? Please, I'll announce the results of the vote. Any objections to the vote? The results are like this, with 32 MPs present. For, of the total number voted 22 – against vote 4. According to entities, the Federation of BiH voted 11 – against vote 2. RS voted 10 against, and there were no abstentions. Therefore, this item of the agenda has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5282	17 [[You can't hear exposure.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5283	We have the technique, but please the Secretariat, here from now on, to precisely determine the number of votes to and against, if that's why you are, there's no problem. We've got the next point. According to the former agenda, it was four. Analysis of the work of the Independent Commission for Media, a proposal to examine the constitutional basis for its existence and its continued functioning, Proposer Nikola Špirić. Who's in favour of this being a part of the agenda? - Who's against it, I'm asking everything? - 12 is against it. Now I'm asking about the entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? – 5 Who is against the Federation of BiH, I ask? - 11 suzdržan, anyone? There isn't. From RS, who's in? 11 Who is against? 3 Now, finally, let us do the vote. Mr. Kadić, I hope this won't be too high. Of the 32 MPs present, 17 voted in favour – 12 against. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, there were 5. It was against 11. From the RS, it was 11 – against 3. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go past. She didn't get the entity majority. The point is deleted from the agenda. Now we have item 5, in the old agenda. A draft law on the protection of human rights established by international conventions, which form part of the BiH Constitution, proposed by MP Haris Silajdžić. Point five. I'm voting. Who's in? - 17 Who's against it? - From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 13 was for it. Who's against it? - 4 From RS, who's in? Who's against it? Of the total 32 MPs present - 17 were for – 15 it was against. By entities. The Federation of BiH, 13 were in favour, against four. From RS, 3 were for – 11 was against. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go to the vote either. We're going to the 12th agenda. The appointment of members of the working committees. You got that material. I'm asking who's for this agenda item, item 12. We have 27, that's the majority we don't have to vote on. I'm asking if anyone has any objections to the vote. Here you go. Thank you very much. This point has passed in the agenda. We've got the last dot. Answers to MPs' questions and MPs' questions. Who's for this point, I'm asking everything? Thank you very much. And this point has passed. We're not done yet. Since some things have changed here, we now have Mr. Mirko Banjac's conclusion. The BiH presidency is called on to take part in the work of the PSBiH House of Representatives. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5284	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have to intervene, but the chair and the College are obliged to treat the proposals equally, in the way they are proposed. The first proposal to supplement the agenda is the proposal I made. In the meantime, you have given priority to all the other proposals that have arisen and I warn you to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to hold a session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5285	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. I find it justified to note that none, here, should have been this conclusion put in place, but I had to record here some things that are identical, so this is my slip and I propose Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, who reads like this, if I have well understood it. Re-acquaintment of the initiative that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives initiates the process of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Do you agree? Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5286	It can't be a part of the agenda, I'm sorry, please. This is so rude. Come on, formulate the dot. There's a point to formulate, I'm not against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5287	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman misinformed the word “re-accumulation”, given that this point was never on the agenda and it bears the name exactly as you got on the bench. The initiative to launch the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives process of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. You got that material. He's in October, novembo, passed on, and in that context, please treat the formulation. I apologize for being forced to come out again. So it's not about re-accumulating, nor did I formulate it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5288	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. You heard his suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5289	Since this goes into the archives and the stenogram. I think we really need to formulate differently, and this is the launch of an initiative to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, so it should read. I don't think he can start the initiative. It can't just go in as a part of the agenda. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5290	I think this is where the Constitutional Commission should meet. In fact, this is about whether we agree with the Constitution or not. We swore to honor the Constitution. How can we vote now on whether we should agree with the Constitution? The proposal is, in fact, a proposal to bring the entity constitutions into line with the BiH Constitution. The BiH Constitution contains the obligation to comply with... as a moment ago on my proposal for a law that has been rejected. A clear provision of the Dayton Constitution has been rejected. We are now, in fact, voting whether we are for the Constitution or against the Constitution. What it takes is for us to approach this business and we were obliged to do so within three months. I think we should do this, that we don't have to agree on it here, but do it as soon as possible, because we're a few years behind on this plan. Our Constitution implies, as you have seen, not necessarily, but clearly says Article 2, point 2. What he says is done and we can't change the Constitution here. But in fact, we need to make sure that we do it as soon as possible. This earlier law, the bill, which has been rejected, means, in fact, that a clear provision of the Constitution has been rejected, to be clear and loud, without prejudicing anything that is an MP, Mr. Tokić...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5291	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, after this debate, on the need to include this item of the agenda, allow, for the sake of the media and the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public, to precisely define our initiative. On the basis of the General Declaration on Human Rights and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, dedicated to the objectives and principles of the BiH Constitution and respect for human dignity, freedom, equality and equality, determined to ensure full respect for the rights and freedoms provided for in Article 2. The BiH Constitution, an international agreement for all persons in BiH, without discrimination on any basis, we, the undersigned MPs of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, submit an initiative to initiate the process of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Explanation. Article 2 The BiH Constitution has found that BiH and entities will ensure the highest degree of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, that rights and freedoms will be directly applied in BiH in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as in its protocols, and that this will give priority to all other laws. However, the BiH Constitution contains provisions contrary to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, particularly in the provisions of Articles 4.1 and 5. The BiH Constitution, which restricts passive voting law and discriminates against more than one third of BiH's citizens, who cannot be elected to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, respectively, for a member of the BiH presidency. Unless the BiH Constitution is brought into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, we will have laws that, although in line with 20 provisions of the BiH Constitution, will not be in line with the European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In view of that, as provided for in Article 2.2. The BiH Constitution, this convention has priority over all other laws, we will come to a situation that such a law cannot be applied. Another possibility is that the law should apply, directly apply the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but in that case, the law would not be in accordance with the BiH Constitution. This situation can only be overcome by harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is the subject of this initiative. Another reason to approach the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution is the need for the constitutional justice system to be brought into line with international documents relating to the achievement and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as an important assumption for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. In view of the above, we propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopt this proposal and, within the framework of its competence, take further action to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Signatories: Ivo Lozančić, Rasim Kadić, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Bogić Bogičević, Ivo Divković, Suada Muminagić and Sejfudin Tokić. I think I was forced to read this, regardless of what different interpretations and agendas and motivations are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5292	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Mr. Deretić, are you answering?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5293	I'm really sorry that I have to state my position on this agenda point, even though I said it earlier. In fact, here the predecessor read the initiative and only indicated the charred Article 4 under 1st, Article 4. Constitution of BiH point 1 and Article 5. The BiH Constitution, which, in fact, refers to the election of the Council of Peoples, delegates to the Council of Peoples and to the election of members of the joint presidency at the level of BiH. I represent the the thesis that such provisions of the BiH Constitution have not violated any provision, both the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH and the entity constitution, especially the Constitution of BiH, for the simple reason that it has only, in fact, been upgraded, that is, drawn from the Dayton Agreement. We all know how the Dayton Agreement came about, and we also know how the Constitution of BiH was adopted and to explain now what it wants with these initiatives. With these initiatives, he is trying to submit himself under the obligation to violate the equality of people in BiH, in fact, it is here that, for example, a member of the BiH presidency is elected at the level of BiH, although it is from the order of the Serb people, this means that, for example, someone can be proposed as a member of the Serb people's presidency from the Federation of BiH and that the system of majorisation, given the number of population in one and another entity, is indeed chosen against the will of the Serb people in the Serb entity or citizens in the Serb entity, that is the essence. Therefore, when such provisions were incorporated into the Constitution of BiH, then, in any case, whoever was bringing the Constitution of BiH, i.e. building a draft and a proposal of the Constitution, had, in any case, in the light of the circumstances that occurred just 21 before the adoption of this Constitution. Therefore, I believe that the initiative that has been launched has absolutely no basis, and in particular the tendency for these two members, mentioned, to be deeply in line with international provisions that put individual citizens in an unequal position.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5294	I don't think intervention is too high here, although I don't like them. Spahić, Tokić, Dokić, Filipović reported. I ask you to stick here, to discuss only the formulation of the conclusion Mr. Tokić made. Let's get that out of the way. If the agenda item is adopted, then make sure you make whatever you want. I think this would be correct. I'm begging you, if it's not on this subject and strictly ad hoc, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been convinced so far that, under the Dayton Peace Agreement, BiH is a state composed of two multiethnic entities. I didn't know there was any Serb entity, so I'd like an explanation from MP Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5296	Thank you very much. I ask you not to enter ideological disciplines.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5297	I will indeed, with great pleasure, answer this question to my dear colleague. You obviously don't know Article 1. The RS constitution, where it decidently states that the RS, the national state, the state of the Serbian people and other citizens, who have all equal treatment, are the same rights. That's below 1. On the other hand, you're talking about the term multiethnicity. That time to this day, or one of the first sessions here, I haven't heard at all. Nowhere in the Dayton Agreement is multiethnic, there is no multiethnic in the BiH Constitution. What does multiethnic mean? We have the fact that in RS, RS is not an entity consisting solely of citizens of Serbian nationality, but there are citizens who are non-Serb nationalities, who, according to the Constitution, have absolutely the same rights and obligations as any other citizen. So this term of multiethnicity, which is very much manipulated and exploited, in a very incorrect way, I think it's absolutely too misexploited to date. In this context, I believe that this discussion, which concerns the two mentioned members of the Constitution of BiH, which is alluded here, that is to say, not from today, but from the first session, has a very different background, the background of which I have just presented here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5298	Please, according to what I have here, I have Mrs Spahić, Dokić, and then Tokić. Okay. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5299	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am, indeed, rejecting a whole series of formulations from both the legal and any point of view Mr Deretić made here, wishing not to have my motivation interpreted, but precisely as stated in this document. I am against Mr. Deretić, I should probably listen to this one more time and more times, but I am not sure that it would help because of respect for other MPs, I do not want to read this document again, but I would point you to what we wanted to say, and the motives that we wanted to say, and that they had absolutely nothing to do with what Mr. Deretić was saying, with a wish and a request that this point of the agenda, given that it was clear, put on the statement in the way I asked on behalf of the SDP Members' Club, which is that each vote whether it was to include this item on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5300	Mr. Tokić, I'm only going to point out here what you said, like, those who listen to you, can be really helpless, but also a helpless person who reads can be helpless.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5301	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that today we had one role which is delicate, of course, in relation to the adoption of the agenda, when it comes to the procedure and regarding the law proposed by Ambassador Haris Silajdžić and the initiative proposed by several MPs on time, it has been almost six months. I, thinking that we will concentrate, however, on a fundamental debate on the laws, so I have accepted that this debate withdraws the proposal on our initiative for the amendment of the Constitution of the two entities in relation to the Constitution of BiH, which is correct, concluded by this debate, it is a single resistance that is systematic, against our entry into the Council of Europe and that, when it comes to minority rights, civil rights and civil rights, it stands here one provision that we have adopted here by the BiH Presidency, by the BiH Parliament itself and the delegation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is said, that one year after the entry into the Council of Europe or at least a year, the most, will have to comply with the full legislative regulations on various grounds, among other things, and with the European Convention on Human Rights, it stands precisely when it becomes a full member. Now I'd like to set up a problem. If we refused the law, to discuss the law, which is our work programme, so we practically postponed the debate on something that was our work programme, it was adopted in the work programme. If we start to discuss today, really, whether it can be accepted or not on the agenda of an initiative which is the basis of this country's parliament and the foundation, the question is, of course, how can I understand your easy transition through our two proposals, Mr Kadić and my proposal, which we also referred to last year and concerning this matter, thinking that we will go in a correct order. The proposals made by Mr Silajdžić for a long time, for almost two years, have been proposed by a group of MPs and a proposal that we have made in perhaps a week of difference, which concerns several different legal and these recommendations and obligations and constitutional etc. I'm asking the next question now. If we cannot put ourselves in 23 tasks and a commitment to consider a law concerning civil rights in BiH, if today we refuse to discuss the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers or the mandate, we, practically, said in mid-May that we do not want to discuss the Council of Europe in June. Do we, in fact, want to block the complete initiatives for BiH's structure indefinitely and its entry into the Council of Europe. I beg you, I cannot understand that today it was possible to remove the law proposed by Mr Silajdžić. Also, I can't understand that today someone can vote against a group of MPs' initiative, but now I, as an MP, am being appointed. I couldn't afford it, I couldn't forgive myself if I didn't hear the same individual statement from everyone, so it's in the Rules of Procedure, we could, at any moment, ask for a statement, individually, compared to what we offered as an initiative six months ago. It is not possible to come, therefore, to say first about the proposal of a group of MPs. Second, let's put it bluntly. This is really about changes in BiH, in the entity's constitutions it should be said openly. It is about changes to the BiH Constitution, if it will be a normal state and society. We asked for it. We didn't hide anything behind some different adjustments, consistent implementation of the Dayton Agreement, etc. We said, it was about changes that must be on the BiH Parliament's agenda, whether someone wanted to hear it or not, that it was working late. That is why I ask that we accept Mr. Tokić's proposal, when we missed the opportunity with Mr. Silajdžić to now declare ourselves individually, I can, if they agree, whether we go to these initiatives or not, and ask, for the initiative of Mr. Kadić and mine, too, the statement individually, because this really goes into one obstruction without end and end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5302	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5303	Mr. Chairman, I don't think it's a business order that during the vote on agenda points, let any debate and discussion be opened, which is happening right now. Therefore, I would like to intervene to vote on the proposed agenda, as Mr. Tokić put it here, here, I will briefly repeat, it may not be 100 per hundred, but that is it. The agenda is proposed to launch an initiative to bring BiH's Constitution into line. When I'm here, I'm going to say right now why I'm going to vote against that initiative. Because the draft human rights laws and this initiative are mentioned here in advance, it puts individual human rights above the collective rights of the people, especially in the BiH state. That's why I'm voting against the launch of this initiative. Because neither of them absolutely mention the UN Charter, even in the proposed bill, simply close their eyes before there are collective rights of the people. Thank you. I'm asking to vote on the agenda, whether or not it will enter the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5304	I'm asking you to stick to it, we voted. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5305	Mr Spahić, I have listened very carefully, I hope you will listen to me, too. I was going to discuss it, but first I'm going to have a replica of you, and then I'm going to discuss it later. Let us, indeed, once stop politicizing and manipulate the reception conditions into a permanent membership of the Council of Europe. Gentlemen, if you're honest about this, then you'll work first, then we'll work first, I apologize for meeting those conditions that the Council of Europe has defined to this home, and these, as you know, were, half a year ago, three laws from which we two adopted, and one, and we don't have the most important law, in the draft. What the Council of Europe asks of us, the Council of Europe, is an electoral law, gentlemen, and the rest of us have met some of the demands that are sought directly are addressed to Banja Luka and Sarajevo, i.e. to BiH entities. That's what's real. Are we ready, here today to agree, this is now part of my discussion, to assign the Kolegijum to the next session, on the basis of everything we have discussed so far, and it concerns the electoral law, to come up with one variant of the permanent electoral law for BiH, and to put an end to those conditions that the Council of Europe requires, that BiH come to the agenda for the reception, and those other things that follow, if we want European integration, to discuss afterwards. Let's take that first step. My proposal is in line with these proposals, and I have the right to propose something, to task the BiH Presidency to prepare a new draft electoral, permanent electoral law, in agreement with OHR and the OSCE, which launched this initiative, of course, and to go before the assembly in the next 15-20 days. That is what the Council of Europe refers to. The point I answered was this initiative. Nowhere does it say that this is a condition for admission to the Council of Europe and I ask you to say it like this first. There are two reasons why I will not vote for this initiative, one is formal, and the other is essential. The formal nature is that we still do not have a defined procedure, as the initiative to change the Constitution is being launched. This is a change of constitution. We're on the verge of that procedure being defined. It will try, or it has already tried, through this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative Council, when we adopt it, then we will have a clearly defined procedure and we will be able to launch initiatives to change the Constitution. That's a formal reason why I won't vote for this initiative. The second reason is essential nature. Indeed, what is cited here as a reason for the change of the Constitution is, above all, a change in the Constitution, but there is no argument that it is directed against the Convention on Human Rights, etc. Namely, this is about a persistent effort by the SDP MPs' club to change the constitution, which they tried to install through their draft electoral law. I think that here we are behind this pay phone, which is the very session of the Representative Council, which in preparation for the Representative Council, when we discussed the Draft of the Permanent Election Law, by the international community, or rather the representatives of the OHR and the OSCE, heard on several occasions that the draft of a permanent electoral law is not against human conventions and rights, that it is based on the Constitution of BiH, and fellow Members forget that our Constitution also calls on the UN Charter, which has safeguard elements of collectiveity, not only individuality. All of this, considering what is required as a basis for the change of the Constitution, does not really stand, and that argument, here, so to speak, is not mine as an electric engineer, but from the highest representatives of the international community here who are quite present and who have decidently declared themselves. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5306	Please, from the exact formulation of one item on the agenda, here, we've done the whole philosophy. If that's what you want, I don't mind. But I will read, please, as I led: Mr Rakić, Jovanović, Tokić, Mr Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5307	A lot of what I was going to say, said Mr. Dokić, but I still have to say two, three things. First, the title, the initiative that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives initiates the procedure for harmonising the Constitution with the European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, I do not think it is correct and must be found and therefore I have reported it, as Mr Tokić explained everything from the human rights and freedoms point of view in his presentation. We've had a lot of discussions in OHR under election law. What were the issues? So these two points and another third, and now the amendment of the Constitution under the human rights firm is required, and OHR has made it clear that the electoral law he has offered offers all European standards in the field of human rights. We are constantly escaping that BiH is a complex state, two entities and three peoples and that relations must be overall balanced. Anyone who thinks he can create BiH in another way must create it on his own. BiH and the overall BiH definitions must be created on that basis. So the full equality of two entities and three constituent peoples and other citizens, and we are clearly told in the OHR, cannot be built outside the Constitution. So this isn't human rights harmonisation, it's a pure amendment to the Constitution. Therefore, it cannot be called this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5308	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would not take much time, although much time has been spent, my colleague Dokić took half the discussion and I support the first part of it and thank him for it. This second part, I thank the experts who did their best and did this Constitution and he was born in '95. A year. I'm thrilled with the preamble, I wouldn't read, it would take a lot of time. It bothers me that in these five years, when he should have lived long enough to walk and there's a constitution here, we're now heartily seeking to bring him down. I'm truly against it because the basic things that were supposed to be very much alive still don't exist, and we're about to bring down what's written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5309	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that this item of the agenda has already been put on the agenda and the debate on it is well done and done. The attitudes are very clear. What I wanted to say clearly on behalf of the SDP Club is that our initiative is formulated in the way it is formulated, rejecting all the motives that 26 people have in their head, and there is no paper here, motivated by a strong desire for full equality between Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat and all its citizens in the whole territory, and a group of MPs who have imagined themselves to represent national collectiveities, which is not the goal in the House of Representatives, I warn that Srbin do not live in BiH alone in the RS or Hrvat and Bošnjak in the Federation, but people of citizens, Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak live in all BiH. On behalf of these Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, we have, among other things, launched this initiative, led by the provisions of international conventions, including those which say there is no here, which is a general declaration of human rights. With a request that I no longer identify the positions, because they became clear the moment the BiH presidency made it clear that the prime minister, a group of MPs, on behalf of the country's progress and prosperity, had banned the House of Representatives from saying so. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, I would like to ask that we make a statement on this initiative in the way it writes, individually, as I, as the first debater in the agenda, suggested, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5310	The replica has Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5311	I don't have one, Mr. Skopljak, but an incorrect quote. The fact that Mr. Tokić wants to shut both his ears and his eyes, that's his problem, in the end, he's right about that, because it's his. But what he doesn't have a right to, he doesn't have the right to make up a story he's heard. It is quite decadent and clear here that we want to ask the members of the BiH presidency about the candidacy and appointment of Mr Gligorić and that we want to hear the argument. Because he doesn't want to hear the arguments, he clearly says what he wants. He wants to vote the way he wants to, regardless of the arguments and that's his problem, let him do it, just let him know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5312	Thank you very much. I hope that's how we round this discussion, what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A short time ago, the first member of the RS entity constitution was quoted here and as far as we know, it is said, it is the state of the Serbian people and others. If I'm correct, right? Am I right? There, the BiH Constitution was violated immediately, only one state, according to the BiH Constitution, and that is the BiH state. As far as equality is concerned, can I understand that we all agree here that we are all constitutional in all parts of BiH, does that statement mean that? If it means anything, I say hello. So, the consistency of all peoples, every man, throughout BiH, if that implies that statement just before by one fellow MP about equality, I, of course, accept it. If not, it means we're not even. We don't have the same legal position. We're not constitutional. It's obviously very important things. We live in an unconstitutional state. Last month, the BiH Constitutional Court brought down 12 provisions of the entity's constitution, 12. Here it is now published in the list, 12. Who's responsible for living an unconstitutional state, that's question number one? Who's responsible for the fact that we now live in an apparently unconstitutional state, because it's highly controversial this first member of this entity's constitution that I just cited. Secondly, who is responsible for the fact that, despite such an unconstitutional state, what has been proved by the BiH Constitutional Court, just recently said here that the entity is a state, which is the collapse of the Dayton Constitution, who is responsible for insisting on holding elections in a situation where these people whom the colleague had just spoken of are equal, but in some other countries, 700,000 of them. Who's responsible for this situation? In this case, the international community is responsible for insisting on elections, which apparently lead to cementing precisely this unconstitutional state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5314	Mr. Deretić has yet to answer, and that concludes the debate, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5315	I, Mr. Chairman, would only say in two sentences what is most important, which I felt was no need to say here, and that is, since the previous speaker here mentioned and gave himself the right to comment on what is constitutional and what is not, regardless of what is the Constitutional Court of BiH, which is working, that is, the issue of the constitutionality of certain members of the entity constitutions has been raised. True, the predecessor noted here that 12 members of the constitution of one and another entity were challenged, however, Mr. Predicator did not say that the members of the BiH Constitutional Court of the RS did not participate in this moment and work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5316	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5317	First of all, before Rađević suggested that we move on to the vote because I said so, and now I'm sorry we didn't vote first. Once again, I propose a vote. The second thing I want to draw attention to is about what I have turned to you, I have warned you, if this does not go the right way, and as an MP and as an initiator of our seven demands and initiatives waiting for six months here, besides all the rules of conduct in parliament, I want to draw your attention to the fact, not only has it happened here that directly in the statements are being broken, in this house, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the commitments we have made in the protection of the BiH state, but now quite precisely wants to establish a picture of how we do not rely on the UN Charter. I underline once again, not only that we have said ten times so far that in the preamble of the UN Charter, we have warned that BiH, and we have asked for this several times for a statement, quite clearly, whether there have been some statements, were political views and in this regard lost sight of the basic matter, not only to be violated in the Federation of BiH and the RS 28 fundamental basis of BiH, thanks to constitutional solutions in which it is said, on the one hand, this is, that I am not repeating everything, quote, that this is "the state of Serbian and other peoples and citizens of equal rights in all rights in the RS" and that in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, it is said to be the entity of Bošnjak, Hrvat and others, too, equal. I'm undermining that this is a fundamental request addressed in '96. In the year following the adoption of the Dayton Peace Agreement, everything was publicly documented to the Venice Commission, then US Foreign Minister Voren Kristofer and the Peace Implementation Group in BiH. Based on all these demands from many political parties, a decision has been made to stop entities simply, as in any normal state, have to comply with the BiH Constitution. This is the fifth year that we simply have the RS as one home, a large home without the home of the people in which we talk about equality, while in the Federation of BiH we have the House of People, next to the House of Representatives, in which only two peoples are dominated, others vote from opportunity to opportunity, and therefore, please, it is unacceptable to continue in BiH to postpone one truth, undermining nothing is illegal, and nothing is unjust, seeking changes where necessary, it is the function of MPs. I'm looking for an individual statement on this agenda point, and if that doesn't work, I'm going to open a debate on our initiatives individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5318	Thank you very much. It's like someone's afraid of a single statement. I'm interrupting the debate, and I think it's really been incorrect so far and I'm putting it on an individual statement. I've concluded the discussion, no more debates. Here you go, individual vote. We've closed the debate. They've all been replicas so far, here's two hours. Let's be patient, please. We have a question, to be clear, I daren't define it again, you heard Mr. Tokić read here. Who's for that to be the agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5319	From the Federation of BiH: Alagić Branko – for Bičakčić Milenko – there is no Branković Nedžad – absent Čaršimamović Tarik – absent Kulović Hamdija – absent Rakić Vito – for Genjac Halid – for Bećirbašić Adnan – for Kadić Rasim – for Neimarlija Hilmo – for Oručević Safet – absent Pamuk Mustafa – for Karić Munira – for Spahić Ibrahim – for Lagumdžija Zlatko Mijačević Ivo – absent Muminagić Suada – for Divković Ivo – absent 29 Špirić Nikola – for Đedović Ibrahim – for Havel Ana – against Zovko Ljubomir – absent Paš-Pašalić-Lhotak Ivica – against Skopljak Pero – against Malkić Mirko – against Lozančić – against Deretić – against Jažić – against Zavić against Banjac Srabić against Rađević – Balta Mirkojić against Mirkojić against Branislav Jovanović against Desanka – against Perkanović Mara against Mirić against Miodrag – against Bošnjak
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5320	The results of the vote will now be announced. Here I have the results, a total of the Federation of BiH 13 were representatives for – 5 were against. In RS, 3 were for and 11 was against it. We all have 16 votes in total for and against 16, here, now we're... not past this proposal. Thank you very much. Any objections to the vote? We still have Mr. Mirko Banjac's conclusion. The BiH presidency is called on to take part in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and on its own proposal to confirm the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. It is harmful for BiH's interests, and an unacceptable, endorsing relationship between the BiH presidency members on this very important issue. Who's to say this, I'm asking everything. Who's in? Who's against this conclusion? We vote on entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5321	If it's unanimous, it doesn't have to, sir. Because it's unanimous. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5322	According to our Rules of Procedure, the way we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5323	According to our Rules of Procedure, which is based on the Constitution, the decision or conclusion of the House of Representatives was adopted if the majority of those present voted for it, in this case the majority were and if one third, or one third, of each entity was, and I ask you to vote on the entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5324	Please, there's a Halid right here. Who's in entities? What is the conclusion, I ask, in the Federation of BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5325	Since Mr. Genjac intervened, I have additional intervention, please allow me two sentences. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5326	We've started the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5327	How about that intervention after the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5328	It's about the vote. I beg you, I ask the chairman, do you allow me to speak, if not, I will...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5329	Here, give me a quick word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5330	I beg you, when something is interpreted, it should be interpreted to the end. Since Mr. Genjac didn't fully interpret it, I felt the need to supplement his sentence. So, stuck behind his sentence, the majority of those present vote. Since no one was against it, then it's absurd to vote again on entities because no one was against it. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5331	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I was one of the MPs who voted for this conclusion, because I believe that members of the BiH Presidency with the inadmissible behaviour of relations towards this high house, but I would ask you, and again I intervene, the College must have the same principle and attitude. You've changed your way of voting several times. Here I would like to clearly underline to all my fellow MPs, when the SDP Electoral Law Bill was proposed, it was adopted unanimously. Then the same Mr. Banjac insisted on the second round of voting. Allow me, look at the record, and it was voted in the second round. As far as I'm concerned, I'm just asking you three to take one stand. Do you know that in your term of office, we have adopted decisions and conclusions in this high house in four different ways? Whatever you want, but stick to it from now on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5332	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I, of course, did not want to intervene in business when Mr. MP Tokić asked for an individual vote, although it does not say that he asked for it in the Interim Rules of Procedure, here, I say now when it is over. I don't think it's a big deal, and it doesn't have to be burdened. I don't like what he calls out, but I love what a man notices, because when he notices, he has to have arguments, and when he calls, without arguments, then he knows what's going on. I do not dispute what Mr. Tokić said, nor will I dispute, that there must be one third of every entity involved in the majority, and I have never slowed it down, and I just came out to correct the mistake he made towards me. I don't dispute what Halid said, it has to be one-third, it has to be the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5333	Dear colleagues, we have indeed had one situation of changing the treatment of votes that have been abstentioned, because this constitution is not precise. We had one practice, and then we changed practice, and that was a change in voting. However, some things about the vote are unchangeable until the constitution changes. And the Constitution, Mr. Dokić, says very clearly, we felt that this sentence should be completed, all decisions of this house are made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting. Delegates and members will make the most of their efforts to include at least one third of the delegates' votes from each entity's territory. If that doesn't happen, there's a match, etc. Therefore, there was a hasty response by members of the College that it was not necessary and borne by members of the Colleges responsibility. Indeed, more careful and empty heads should be observed and we should respect the dignity of this home. Therefore, in 11 votes voted in favour, there should be 5 votes from the RS for and 10 votes from the Federation of BiH for the decision to be adopted. Please, let's finally take a closer look at this provision and never go back to this question ever again. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5334	The conclusion is that on the entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5335	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not running away from respecting the Rules of Procedure until the end. This is exactly the situation I predicted when I answered for the discussion. This would have been the case for today's proposed candidate, because members of the BiH presidency have unfairly sent paper here. If the three of them agreed, there's no way, they have a party majority in the Representative Council. Since they are not, I would like to warn the citizens of BiH that there is no such situation, regardless of the economic disaster of BiH, which our representatives are willing to agree on without a prominent arbitration of representatives of the international community, they were alive to see. This proposal would go the way MPs on the Council of Representatives are now declared. Thank you very much, let the Rules of Procedure be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5336	Who doesn't sit, he can go. Mr. Banjac, you are, voting for the Council, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which gives all the rights to the BiH Presidency, which makes the BiH Council of Ministers a service to the BiH presidency and nothing from parliament. In fact, by voting you gave all the rights to the BiH presidency, and now you invite them to sit here. It's a matter of form and content. Content of the matter, the BiH Council of Ministers is the service of the BiH presidency, rotated, pictured by the presidency, and parliament has nothing to do because everything has been agreed before, the rotation. That's why I voted against such a law. I don't understand, if you voted for that law, why are you calling the presidency now? You've finished the whole job for them, they don't need to come here at all, they don't need to be in parliament, they need elections, because the parliamentary majority doesn't mean anything, since the rotation is agreed, so now we have a rotation and where the Constitution has predicted and where it hasn't predicted. The second question I asked earlier is the question of the law, the existing BiH Council of Ministers Act. It is not true that the BiH Council of Ministers does not exist as they say, it exists under the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and is valid until a new council is set up, or is confirmed by a new council of ministers in accordance with the provisions that exist there, even when only the council resigns. Therefore, the interpretation that the BiH Council of Ministers does not exist is not true. In practice, the international community has taken over the presidency of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the co-chair and chairman, and so in practice, by law, the Council of Ministers of BiH continues to exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5337	Dear gentlemen, don't be nervous, there's no reason. There's no reason, there's no harm, there's no other harm. Mr Silajdžić has the right to say what he says, but I want to say quite precisely, here, gentlemen, should we see if there was honesty or public deception by the BiH Presidency? You've got to see it here. The problem is being transferred to parliament where there is no problem. The problem is, gentlemen, the Council of Ministers in the Presidency. I want the public to see it. I'm ready to leave tomorrow morning with this agenda item, or today, as a last resort, if the gentlemen arrive here in this house and talk to them and ask them a few questions. Did they agree or deceive the international and domestic public with their own proposal in the first place? I want to know how they voted. Did they really measure the professional, moral and other qualities of the candidates, so they defined themselves and I want to repeat what Mr Špirić said "a reflection of the situation in the BiH presidency and their honesty", it is seen today in the vote for conclusion, it is visible today. I'm not putting this off for an hour. If they arrive in half an hour, we will continue the debate on that point. I can see how interested you are. You ordered your attitude. You see, my opinion is not to be ordered. I don't let anyone order an opinion and think so. I want to ask these gentlemen quite clearly and completely concretely specific questions and that the public hears the answers of these gentlemen to these questions. How to take a different picture of their honesty or dishonesty, their deception, or the truth. You have to let me do this. Help us not to overturn responsibility to parliament. There's no problem here. There's no misunderstanding here. The misunderstanding and the problem is there. I want you to see it, and I'm ready, don't put it on me that it's a delay, if you need to start with that point in an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5338	Ladies and gentlemen, it's me, since you're all explaining why you voted in advance. I've been restrained, simply, and I have to explain it. Since you have needs because you're always against it, before it comes to the vote, some MPs, and some say yes. Why I was restrained, so I wouldn't hurt parliament, but not a single good practice in relations between the BiH presidency and the BiH Parliament. It is not good for the practice in the BiH Parliament... our demands, which we had in relation to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, when we tried, I commended this College for trying, but does not mean that I was to adopt this law, I was against, I tried to restore the role of parliament, it was not successful, it is obvious. He is too late for this effort now, Mr Banjac, to restore all the powers of parliament, or the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm deeply convinced of that. It was too late, and we warned, when we talked, that there would be problems, first of all, we had to follow the law, not some other things. Secondly, I must tell you that I have been in favour of pleading on this agenda point, because I see that there is a strange tension between the College, these gentlemen who chair the House of Representatives and the BiH Presidency. If the College gentlemen tell us MPs that they have not had one joint meeting in the past two years, as the three-headed leadership of the House of Representatives, they have not met once with members of the BiH presidency. They need to be honest with us so they can say. We haven't had a chance to see members of the presidency. We didn't get a chance to talk. I have a feeling you have your own problems and frustrations. Tell us, we will finely replace you and we will find people who will have to respect the BiH presidency when seeking parliament's accession. I've never seen in my life, I've never heard of the President of Parliament begging for two years for someone to receive him or for someone to come to him who's the president of the state. That's inadmissible, that's true. It's not about nominating Mr. Gligorić, it's not about the Bureau's representation through advisors, it's about not having authority, gentlemen chairman, over this home. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5339	This is an insult.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5340	It's not an insult. If you do not have the opportunity to reach members of the BiH presidency, I will not be the one who will vote to conclude that we are bringing members of the Presidency to Parliament. You understand? In conclusion, we cannot bring members of the Presidency to Parliament. That's why I was restrained, to protect you, to protect your authority, and that in some way, to protect the relations between Parliament and the Presidency. But I ask, in conclusion, that you, as representatives, our chairman of this House, hold a meeting with the members of the Presidency, and then that is Parliament's dignity, and not that you suffer here in front of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5341	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, guests, I personally at least once, and I think twice, reacted to the fact that members of the BiH presidency do not attend the meeting of this house. However, I fear that the course of today's session has shown, or offered, one of the reasons why members of the BiH presidency probably do not come to this house. However, I went out to react in one way that I hold, indeed, inappropriate politicisation where we have, a formal bar, a clean situation. I am sorry that my colleague Špirić came out, and I will say that I am responding to his statement and to my colleague Banjac's statement in terms of the introduction of an act, formally clean, valid, something that is formally absolutely inappropriate. The issue of honesty of the BiH presidency members, by my court, and of entering into some background of their personal honesty, in making a decision on the election or appointment of a member of the BiH presidency is extremely unserious, in my court, for this home. counterpart Špirić repeated twice that he knows that BiH presidency members were dishonest. So who in this world can say that they know whether someone is honest or not and where we get the right to question someone's honesty, we deal with an act. A colleague of Banjac also insisted on it. In my opinion, this is a complete sunroof of the elementary principle of work of this home, it came from fellow Špirić twice as a certificate or as an argument that he knows, Maltene, from the position of Bog what members of the BiH Presidency think when they make such a decision, that he also knows that we would vote here on their proposal, it is terrible for this home. I feel very miserable about this argument. In that case, and I mean all that argument that we've heard here countless times, requiring the dignity of this home. Based on Spiric's court, we, gentlemen, are surplus, let's go home nice and let Mr Špirić stay here and dictate the results of our vote, because he knows how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5342	Dear gentlemen, don't be angry that some people have an opinion, it's dangerous for those who don't have one. We have the right to all think and to make arguments. I don't mind 35 people thinking, I don't mind there are those who don't. As for the argument that the Kolegijum should resign because the BiH presidency is not working, that's the first I've heard. God Bog, what Tokić says. I propose and am ready to measure myself with any members of the BiH presidency and by moral and by professional and by all other qualities. I don't know if my colleagues are ready for that. I am ready to measure myself with them on any basis, both morally and professionally and by anything else, so what result it will be, and I would like that result to be revealed when it is established. I'm not running away from such measurements, but please, did you really fall for such branches, as MPs, that we should change the people, adapt them to the Presidency, in this case we are asked to change MPs who will answer to the Presidency. I think it is far more meaningful and acceptable for us to change the Presidency that does not work, if it does not work in the interests of this people and Parliament. Gentlemen, it is inconclusive that I am being denied the right to hear the argument of the BiH presidency members so that I can make a good statement about the election, i.e. accepting or not accepting their candidate. It is inconclusive that to me, here, Parliament is denied the right to see if I have a chance to vote yes or no, to know. Gentlemen, I've been ordered an opinion that I can call even the ugliest expression, as it's been said about poverty here, I won't, but it may be strange, if it's not pathetic, that there are those who don't care about arguments, but let's vote and it doesn't matter what's heard. Let's go, gentlemen, hear the arguments, and then we'll vote. It will be in the interests of the people and of BiH if we hear, so when we hear the exposés, so when we hear the program, on all the elements of that programme, and then I'll say if I'm in or out. I'll pitati the members of the BiH presidency, what did you gentlemen think when you proposed? What do you think of professional, human, other quality candidates? Do you think it's the man who's right for this people and this country, if you think, so do I, but here, gentlemen, he wants to get over it and go there to choose. Raising hands will not solve BiH's problems for or against, but will solve BiH's quality personnel and proven people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5343	I answered, simply intervened that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was an ongoing, open debate. Bring the vote to the end, then argue. We're going to vote on entities. We're voting on the conclusion of Mr. Mirko Banjac. The BiH presidency is called on to take part in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and on its own proposal to confirm the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. It is harmful for the interests of BiH, the unacceptable and endorsing relationship of the BiH presidency on this very important issue. This is literally how Mr. Mirko Banjac filed. We voted all the way we knew. It was a question for and against all. Now, please, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour of this conclusion? Who's against this conclusion? Who's restrained? 36 From RS, who is to this conclusion? Who is against this conclusion from the RS? Thank you very much. The results of the vote finally. Attending 28 members – MPs. For, of all, it voted 14. The Federation of BiH voted 3, against nothing, abstentioned nothing. RS, it was 11. This conclusion didn't go either. Now I'm giving a break an hour for lunch, and then you'll have the exact agenda as you voted it. PAUZA According to the Secretariat's report, there are 27 MPs here, therefore, we can proceed with the session. According to the adopted agenda, which we voted here for the 20th session of the House of Representatives, we have 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th, 18th and 19th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives; 2nd. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer Mirko Banjac and Pere Skopljak; 3. Appointment of members of the working committees and 4. Answers to MPs' questions and MPs' questions. Therefore, I am obliged to ask you for an integrally adopted agenda, although we have voted individually, I ask you, who is for this agenda of this session? Who's in, asking everything? At least unanimously, please, who's from the entity for? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it? From the RS, who's in? Who's against it? Of the 29 present, 29 voted yes, overall. From the Federation of BiH 16. From the RS, it voted 13 in favour. So this is the agenda, thank Bog, adopted. I'm opening a debate on the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 17th, 18th and 19th session of the material you have and I am opening the debate. Here you go. Is there a debate on this point?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5345	The esteemed MPs, of course, have no objection to the minutes, I haven't even been able to read them, with two last sessions. I ask that future records be delivered at least a day early so that we can look at them. Thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5346	Here, the conclusion is supported. Is there any more discussion about the record? Records from the 18th and 19th sessions, according to my statement, you got really late, but the technique was such that if you're not willing to discuss them, you have the right to plead with them. Does anyone else have an argument? Can we accept these records? Who's in, asking everything? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, I ask, who's in favour? Please, I don't want to get into that trap again the way I walked in. Who's against the Federation of BiH? From the RS, I ask, who's in? Who's against it? The results of the vote, of the 29 present 26 is for. According to entities, from the Federation of BiH 15 for, the RS voted 9. The abstentions weren't against it. Thus, records for the 17, 18, and 19 sessions were adopted. Any objections to the vote? Ad.2. The draft Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I hope you also have timely materials sent here. By the way, I'm going to say that we've had one seminar of three fat days around the Rules of Procedure and that this material, I hope, we've all worked together and we know it pretty well. I think we've done this point by the end, or here I'm opening a debate over this point. Here you go, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5347	Ladies and gentlemen, I am interested, since we have received in the material for this session's call that the proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the Presidential College, is in place. Now we have a situation that only two members of the College, and about the amendments I've made, I guess, have declared a complete college. Is there a need for the Proposer to now declare on all amendments, because we don't know how we're going to get out of this, whether the amendments are accepted or not. It's a quality new situation. That is why I am asking the Proposer to make a statement on the amendments, whether or not he accepts it, so that I may participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5348	The amendments were accepted, though at the College, but only those who were unanimously accepted, which were voted by all three members of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5349	38 [[You can't hear exposure.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5350	Personally, I think it's technically fine. I am not a lawyer, because we have both voted in favour of these amendments, which is what they have been submitted to you and against those who have been submitted to you, that they are unacceptable. Therefore, I believe that we can formally forward here with such amendments as have been accepted, i.e., which have not been accepted, as you have in your materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5351	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have addressed a series of amendments to this draft Rules of Procedure, many MPs here, including myself, to four amendments. As far as I can tell from the report I received, the College or the Proposers, in this case two members of the College, have accepted two amendments, which is on Article 37 and Article 115, and I am pleased. Two amendments, it's on article 19 and article 115, are not accepted, with an explanation I wouldn't read, it's here. However, I would like, if you would allow me to clarify the essence of these amendments. When it comes to Article 19, the position of Mr, should be read, so I said in the amendment "to be in charge", it is about the College, which has certain responsibilities in Article 19, and under the age it says that the College will be in charge of establishing interparliamentary cooperation. However, as we also have the Commission, I would say, for external relations, then I suggested that the College be in charge of initiating and coordinating interparliamentary cooperation, i.e. that part of this cooperation be implemented through this body, through the Commission, and very often directly and should not be prevented from working in this way, because it seems to me, that according to the Interim Rules of Procedure, she has the right to do so. So that was the point of what I've been up to here, so the College will be in charge of the initiation, not the exclusive establishment. If it is an establishment, then the College, I would say, has the exclusive right to establish interparliamentary co-operation and that is the meaning of this amendment and I remain on the proposal to declare this House. When it comes to Article 81, an amendment that is not accepted. It is there to delete the position d. of that member, so I suggested it, and Article 81 is about the way, i.e. the form of a bill that is passed here by MPs or other proposings, and it says "the proposal will contain a design that will contain under a.,b.c., I will not read under d., which I have suggested to delete is, "the financial and other means necessary for the implementation of the law". This means that, when we all propose laws here to Parliament, we must do so, this article 81 also provides for the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law. That's, I'd say, desirable. I'd always try and do my own thing, and I think you should try to make every bill, either in the form of a draft or a proposal stand. However, we need to know that MPs very often do not have enough information to define financial resources to implement a law. In order to define financial resources, we should probably know a much better situation than a certain representative can at a certain point. Here, the latest laws, the proposals we have in the procedure by the MPs, mostly ultimately states that the proposed financial resources could not have been predicted for reasons because they cannot see how much it would cost, or how much money it requires, etc. That was the reason why I suggested that this was not the binding part that must be in the bill, 39 and I agree that it is desirable and that all those who propose the law, which they can put it on, would be good to put it on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5352	Thank you very much, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5353	I'd like to say a few words about the amendments I've given, some of which are not accepted. First of all, I would like to talk about the amendment to the article, it says 101, it's about the amendment to Rule 107, and it could be seen by reading the Rules of Procedure that it's about Article 107, because it's about the implementation of the budget. Since I was in this working group that was working on this proposal, it seemed to me that in this working group we agreed on an opinion, which, of course, did not oblige you as a College, but I think it would be more precise that the amendment to Article 107, not 101, would be accepted, because it says very vaguely here that the BiH Presidency, as recommended by the BiH Council of Ministers, would submit a draft law on the general account of BiH institutions. I don't know what the general bill is, and that's why I gave this amendment. I came from the Budget Law to discuss the report on the execution of the Budget. So the text remains the same, and I would ask the College to plead and accept this amendment to Article 107, not to 101. The BiH presidency will submit, on a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers, a report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions for the previous year, providing data on the revenue and expenditure achieved in the financial year, and the rest of the text remains the same, and in the position of the 2nd member, in the draft law, is replaced by the words "report". That's one thing. I would go back to this proposal that I made as an amendment, and then that amendment was supported by a group of Members of this House. I see the College disagreed with that amendment. It is that we wanted to have a committee in Parliament to monitor the achievement of gender equality. I want to say a few words here about this amendment, because I think that the reason why it was rejected could not be accepted, because no commission is in any situation to deal with these issues, so, if we're going to form subcommittees, how will some commission deal with these issues as part of a subcommittee, which is not even in charge, that's first? Therefore, these other members were to be processed. Personally, I think that the BiH Parliament should have this commission for these reasons. In BiH, no one is organised to deal with gender equality issues. BiH was a member of the UN and signatories of a series of conventions and accepted and participated in the 1995 Beijing Conference, accepted its declaration and platform, the Action Programme for Implementation of the Resolution. I raised a parliamentary question here half a year ago to get a response from the Council of Ministers of BiH, who is dealing with these issues and what has been done so far, and whether we have responded to UN committees which have asked us to inform them what has been done so far on these specific issues and what our preparations for the next UN session have been done. I never got an answer. I personally think that you, as well as a number of other indicators, are saying that this issue is not being organised by anyone. 40 Since the BiH Parliament, thanks to the rules and regulations of the OSCE, the electoral rules and regulations of the OSCE, has the most members of the women's parliament, I think it is natural that we elected to Parliament could address these issues and that we should be one driving body. I don't think the commission should just be women. In the commission, we should be equally represented and fight equally for gender equality, but I think it is an opportunity, where we are present, for this issue to be launched and that through Parliament we can activate other state bodies, starting with the Council of Ministers of BiH and beyond. Secondly, in some other parliaments such as the Republic of Slovenia, where we have been visiting, there has long been this commission which, I say, has given birth to an office dealing with gender equality issues, means, in the preparatory phase of the law, before they come, or other acts that must not be just regulations. In the preparatory phase, the ministries, the council of ministers, theirs, I don't know what their names are, executive council or executive council, it doesn't matter, they deal with these issues. We don't have it in BiH. To create space so that we can deal with these issues and talk, I think the least we can do is a gender equality commission. When we say gender equality, I think the commission should deal equally with each other's sexes, but my intention is firstly to deal with women's positions, because no matter what they say about it, that position is not the same. Finally, let's look at all the bodies that we've chosen here, and start with these parliamentary commissions, but, well, if we ignore them, let's take the Council of Ministers and all the bodies that the Council of Ministers is setting up, and we'll see what kind of structure is. We, I think, must have institutionally set mechanisms, to deal with these issues and to ask both colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment. It won't cost parliament much, and I think it will give more benefit to BiH and finally tell the women of BiH, but what we would have done if we didn't accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5354	Since Mirko and my smallness have taken over the role of the people we propose, here is the amendment, that is, the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5355	Dear colleagues and colleagues, when it comes to the amendment to Article 107. In the view of the first and the second, we, as proposings, are of the opinion that this amendment can be accepted because it improves the significant text. When it comes to this committee, we cannot accept this amendment for the following reasons, not because we don't need to. It is certain that this question should be addressed, the position of women, or gender equality, but the fact is something else. Is it the Commission for the promotion and protection of the position of the child, at least as important as this Commission and we could go further, but therefore the possibility is left in this Rules of Procedure that every commission from its jurisdiction can form a subcommittee? I do not believe that the result of the work and the quality of the commission's work will be better than in the subcommittee, if it is taken seriously and if the problems are solved. I wouldn't want us to bite the contents with our form. Since there is a need to resolve this issue, we are thinking that it can be solved by a subcommittee, but again, because if this issue is opened, which 41 absolutely has reasons, as the MP Mrs Muminagić says, I, for example, will, at the same time open the issue of the commission to improve and protect the position of the child. You know how many children are lost today without parents in this war. You know how many children are abused in a variety of ways. You know how many children are subject to the influence of alcohol, drugs, tobacco and so forth, even though this question doesn't deserve priority over women's positions, I think it deserves, personally, then we'll ask that question, but I think we'll go too far. To that end, the position of the promoter is that these issues that are important are addressed by subcommittees.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5356	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, to remind myself that I have a passport for equality in my hand, that is BiH, BiH is this convention for all species, the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, signed, BiH as well as the other 163 countries of the world. It's about one convention that obliges us to a very active fight to eliminate all kinds of discrimination against women, that's the first. Secondly, as members of the Interparliamentary Union, we have had opportunities, both in Berlin and in Aman, to see very clearly, that there is a world structure where 125th organization and parliaments from around the world are present, a question of full equality between women and men, there is a level of precise and clear political definition today for all mankind, and I think that, in this respect, as a member of the Interparliamentary Union, we finally have to do some jobs to promote gender equality, because this is a very clear position of society that intends to build up some modern basis, modern democracy. That's another argument. Third argument. BiH was active in building the Beijing Declaration and thanks to these principles, if you remember, in 1998 it had and received this composition of parliament, I hope that with these new changes, it will strengthen this composition of the BiH Parliament, which is one clear message. In the local elections, two years later, on the open lists, the BiH voting body voted, in practice, not to say twice as much, but almost twice as much, according to data we received from the OSCE compared to 1998 and from 1997, compared to local and general elections. In BiH, last month's local elections gained 18% of women's confidence in the lists. This means, in fact, that we should take these three arguments into account and regarding the proposal we heard from the proposings by Mrs Muminagić and on behalf of all women MPs in the BiH Parliament, I would like to sign on that proposal. I would like to say publicly that I am pleased that Mrs Muminagić said she wanted to open a space for men in that commission 50% - 50%, to promote a principle that is very valuable and that will allow us to talk about anything tomorrow, for example. on the composition of the Council of Ministers, we do not give confidence to the Council of Ministers, unless the mandater introduces at least the appropriate number of women in the Council of Ministers. These are the opportunities that parliament has. If today we reject Mrs Muminagić's proposal and our MPs and compare it with the proposal made by Mr Banjac, one proposal would affect another proposal, I would like to say that would be a multiple damage. I would therefore first sign the proposal made by Mrs Muminagić and a group of MPs, and secondly, I would also support Mr Banjac. In this 42 purpose, no subcommittee, if Mr Banjac has explained this precisely one proposal on youth, children, drugs, toxins and all that we all know well in the whole BiH area, especially when it comes to the fates of children and young people on education and indifference, I would like to support, no obstacles to us, to create a commission that will specifically deal with the team. I think that's correct. But it is not possible to eliminate with problems related to children, which are related to such a complex complex, the proposal we received from the Members of Parliament. I am also pleased to hear today Mr Divković's clear stance, which we have repeatedly expressed, which is that our commissions, our working bodies, are in fact representing the BiH Assembly in the session. When any committee sits, the session, practically, parliament. In that sense, I don't think there's any need for jurisdiction, let's say, the Kolegijuma and one of the committees, in this case the Foreign Policy Commission, and any other commissions to interfere or to overlap. I support Mrs. Muminagić's proposal and the letter. I suggest that Mr. Banjac explain this proposal in terms of formal entry into the Rules of Procedure, I think we are in a position to do so. And I would like to say that this is not a build-up of Parliament's working bodies, but a focus on those interests that need to be devoted to our country. I'd like to talk about it, too, and when we have business stuff later, we have a very specific conversation. That's two suggestions. It is my opinion that it would be good to accept it as a good sign of concern for the real problems of society.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5357	We've made our proposals and our visions. Unless you agree with these conclusions which amendments should go to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5358	I did not give the amendments in writing, however, here I would make two adjustments in terms of two amendments, first of all, this Article 15, point 2. I don't think it's the happiest solution for a club representative to form at least three MPs. For what? Due to the simple fact that we can countercipe that in the future the moment of prularisation will be strengthened in the elections, probably the parties will be represented by one or two MPs, and therefore it would be more logical to stand here in position 2. "The Club of Representatives will form at least two MPs," that is my proposal, in the form of amendments, to go to this Rules of Procedure. Another thing, with a member of the 16th. I think that there is one kind of consistency in two sentences that determine the content of this Article 16 where it stands "the club of representatives autonomously edits its organisation and action", and then stands out "it will have the chairman and vice-president". On the one hand, it is not possible to point to the autonomy of an organisation of a particular club, and on the other hand, in some ways, to define the principle of work, or something that affects that organisation itself and its activities. Therefore, I propose that this sentence number 2 be deleted and that Article 16 stands only "every club of MPs autonomously edits its organisation and action". 43 The third thing, I would like to give one suggestion, a proposal to the current Commission on External Relations, the College and all MPs to think, is here prematurely for such a single commission, but I think it would be worth considering also joining the establishment of a Commission on European Affairs, given that in this new version we have defined such a single ministry, it would be good to have a corresponding – a correspondence committee in the assembly of the House of Representatives. On the other hand, because it is a well-established practice in the work of transition countries, i.e. countries that have a tendency to move towards European integration, so it would be good about... external activities, in a way to distinguish from the purely activities involved in our convergence with European integration. However, I say, in this stage it may be too early to go with such a commission, but it would be good for the current commission to consider, possibly, all implications, the scope of the work of such a commission and propose as a form of correction of this Article 35, which defines the permanent commission at home. It is not a European organisation for security and co-operation, but an Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, that is to say, a language correction in Article 37.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5359	Please, we must make written suggestions. Don't expect us to follow all your discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5360	If we are close to adopting one of the rules of procedure, which we have long considered, for almost a year it has been from drafts to proposals, here, to the final proposal, we have also had amendments. I say, if we're close, and it seems to me that we are, then I'll give up those amendments that I have proposed in my time, and I can see that they have not entered this proposal, but I would support some of the amendments that have been discussed. I'm not going to quote them on those earlier amendments. One of these amendments that I would support is Mr Divković's amendment, which is in article 19, where it should stand, indeed, that the College will not be in charge of establishing international co-operation, but for the work of BiH institutions competent for foreign affairs and international relations. Mr.'s position is that the College will be in charge of initiating and coordinating interparliamentary co-operation. If you look at Article 37, which is the responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Commission, then you will see that it is indeed within the authority of that commission, which is once again confirmed by this other amendment, where it says that... Article 37. And I support this, too, that the position e. should be that something is being modified and that "the Foreign Affairs Commission will consider issues, not co-operation with BiH institutions, but the work of BiH institutions in charge of international affairs", etc., I would really support these two amendments, and I would ask the promoter to have it in mind that, if they are able to accept it, it is small modifications, but that fix certain things. Whether it is a subject or not now and whether we are going to go into detail or not, I would support this proposal that they have signed, it seems to me, most of the ladies in Parliament, I don't think we will have much harm from this supplement, on the contrary, we can benefit, I also support this amendment, which was explained by Mrs Muminagić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5361	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I'd like to say is, I'd say, updating to what Mr. Špirić said about this agenda point, and I'd say about adopting the agenda. In fact, I must admit that it's quite mysterious to me, how after a few months of the College, I would say in a very clear composition, it suddenly breaks, so that the College is not proposing this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, but it's two members of the College, and without a third. I think either these two members of the College, or the third member of the College, have to explain how this happened and what was the dispute, because no doubt that this dispute would occur, we just might have to wait an hour, that's the first. Another thing I'm saying is that at the very least I'm surprised by the position of this two from the College, who proposed this Rules of Procedure, which ignored the legitimate position of eight, I think, eight signatories - nine, of this proposal to set up a gender equality commission, as some kind of global political trend, which we finally have the opportunity to enjoy in these areas and not take advantage of the opportunity to make a step in BiH's parliamentary life. They had a unique opportunity to get something that others had already prepared, simply take, and they even refused. That's really surprising, I have to admit. No arguments with any other important questions here should be compared. Let other important questions be raised and we will accept them. Third thing. Unfortunately, I have not submitted the amendment, but in article 53 and the later members, the issue of what we call a replica is regulated, a reaction to a certain matter. However, the fundamental thing in this parliament is not regulated at least when it comes to speech. There is no regulated question of the length of the original speech at one point in the agenda. I believe that it must be in Article 53, paragraph 2, and that it should be made clear whether that length of speech is 5, 7 or 10 minutes. It seems to me that this is a parliament with elected people from the BiH state and that in five minutes we can all say what we have on each agenda. It would be a great responsibility for the members of the BiH Parliament, I think that 10 minutes is too long for an explication at each point in the agenda. I propose that, if they stay, in Article 128 and in subsequent members, one is introduced, I would say a political, parliamentary concept called impelation. We have so far not had that notion in BiH's political life. I want, I expect, and I suggest that the legislators of the Rules of Procedure at the beginning define the concept of interpretation, and then explain how to use it. I think the definition here is, too, important, what it is, is the interpretation, so we can use the interpretation. I'd like to join one request, I know you're going to take it a little bit, maybe some of you won't accept it until the end. Mr. Adnan Jahić was talking about a two-man club. However, I would go one step further. A club of representatives and a club representative, each elected representative of one political party, coalitions and options, regardless of whether one can be treated, in this case, as a club of representatives, because it represents, by the minimum election results, around 30,000 BiH citizens. Each elected representative in this parliament is not a representative for himself, but because of at least 30,000 citizens who voted for him, which is why he should get club status, because he is not a club to himself, nor are you, conditionally said, from several parties to the club of the number of elected MPs. I, as the elected representative of the Liberal Party, have to communicate with some people whose problems here are being discussed under certain legal projects, and therefore 45 individually elected candidates should receive the status of a club of representatives, so that through this club, as an official form, they can express the opinion of those who elected them in this House of Representatives. I believe, therefore, that there is no here, since it is only 42 MPs, and by the way still divided in 28 + 14, that we can accept this completely simplified form of club organisation, because then we would all have equal rights. Why am I saying this? On this principle, the MPs' club, as proposed by the proposings, would have more rights in parliamentary debate than those elected, which do not have the right to form a club on this principle. We all have to equalise all MPs with regard to the rights and obligations in this House and therefore support this more liberal approach to resolving this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5362	Honourable MPs, I will first look back at the amendments that I have made, and then I will give my vision of some of the amendments that others have made. I must say, all the amendments I've tabled have been rejected by the motionary. One was adopted, but he's actually a purely technical mistake, so it's not an amendment. I'm just going to look at Article 4 and Article 35, in Article 4, I'm, I wouldn't read to you right now, I'm proposing this paragraph one to regulate itself differently. As proposed, such a proposal is in line with the Constitution and it is proposed as it is in the current Rules of Procedure and I personally consider it simpler, but given that you have all received these amendments, I would not read it, refers to the election of members of Parliament's presidency. I'd only say that there's one mistake here, that it's not the Council of the Ministries, it's the Council of the Minsitarians, but that's what you must have seen. I think this amendment should be adopted, I think it would be far better if the election of the chairman was done in this way. We've had it so far. I'm not giving up on this amendment, like I'm not giving up on anyone else. As for Amendment number 2 to Article 35, it concerns the choice of MPs in the committees of parliament, so that one MP is highest in two commissions. I suggested that this be erased, if it didn't limit themselves, I'd say, and the rights of counsel. I do not think that this will achieve anything better, nor that it will make Parliament's work more effective, and I do not think that this formulation, as it is in Article 36.1.b, does not stand. Not 36th, but 35th, to delete paragraph 2. I'd like to look back on the amendments Mrs. Suada gave. I'm not one of those signatories you've been talking about since 11. However, I believe, and it concerns one of the committees in Parliament that would refer to gender equality, I believe that this amendment should be Suada and I think we should also form such a committee. As for the other amendments, I would also accept everything, I mean the amendments made by Mrs. Suada, except for the amendments to Article 143. The amendment said that the BiH presidency, at the request of the House, and at least once a year, would submit a report to the House on the expenditures of the BiH presidency. As it is formulated, it stands at the request of the House, but it is said at least once a year and that, as a permanent obligation, would be entered into the Rules of Procedure. We can't do that, because according to the constitution, the BiH presidency will, at the request of the House, do so. 46 The House may request that a report be submitted, but not that it is imperative to say that it is a once-a-year obligation. I would also like to say that I support Mr. Divković's amendment to the 81st year of finance, you heard him, so I would not speak of it specifically, as well as the proposal made by Mr. Kadić, regarding the length of the speech. Of course all these amendments could be said even more, and if there are opportunities and needs, I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5363	I apologize for picking up again, but I answered the line. I assume Mr. Banjac spoke in front of the promoter. It's about the amendment I made, and I wanted to do it, not replicate, but explain some things. I am pleased that the two members of the College who have proposed this Rules of Procedure are raising the question of child protection and the possibility of forming a working body and that is exactly why we advocate, as they say, responsible parenting, means that both parents are taking care of children and you see that we are making progress, Ibro, you are not, however, rightly making little progress. I will support any proposal to be written and to form such a working body, whether as a subcommittee or a commission. I agree it'll be a commission. The only thing I disagree with is these two conditions. If you need this commission, then you need another. If they need both of them, let's form them both. Make a suggestion, I'll back you up. I wouldn't condition it. We have now made this proposal, this commission if it works well, make sure it takes care of the children, but I am not contesting this, I do not deny at all the need and the right to form another commission. Therefore, I will give my support to such a committee. Since I've already called to make my statement about these two amendments that Mr. Banjac and Skopljak have made. Change.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5364	It's a change. We can't give amendments to your... They're corrections.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5365	Well, I can't be correct if we got a different text than it was when we read it, so now I want to say something about it. I do not think it would be a good solution to change this in Article 31, because in Article 31, I remind you, it stands “the Commission decides through a simple majority, provided that it is attended by at least a majority of its members”, and a continuation of “except for the final decisions on which the House does not declare itself, when the Commission decides in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 63. The Rules of Procedure, by making an effort to reach agreement between the chairperson, first and second vice-president." Here the commission has been put into office and given the same way of deciding, I am talking about the Rules of Procedure, about the proposal we received, given the same way of deciding as home, then when its decisions are final, and when they are not final, for the sake of more effective work, it has been proposed to be a simple majority, nothing that goes through the commission, and comes to the House, it does not have to be adopted, if it is not voted in the way it has been established, that according to the Constitution of the House of Voices. This is a better solution for more efficient work and 47 of this solution we discussed in the working group. I was in the situation, and I was in it, so we graded it, and I'm not saying it for the task force, but I think it's a better solution that when the commission has to prepare something for the House, then it can decide, because it doesn't make decisions, it just makes a proposal for a simple majority, because it's better to do more effective work, and when the House decides, it decides the way it's meant by the Constitution. I think it would be good for him to remain a member of 31st, which is why I felt, since we didn't get this before, that this is subject to discussion. Everything proposed is subject to discussion. Therefore, I would like to advocate that article 31 remain. Let me say to Mrs Havel, concerning this proposal by the BiH Presidency, my amendment, here is exactly what the Constitution says: "The powers of the Presidency. The Bureau is responsible for submitting the report on the expenditures of the Bureau to the Parliamentary Assembly, at its request, but at least once a year." I'm the one who prescribed it. So, constitutionally at the request of Parliament, but at least once a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5366	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you know that for a long time efforts have been made to make this Rules of Procedure and much work has been done. We had, as has already been noted, a two-day seminar, where in a large degree there was an agreement. We have remained long on one issue that deals with the way we decide on the election of the chairman and adoption of the Rules of Procedure. And there's a compromise sought and a compromise found. There may have been a different view on this issue, for the reasons why the Constitution explicitly treats the issue. Namely, the constitution says that each home will by majority vote adopt its rules of procedure and choose among its members of one Srbin, one Bošnjak and one Hrvat for the chairman and vice-president, with the seat of the chairman rotating between the three people. Thus, the constitution states that the chairmans are elected by the majority of votes. Of course, I'm aware of all the bad side of a solution like this, but the facts are impertinent and the Constitution states this. Ten days ago, I promoted this issue as one of the members of the group of Members who were to come to the proposal. I then suggested that since we had different views, after all we had done, since we had different views on this issue, I suggested asking for the opinion of the High Representative, who, according to the Dayton Peace Agreement, is the final interpreter of the BiH Constitution and that there be some attitude that would help resolve this issue. For procedural reasons, to this day the answer has not arrived, for the question seems not sent in time. For those reasons, we differed today. I could not stand by the proposal, i.e. we could not agree on what proposal we would finally put forward on the way in which the chairman was elected. For this reason, this proposal is in that version of the three MPs, in this variant of the two MPs. It may have been better to wait for that response from OHR, however, since fellow MPs have, however, been at the point of going with this proposal, we should treat it as a legitimate proposal by the two MPs. Since this is now a proposal for two MPs, this intervention in the correction of the text has followed in two places. One place is in Article 4, item 5. This 48 issue, which I have raised as a question, is the problem and now the proposings propose that the election decision of the chairman and vice-president be made by the majority of the votes of those MPs present and voting, which includes most of the RS MPs and most of the Federation of BiH MPs. The Constitution states that the decision is made by most MPs of all who have been elected, so of 42, most of them are 22, here most of the MPs present and voting and expanding quality in such a way that the majority of them contain the half majority of one and the other entity. I will also, in accordance with my understanding, as prescribed in the Constitution, propose an amendment. I will deliver the amendment in writing, as it is regulated in the Constitution, so that it may be in the Rules of Procedure. To make most of the elected MPs in the House of Representatives, the decision to elect the chairman. The second correction in the text, it is essentially dissuading from what has been discussed, but since this is now a proposal from the MPs, it has legitimate rights to do so. In fact, the solution that was in the earlier text, which was in circulation during the work, seems to me to be much more functional, more practical than this solution where it is proposed that the decision board be taken by the majority composed of most members of the RS commission and most of the members of the Federation of BiH commission. I think it's this way to conclude that the commissions are two-part. Commissions of the House of Representatives are not two-part. They are committees of the House of Representatives, and I think that a solution that was previously achieved is sufficient protection of the interests of both parties and entities and peoples, etc., and also more functional. I will therefore propose that amendment in the sense that there remains a solution that was left in that text sent to the MPs and, of course, I will deliver it in writing. It is a question and an answer that I have also owed to my fellow Members and, in a certain way, so are my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5367	Dear gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I have no replica, and this is the answer and this is an explanation of the situation as it is. Of course, I don't diminish the right for everyone to say what he's thinking right now, but there's only one truth. Two truths don't exist. The fact is, it's next. We agreed in Neum the final text, with the agreement of OHR representatives. That text was dropped by a fellow Genjac. Which is the difference between the proposed text and that text. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure and the selection of members of the Kolegijum, it is agreed below to be carried out in accordance with the procedure for the adoption of legislative acts and thus agreed by the OHR representative today, of course, there was no change in Article 31 in the case of Neum. Today, Mr. Skopljak and I will accept what was agreed there without discussion, if that is a compromise. However, Mr. Genjac did not want to accept this this morning, considering his right and I do not dispute his right to give this up, but it must be known who gave up. Why did this change occur in Article 4, point 5, and that's very important and it was good to know. In the Constitution, it is true that the election of members of the Kolegijum, the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, is done mostly by those present and voting. Gentlemen, you know that in the same Constitution, not to mention a member of the Constitution is prescribed, if he can, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it's about our skin, so it would be good to listen without hearing from each other. It is true that it is regulated in the Constitution that 49 are done mostly, but it is also true that the Constitution regulates that the House of Representatives consists of one-third of the RS MPs whose electoral base is the RS and two-thirds of the Federation of BiH whose electoral base is the Federation of BiH. Our definition, as a promoter, was that most must include the majority of one entity and most of the other entity. Anything else would be absolute unconstitutional and unacceptable. Why? Because two-thirds, gentlemen, are always at the same time most of them, and every job could be done if no member, or MP from the RS, would be in favour. That, gentlemen, is unacceptable. The second thing, in the preamble to the BiH Constitution, is that all three peoples, of course, are equally and constitutive. This model, proposed by us as a proponent, to be the majority of one entity and another, guarantees that without the consent of the MPs of any people, no such important decision can be made, which is very important to protect the mechanism for each people. I stress this for every nation. Please, that's what we have to do if we want to develop democracy in these places. When it comes to Article 31, then I think that dear colleague Muminagić did not understand, perhaps, the essence of this amendment. This isn't about any part of the vote. This is about something else. So this is how it's supposed to be. The Commission decides through a simple majority, with the condition that it is present, there is one linguistic error here, which is nonsense, but is being subdued, said the smallest majority, there is not at least a majority, there is a majority. So, the commission decides through a simple majority, with the condition that most members are present, and then the text is added, which consists of most members of the RS commission and most members of the Federation of BiH commission. It's not about decision-making, it's about the composition of the majority. What do you want with that? If the commission is composed, and it is, it reflects the composition of the PSBiH House of Representatives. We know that in each commission we have one-third of the commission members from the RS MPs and two-thirds from the Federation of BiH. So, commissions, as working bodies of the assembly, must also reflect both party, entity and every other assembly of parliament and we have taken care of it. If it wasn't like this, then the members of the RS would be a decoration, a pendant, which would hang there without any jurisdiction or opportunity to influence anything, because there are two-thirds of them at the same time. So, the commission can also call and work so that no member of the RS commission attends it, and that, gentlemen, would not be the right thing to do. So this is not where decisions are asked to be made, this is where decisions are made, by simple majority, i.e., when they are finally made, as in the House of Representatives, and we do not dispute, but we are asking that qualified majority of representatives of one and the other entity, that is, protection, colleagues and colleagues, the rights of MPs to influence something, that they may influence that someone would not invite someone and call a meeting without the presence of MPs from one entity, thereby questioning entity equality, which is guaranteed by the Constitution in one case or another. The basic desire is to protect the equality of entities and protect the sovereignty of peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5368	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly to give my review. According to this story, it seems that members of the College did well or cooperated only while they were in Neum. After that, here's the proposal we have in hand. If he were to push himself to the finish line, then this proposal that we have today would have to be experienced, formally, the same fate as Nikola Špirić's proposal, as an MP, which was not in writing. I received 50 for the session the starting material in which the College of the House of Representatives writes, so that in the course of this session, it would stand out as a proposal from the two MPs, formally, is wrong and I could say that this proposal must go through the same procedure as my proposal from the last session and each other. I don't think he's doing well without getting angry, of course, Mr. Neimarlija, that I'm going to be predicting right now. Whenever one of the members of the College sets out his opinion or disagrees with the proposal, the proposal faces a fate like any proposal so far and is not voted upon. As far as my position on this proposal is concerned, I will have the same view of this proposal as the College had of the amendments I have proposed. Since the amendments have been rejected as part of the entire College, they, as Mr Skopljak said, have been confirmed by the proposings, two MPs, I have the same position on the proposal of this Rules of Procedure. I am against such a proposal and I do not think it is a good thing that it has not tried to find any more time, nothing will fail to come to an agreement that would look like a harmonised proposal in parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5369	I have to replicate, which is perfectly logical. Comrade Špirić, I'm sorry I have to warn you. In the Rules of Procedure, temporary, there is no possibility, no possibility, that the Kolegijum should be proposed, and that is an illusion, you must read it. I may be proposing three Members of Parliament. At this point, one of the MPs split up and said he couldn't stand behind it, for the reasons explained by man. Two MPs took advantage of their rights and did so and do not associate with this Kolegiju. But if you gentlemen want to adopt the Rules of Procedure, then don't ask for side effects. Find the essentials, so refuse what you want to refuse. Don't do that, look for hair in the egg here, you know that you can't find it, you understand, you can't find it, and that's the thing, if you don't want this home to have a Rulesman, that's your thing, that's your thing, that's the amendments we've been talking about now, as you've seen, we've responded immediately to the amendment of colleague Muminagić. A colleague suggested something good and we move on, that's the way to do it. We're going to accept everything that is, not this, in general, I am for this, not because this is or isn't. Let us face the facts of what is and what is not, what is constitutional and what is not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5370	I ask the promoter when he sends materials to keep an eye on the MPs, that the College spends as much time together as we MPs, perhaps times two, is not enough for the successful work of parliament. I remind you that I've got the material, says point 3. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Proposer??? The House of Representatives, so now a member of the College would tell me that they have no right to do so in the Rules of Procedure and tell me not to make something up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5371	That's what you need to know, not me, man.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5372	I know that this is wrong, but if it wasn't going to go into it, I said my clear position, that it would be good if there were a harmonised attitude, because it went from that 51 starting solutions and it wouldn't lead to a final solution, and my position is the same as yours towards the Rules of Procedure as yours towards the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5373	Everyone here gets angry, but it seems to me, I'd have the most reason to be angry, because when I answer the word, there's always some interference on relationships, but well, I'm not angry at all. I would ask you, fellow MPs, if we ask to come up with some act in which no one will have any objections, so we are doomed to kill one Durgian. Come on, please, be able to distinguish what's the essential question, and what's, let me put it that way, marginally. We don't have a chance here. At every point in the agenda, we would like to show how smart we are, whether we have shown and indicated, so that they too may fail. Let's not, if they missed last session, that we're killing them by the end of this term because of the problem. Everyone makes mistakes and it's not easy for them, here, I'm going to put myself in their defense now, but I got out for something else. I went out and that's why I asked Mr. Genjac to stay, because this discussion of mine is about what he just said. I would ask him to, as a member of this Kolegijum, have flexibility to the extent that some things that, indeed, are not disputed are not driven to the end, because this part of my discussion refers to whether it is by the Constitution or not by the Constitution. According to the Constitution is what is now proposed as a supplement. The election decision is made by a majority of those MPs present and voting, which includes most RS lawmakers and most of the Federation of BiH MPs. So, the Constitution isn't hurt. This satisfies the constitutional provision under which one who has a majority passes. Here, the rules of procedure, which are perfectly normal, by additional legal acts, define certain constitutional acts in detail. There's just a little step ahead here and it explains what the majority does and says most of them are made by the majority of each entity. So nothing has been broken by the Constitution, but indeed, one justice is satisfied. I ask you, would one of you allow a member, or chair of his deputies, one Srbin, one Hrvat and one Bošnjak, to be selected in the Constitution. Would you allow and vote for someone to impose something on someone? It will be a long time in BiH when it will be relevant, still it is, I assure you... and why we should impose on someone. I really wouldn't want to, here, if I were in a position, for example, and as proposed, could it happen for a member of the RS presidency not to vote???.. Was that in your interest? Do you think that organ could work? Do you think there'd be a deal and a consultation in that case? We care about going to work once already. Indeed, I consider this as a compromise form, an addition that is based on the Constitution, nothing is touched by the Constitution, and it guarantees that this assembly or its next composition, when elected, will do and pass laws as well as its task. So once again I ask Mr. Genjac as a doctor, as a man in the field of these natural sciences, where the fastest path goes to the truth, and not the other way around, to understand this reality.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5374	I'll be very brief, so we'll be able to move on to the plea very soon. However, when it comes to the election decision, the majority of the votes of those MPs present and voting are made, it involves most of the RS MPs and most of the BiH Federation 52 MPs. I think, and I suggest, it would be logical for me to make the decision the same way we make, practically, all other decisions here, the same way when it comes to voting and the same way we make the laws, etc. So, in exactly the same way. Take the Constitution and you'll see that he's about to, so now I'm not quoting and reading, but paraphrasing, that two-thirds can't be against, that's what we do all the time, and that means we don't have to explain. It's my suggestion that this decision on this is made by this concept. If we bring in this concept, then we eliminate this majorisation problem, but we have eliminated a possible problem, that is, a possible blockade, etc. Well, that's my contribution. Thank you very much. Since no one has reported for further discussion, we are continuing the debate, but we are taking a break of 20 minutes. I suggest we stop working, though, because we didn't do anything today. We have a meeting with the OHR, briefly, we hope that in ten minutes, but, here, 15 minutes of working this home. The session is delayed, and a new session is scheduled on Tuesday, if I'm not mistaken, that's 16, you'll get calls, after all, and a written explanation, thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 18.25 hours. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5376	Dear MPs, allow us to proceed with the 20th session, because, according to the Secretariat's report, we have a quorum. I suggest that we continue the 20th session with a minute of silence for tragically deceased people who went to pray to Bog, I think that's good anyway. So, a minute of silence for the tragically deceased at Kaknja. May their eternal glory and their light black earth. Ladies and gentlemen, for this continuation of the session, our regular guests who participate in the session have been invited. I welcome all present and thank you for your presence. I would like to inform you that the session is attended by 23 MPs, 14 from the Federation of BiH and 9 from RS. They justified the absence of gentlemen: Ivo Mijačević, Sejfudin Tokić, Mrs Mikulić Anita and Mr Tarik Čaršimamović. I apologize for what happened to move this session, which was scheduled as a continuation of the session, which was scheduled to be the 21st session, but because of the situation we have, which we can discuss later and talk about later, we moved this session to this session, and the 20th session continues at 11 o'clock. During the day, we expect a report from the BiH Presidency, which is sitting right at the same time and a proposal from the new prime minister, I believe that you are familiar with the situation of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers through the press and other information. In an invitation to this session...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5377	Gentlemen, as a representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I was invited to begin today's 21st session of the House of Representatives and to discuss the proposal to appoint the BiH Council of Ministers. At this point, the chairman begins the 20th session, without any explanation, and I find that this is not a good introduction to today's session. I believe that the College of the House of Representatives must explain to us the reasons why, possibly, the 21st session has been postponed, why it is giving up the proposed agenda, i.e., from the session and some other details, probably from the talks the College had with the BiH presidency, as a proposal for a new president of the BiH Council of Ministers. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5378	Thank you very much. Clearly, the explanation and the reasons you need to hear and, look, you'll hear them now, I'll try to recapture them, and you'll tell me if you're satisfied with it. At a meeting that we held with the BiH presidency yesterday, it was said that the mention of the candidate for which we should have pleaded, Mr Gligorić, had no trust in the international community, so we would be doing a job that would not have the ultimate effect. Then we agreed that the name of the new candidate would eventually be delivered to us today, that is, this home, and since the BiH presidency session is held at this very time when this one is scheduled here, we expect that we will be arriving, a report from that session of the BiH Presidency during the time, and that is why we are simply the permutual order of meetings, anyway, the notice from the BiH Presidency has been given to you on the tables. I hope we've explained it all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5379	Fellow Members and colleagues, esteemed guests, as it is now quite clear that there were both needs and reasons in the last session to remove the point of confirmation of appointments from the agenda, as there is clearly now recognition that members of the BiH presidency were not ultimately assigned to the candidate sent to the House of Representatives. Of course, the criticisms addressed to me, as the man who asked for that item off the agenda, must now be withdrawn and I don't know who else to be referred to, but it's quite clear that there were extra-constitutional shops and there was another unconstitutional action on the scene. Yesterday I heard at the meeting the following comment, and I want to repeat it for both you and the BiH public, which is that the BiH presidency member who withdrew the candidacy has nothing against the candidates or his professional and other qualities, one reason why he cannot support him is the international community's position, as he says, although I object to such a formulation, because it can be talked about part of international organisations, not the international community. The international community is an extremely broad term, which they allegedly do not support. It is obvious, gentlemen, that there is an extra-constitutional action on the scene, because the BiH presidency is obviously not an organ that can competently, in accordance with the Constitution, propose a candidate and thus fulfil its constitutional obligation. Since we have been officially informed, and you have received a letter from the BiH presidency, namely their decision to withdraw the candidacy, the appointment, not Mr Gligorić's candidacy, we have come to a whole new situation, which hopefully will be clarified today. That's why it doesn't say here why the candidate was withdrawn, I felt duty, because I attended the meeting, to publicly state that reason. Of course, I also care that whoever works in such an important and responsible place has preconditions that guarantee his co-operation with international organisations, but it remains questionable whether it is an indirect elimination factor, which will wait for every other candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5380	Thank you very much. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5381	Dear fellow MPs, co-chairmen, information funds, dear guests, namely, here, have now proved once again, in fact, how much we, as MPs of the highest legislature, or the legislative body in BiH, are in what positions we are in, and through the means of informing is constantly imputed, that it is we who are obstructing the choice of the most responsible executives in BiH. I came here just for the reason that I now, last night I came from a big road, a little longer and, here, now I've got the material from which I'm familiar with this decision, although, by the way, I intended to come to the last session for discussion, because I feel totally like a man and as an MP injured, in which way we demean ourselves. We need to make a decision here, a very responsible decision, on the choice of a man who, among other things, should coordinate between the governments of one entity, other entity, besides those of the regular affairs given to him in the BiH Constitution. Given the fact that one of the candidates they supported was proposed, at least from the official decision stems, all three members of the BiH presidency. Last session, however, has already shown a fat reserve that the proposed candidate will not have the support of MPs in the council. The BiH presidency, which is authorised under the Constitution to propose such a man, has not done the job in the way he should have done, with the seriousness that should be in that highest, come on, conditionally speaking, to the BiH-level authority, as appropriate and we have come in a position to take it off the agenda. Chairman, dear colleagues, please, as an MP, that you are in future delivering material on such very important agenda points before the session, because I will no longer receive such material. Also, I cannot be satisfied with the reasoning of the chairman, that the proposed candidate for which I have, by the way, had large reserves and what I thought and the last session and today to discuss, that such points are not put on the agenda at all at all, and that we have previously not obtained timely material, that this is not manipulated by means of public information that, for example, the proposed candidate had the support of most or all MPs, that consultations have been carried out with MPs, I must say here that such claims have been made, that from the political option proposed by the candidate proposed, so from other political options in RS, which is absolutely incorrect, because no one of me, as an MP, and my party, nor my party from which I came, has consulted, concerning which candidate. Please and I have the right to receive the material in due time and to be involved at least in consultation or to receive timely information, not to come into the position that, here we are today, we should wait for a proposal from the BiH Presidency, which should come ahead of this session, that is, at the session itself. I am today, as an MP, if I get such a proposal, I will absolutely fence myself, and I will not even be present when this point is debated, because I find it extremely irresponsible and irresponsible. In this context, I ask you, not only when this agenda point is at stake, but also in the future that are very important, do not put something on the agenda that is not prepared and why we did not receive materials in due time. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5382	Thank you very much. I agree, absolutely, with this kind of thinking, but we do what we can and in the situation that we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5383	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, since I took part in yesterday's meeting and... as a member of the College if I were in this process, I'd like to take a few shades to make this slide?? It'll be complete. I don't think it's about any unconstitutional positions, because constitutional positions are very clear. The BiH presidency appoints a candidate, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives confirms the candidate, most of the votes, as described in the Constitution. Confirming candidates at the House of Representatives, election results are presented, as most of them reflect the election results. From the moment the BiH presidency appoints to the moment when MPs raise their hands to confirm or disconfirm the appointed candidate, no one can deny MPs the right to take all the elements and all the reasons that contribute to their commitment. In the world, around the world, every day, the president of the state proposes a mandate, parliament does not accept and this is not some big tragedy, and it is likely that we will need to work rapidly to describe and determine the procedures, which will ensure that all these stages from appointments to confirmation are done in a harmonised and ultimately to achieve results. In addition to what has already been said, at yesterday's Bureau session, as a member of the College, I gave an assessment that the candidate appointed would not receive the required number of votes at the House of Representatives and that fact should be kept in mind. This was based on statements or announcements by at least seven parliamentary parties, which announced they would not support a candidate appointed by the BiH presidency. And this is one of the moments that he has defined and, among others, has defined members of the BiH presidency or individual members of the BiH presidency to finally make a decision. Therefore, MPs in this way and the Parliamentary Assembly have not lost anything to their dignity in this way. On the contrary, I ask you to bear in mind what the Constitution says about confirming the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5384	Thank you very much. We're going into further procedure, that is, this area for this meeting. In an invitation to the session, you are informed that before the start of work under the Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives will give the solemn oath to Snježana Savić, judge of the BiH Constitutional Court. The College has another proposal, which is that, as a previous question, we are verifying the parliamentary mandate of Mr Rijad Raščić, to whom the temporary election commission granted the mandate instead of Nedžad Branković. I hope 57 of you don't mind these suggestions, I call on Professor Dr. Snježana Savić to join in giving a solemn oath. I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5385	I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5386	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5387	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5388	That I would fully implement the Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5389	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5390	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5391	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5392	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5393	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5394	I congratulate you. I now ask the esteemed representatives to plead on the verification of the mandate to MP Rijad Raščić. So I ask you, I ask you all, who's in favour? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? It's unanimous, but let's put the voting procedure through. Who's against it? 58 Who's for RS, please? Who's against it? Thank you very much. How much is present? – Of the 27 MPs present, 24 voted in favour. By entities, 15 voted in favour of the Federation of BiH, from RS – 10 voted in favour, congratulating our candidate, if he is present. Unfortunately, he's not present. When it's in session, we'll have a solemn commitment. Here, I answer Mr Spahić's question. We are opening the 20th session, with the second item of the already adopted agenda. Ad.2. Proposed Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH predlagač: Pero Skopljak and Mirko Banjac. Since we have led the debate on this point in two directions, in my opinion, if you believe that this debate is concluded, which I personally believe, we can move on to the proposals, or I am reopening the discussion about this point. Who's calling?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5395	Ladies and gentlemen of the presidency, I have seen a positive trend in the work of our Kolegijum, which has managed for the first time in its term to meet with members of the BiH presidency and I would like to welcome it. This should probably be regulated by the business matter, which we were informed of by one of the members of the Kolegijum, who said that, given the negative experience and the positive from the candidate candidate for the BiH Council, a procedure relating to candidateship, verification and final approval of the term of office of mandate will be proposed. I think that the Rules of Procedure must absolutely be installed, provisions must be incorporated in the Rules of Procedure concerning the relations of the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency. This means practically that the practice of the past few weeks itself shows, in fact, that there is no architecture of the business relations of this legislative body towards the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency and that this structure, or if you want the architecture of those members, is business, does not commit anyone to anything. That's the first example. Therefore, until these precisely formulated views are obtained in relations between these three bodies, I do not believe that the legislative body that has the most important task of confirming, adopting, considering various resolutions, documents and laws can function normally in any version of the Rules of Procedure. The second principled remark is that, in fact, after this discussion that we are having on several occasions, we do not know what it is by two promoters, two MPs, accepted and rejected. The discussion at the last session was conducted practically vaguely, it was not known which way it was going. We were probably burdened by the fact that we had been expecting all day to adopt 17, 18, and 19 of these sessions. We have now held an interlocutor in which we have not established 59 agendas, but on the spot, on two key issues, on the confirmation of the terms of office of MPs and the confirmation of the Constitutional Court judge. Which is good that we did, because it is correct to put this home into office and to support the work of more efficient institutions, which have acquired the conditions to be established on the basis of these proposals relating to the Constitutional Court. If you look closely, none of these events, which we had in so-called. The interlocutors, who are not even established with their agenda, all smiled sweetly and agreed, like, don't joke with us, it's one vice president and what do you want. We have completed two basic acts concerning this congregation at the same time. One is the Constitutional Court and one is this home. This second example also says that there is essentially no procedure. The Rules of Procedure, which is respected, are right for BiH institutions, if we care about its strengthening, that transparently, precisely, in all stages, this Parliament, through its working bodies, commissions, verifications etc. until the decision is made, all procedures necessary. The third example, I have seen from practice that in the last few days there have been general anxiety in one part of the congregation's leadership, I will speak very transparently and precisely about this when it comes to certain areas of action in Parliament. Some have remembered in Parliament that we might also be able to perform some of the functions in this House, at the end of the term, it is very good and I welcome them and their intentions, but I think that we will be clear about this when we discuss staff issues and proposed solutions to change these different functions, which will be held by MPs in committees and bodies. In fact, it has been assumed that some people here in Parliament mean leadership, that what they say, what they decide and what they do, that they represent some kind of will, which in some ways they have not constructed, either through a parliamentary club, either through talks between MPs who do not have a club or in some other way. The situation in the BiH Parliament, in this House of Representatives, has changed from the ground and is not here in the Rules of Procedure to what happens when they fall apart, let's say, coalitions, when clubs fall apart, when MPs decide to act in accordance with their rights, based on the Constitution and on their mandate, nothing has been clarified at all. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure cannot simply treat it as an abstract matter that they will decide when it comes to the agenda. The Rules of Procedure must provide for situations concerning an institution called the House of Representatives, a relationship with institutions, state, system and all institutions with which they work. To disseminating this matter, I believe, there is only one way, and that is that the proposings of this Rules of Procedure would not be derivated from today's meeting, as well as the other points of the agenda, fine, as they promised at the last session, draw the line, as they would say, under the suggestions, remarks, proposals, amendments and views of MPs and come out with a clear attitude, from point to point, and say what their position is in relation to these issues. If they have such paper, written about which we can declare ourselves in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then, if there is, on the one hand, a Proposed Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, an opinion written in writing, on amendments or on suggestions, I am in favour of voting today. If there are no conditions to get a precise, point to point, answer to questions that we have asked on many occasions, and we have not received an answer at all, I will only take a symbolic question from the Commission on gender equality from which everything remains unclear. I would ask that, if we can approach, if there are no more candidates for discussion, to create a summary that will allow us to know what we are pleading about, about 60 of this Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure are one serious thing, and I don't want us to get out of this like we're done with the job, that's because it's an emergency and it's the best time to do it. I think that the proposings must be determined according to our proposals. We also need to get their attitude in writing. If he's negative, okay, we'll vote, if he's positive, too. If you have these conditions to provide us with this with the Sekretarijat, I ask you to allow us to do so during today, to vote finally on the Rules of Procedure, if you do not, then I ask that it be postponed for the next session to be scheduled, with papers that will be the answer to our demands.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5396	The Republic has a chairman, Mr. Mirko Banjac. I ask you that after so much debate, after so much persuasion...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5397	Dear Members of Parliament, I respect the need for people to speak, in the end, that's fine. But to speak behind this pay phone, you need arguments. Let's not use a pay phone here to harass those out of fact. You, gentlemen, have received one report in the last session, where it is decadently and literally says what it is, what the promoters have accepted and what it isn't, today you've got two. Having those who have not read or lost it, they should not use a pay phone for their own incompetence. Please read it, so if there's any objections, we can talk about them, but without arguments, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5398	I expected that, in fact, we had a very thorough discussion about the Rules of Procedure, that we had worked on it for days and months, and I expected that we could plead. But it is yours to plead here. Can I help you? Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5399	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling again, Mr. Banjac has now said that we have received a statement from the promoter of this proposal. I have to admit that all this has happened lightningly fast, so I'm not sure I've seen it in these 40 minutes, as far as we're in the O.R., but there's something that's, at least, strange about the proposings, and especially the chairman of this house. Namely, on the House of Speakers' proposal, the session was suspended last time, and because of the need to carry out further consultations on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure and after talks with the representatives of the Office of the High Representative, since we, when we request a break, have to explain why we asked for it and what the result is. We have interrupted the session here without being explained what the result of this interruption is and what is the result of the additional consultation of the Proposer of the Rules of Procedure, which, has he changed anywhere, is whether the promoters stay on the old proposal, or what is on the agenda. At the very least, we deserve an explanation by the motionor, an oral explanation of the session's interruption and consultation with the Office of the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5400	It's not a replica. It's an explanation. I mean, honourable Members of Parliament, I think it's quite enough for you to get document number 01-02-86/00 of 17 May this year, which says what happened after the break-up. I don't think there's any need to read what you got on the table. If there are any questions about this and the ambiguity, you ask, we will answer. The practice to read is already written, I don't think it's good and should be abandoned. You also received another paper on which two more amendments were adopted by the promoter and the third one you received at the last session. If they check your papers, you'll see that you have all three papers. If there's any misunderstanding about these papers, you ask. What we said, we thought, we wrote it and delivered it to you. Questions can be.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5401	Thank you very much. It's a bath Kadić. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5402	I agree with Mr. Banjac, it's all true what he said, but the date they sent us a statement is May 17th, it's today's date. We have a crucial statement on the Crucial Document, which is on the agenda, the Rules of Procedure, received about half an hour ago, together with 20 other amendments, papers, laws, etc. And I have to tell you that we haven't even been distracted that it was delivered to us in materials. In this respect, I really want this misunderstanding to be smoothed out, and no doubt it will take a certain period of time to settle what is said to be the case for all amendments to this matter and for the possible analysis of this statement by the legislator of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5403	Are you looking for a break, Mr. Kadić? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5404	Ladies and gentlemen, there's something called an axiom. Anyone who knows anything about natural science knows that axioms don't prove themselves. What we got in the last session and what we got today is really an axiom. I didn't mean to comment, but isn't it very well-intentioned that we had one signature at the last session, for one of the men, that at the second session, we have a signature for the opposite. You know, here, if I were to explain to axiom, that I, too, was behind this pay phone, before the break, convinced that we should put the president's election on the agenda, but then, in the break, from the close circles of the one who signed it last time to go to the session, I got the information that it wasn't behind it, and we wanted to see, really, if it was that kind of thing. A further comment on this is unnecessary and, please, let us save the honor of the MPs and move on to the next item of the agenda, and get this back in the process as it goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5405	You didn't get along. You have to make a deal, Branko, and you don't understand. Maybe he spoke one language and he spoke another. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5406	You asked for a half-hour break. I'm giving you half an hour's break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5407	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5408	Half an hour's break. According to my report, we have a quorum. [[PAUZA]] I think you could agree. I've got a report that you've already done that, so we're continuing the session. I suggest that after the debates have been held, we really move on to the concrete proposals that you have made, which you already have before you. So I ask the Secretariat to present to us how the proposals came, that is, which we adopted, which amendments we have partially adopted and which we have rejected. We're going to vote on the amendment. The secretary will read the amendments to you exactly, just as you have tolerated them. You will have a report that we have accepted and that we have partially accepted, that is, those we have not accepted, and then we will vote their future. We have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5409	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I read the amendments to Mrs. Ana Havel, which have not been adopted. Amendment I, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, respectively, changes and reads: “After the MPs make a statement, the House will elect one Srbin, one Bošnjak, one Hrvat for the chairman and vice president, with the presidency being rotated between these three elected persons. The order in which the presidents and vice-presidents of the presidency will be replaced will be set by draw, so that the chairman cannot be of the same constitutional people as the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Paragraph III of this Article shall be deleted. The MPs should now be made known.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5410	Who's in favor of a solution like this? Who's up for the amendment? Who's against the amendment? I have a report. It's not adopted. Of the 25 present – only 5 were for, against it was 14, therefore, the amendment, unfortunately, did not pass. 63 amandman ii, in Article 35, paragraph 2 is deleted. Find yourself the amendments you have in front of you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5412	I beg you, report, if you got in last session, to use it now. Would you like me to read the explanation of the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5413	They've got it in front of them. Who is for this proposed amendment? Who's against it? We're going after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it? Let's hold the vote, and then we'll have suggestions, suggestions and remarks. From the RS, who's in favour of this proposal you've heard?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5414	Amendment II to Mrs Havel reads: “Article 35 deletes paragraph II, i.e. paragraph 2. ” Explanation By limiting the possibility of one representative being a member of more than two committees, nothing can be achieved, but it can make it difficult or agree on the selection of members of the commission and may be contrary to the real need, in certain circumstances, finally, it is limiting the rights of MPs. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5415	We're continuing the vote. From RS, who's in? - Four votes. From the 26 - 12 present, it was in favor. From the Federation of BiH, 13 were for, RS 4 was for. So, there's one voice missing here, so this amendment is going to agree. Right? Amendment III in Article 36.1.b. The words "and to launch an initiative for amendments to the BiH Constitution" are deleted. An explanation of Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure has been found who can propose amendments to the BiH Constitution and that commission is mentioned there. It's about the Constitutional Commission. Besides, he's clumsyly formulated as an imperative.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5416	The suggestion is clear, I'd say, of a practical nature. I suggest that when the amendment is read and part of the article is read, it will be easier to follow. I don't know, 64 amendments to Article 36.1.b, in Article 36.1.b. It stands, and the amendment suggests that, well, it's the only suggestion, we won't lose much time, and I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5417	It's impossible here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5418	Please make sure you have the original text in front of you and compare the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5419	Indeed, everything is impossible. Amendment IV, member.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5420	Amendment number III Ana Havel, whom you have heard and I hope you understand. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? By entities, unfortunately, he didn't pass. He obviously didn't make it. Of the 26-4 present, it was against – 10, therefore, not even this amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5421	Amendment IV In Article 64(3), the words “and voting is repeated, in accordance with the provisions of Article 63.” are added at the end of the text. Explanation The proposed text of paragraph III of this Article is inaccurate. It is necessary to regulate how voting is done after the College's agreement, which was before it was considered that the agreed decision should not be voted at all, which would, in practice, mean that the decision was taken on the College and in fact it would be questionable whether at least one third of the representatives from the territory of each entity were behind such a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5422	Thank you very much. You heard the amendment. Who's in, asking everything? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? Thank you very much. To plead by entities, yes or no. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Who's from RS for? The results of the vote. Of the 27 present, 6 were for -4 it was against. The Federation of BiH 6 was in favour. From the RS, no one was in. Therefore, this amendment has not passed. Was counting okay? The amendment didn't go through. 65 Any objections to the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5423	The amendment to the apostle Havel has been accepted and there is no need to declare it. Amendment VI Behind Article 127 is added a new member and reads: “Representatives may ask questions concerning specific facts or situations and other addressees, which provide answers in writing.” The Rules of Procedure's proposal regulates asking questions only to the BiH Council of Ministers or to one of its members. This amendment regulates the asking of questions and other addressees.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5424	I think you understand. I'm asking, who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? The results of the vote. Of the 27 present, it was 17. From the Federation of BiH 12 is for – from RS 6 is for. Therefore, this amendment has been adopted. Please, gentlemen of the RS, who's in favour? Here, we're correcting for 7. I beg you, when you raise your hands, raise them freely, at least we have so much democracy that we can say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5425	Amendment VII. You in the amendment have an invitation to Article 128, paragraph 2, instead of the word ‘reservation’, the word ‘resolution’ is inserted. In essence, it is a member of 108, in which only these corrections should be carried out, meaning, instead of the word ‘reservation’, the words ‘resolution’ are put in the words ‘resolution’, only the wrong call for a member.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5426	If you feel that we do not have to plead on this, it is a technical mistake that will be corrected. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5427	We have amended MPs Suada Muminagić since 17.4.2000. 66 Amendment I in Article 11. The first position is changed and it is said, forgive me, the amendment has been accepted, I apologize, and it enters as an integral part of the text of the Rules of Procedure. Amendment II In Article 35, in paragraph 1, add under H. “The Commission for Gender Equality in BiH”. As proposed, a new Article 42a is added. In which you would define the next part of the commission's work. Should we read all this, since you've got the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5428	Who's in favour of this amendment? I have a notice that this amendment has been adopted. So I congratulate women.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5429	Ambassador Suad Muminagić with his 19.4.2000 amendments, Amendment I
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5430	Just please, the fate of this amendment, for the record, here, I've been warned. Twenty-four representatives of the 28 present voted in favour. The previous amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5431	So, these amendments, Mrs. Suada Muminagić, are all adopted and there is no need for a statement, these are three amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5432	They're going into the integral text. The amendments of MP Nikola Špirić, they are not, there are four amendments, the amendments are not supported by the promoters. I am reading Amendment 1 of the text of Article 4, paragraph 1. I suggest that it reads: “After the MPs make statements, the House will select one Srbin, one Bošnjak, and one Hrvat from among its members, who will perform the duties of the chairman, the first deputy chairman, and 67 of the second vice president of the dom. The choice of a Srbin requires that he be elected from one-third of the RS parliamentarians, and the election of one Bošnjak and Hrvat implies being elected from the two-thirds of the Federation of BiH's territory. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people, as the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers."
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5435	Amendment number II proposes a new text of Article 8. “The poslanik has the right to initiate adoption, amendment or addition of laws and other acts, as well as to use other procedures contained in this Rules of Procedure, and if he wants to initiate an amendment or addition to the BiH Constitution, he must provide support in writing to at least one-third of the members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. All three constituent peoples must enter one-third of the total number of MPs required to initiate the amendments to the Constitution.”
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5436	Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Of the 30 present – 13 is for – is against 16. Therefore, the amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5437	amandman III At the end of the second position of Article 18. I suggest that the words be put on a tight line and add: “in accordance with the electoral principle set out in Article 4, paragraph 1. of this Rules of Procedure. ”
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5438	Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's against the amendment? Of the 30 present, 9 voted against 14, therefore, the amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5439	Amendment IV suggests that Article 39 is deleted below, in accordance with the Foreign Debt Act, and I propose that paragraph 2 be deleted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5440	Thank you very much. You've been a little undisciplined. I hope you've heard and understood the amendment. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's up for the amendment? Who's against it? Thank you very much. Amendment number IV – present 31 MPs – against 12, therefore, for 10 – against 12, this amendment was not adopted either. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5441	Amendments by MP Ivo Divković, only one amendment has not been adopted, the other two have. Sorry, Amendment II and Amendment IV were adopted. Amendment I and Amendment III have not been adopted. Amendment I reads: In Article 19, the position of Mr should read: “To be in charge of initiating and coordinating interparliamentary co-operation”, it is the article 19, under which he was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5442	Who's up for that amendment? Who's against it? I'm asking an entity question. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 31 present, 17 voted against – 8. From the Federation of BiH, 13 for - from RS, 5 for. Therefore, this amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5443	Amendment III to Article 81 Delete attitude d. of that member. Amendment III.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5444	We repeat, but please discipline and peace.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5445	In Article 81, delete the position d. of that member. You have the report we delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5446	Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you very much. As of 31st, 6th was voted in favour – 12th vote against. Therefore, the amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5447	I am not sure now, I think that from Mrs Suada Muminagić we have adopted an amendment, which is related to Article 35, i.e. Article 42a, and this is about the amendment of the group of MPs of women in parliament, which reiterates the same amendment. Therefore, there is no need to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5448	Thank you very much, giving up the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5449	Ambassador Adnan Jahić has two amendments. Amendment I Article 15, paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: “The Club of Representatives will be formed by at least two MPs”. The current Rules of Procedure require three representatives for the club. The amendment from the Proposer has not been adopted, it should be made known.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5450	Who's for the proposed amendment, who's for, I ask? Who's against it? By entities, please. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it? From RS, who's in? Of the 31st present, 14 voted in favour – 13 against the vote. By entities, from the Federation of BiH, 12 were for? No one's against it. From the RS, two were in. This amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5451	I have no objection to the vote. I've used the phone booth a little bit, but I'm only lucky for one minute. I understand the need for representatives of the legislator of this Rules of Procedure to have the need to do so. discrimination between MPs and representatives, i.e. elected representatives in this House. The establishment of a minimum number for the establishment of a club, and the giving of rights, greater rights to representatives' clubs than to MPs, as individualally elected individuals, is the legalisation of discrimination in this Parliament, regardless of the number. Representative clubs, according to this basic proposal, have more rights than representatives as individual candidates. I believe that as a principle it is not 70 good, I warned it last time, and I believe that it is simply necessary to delete the provisions which discriminate or favour a group of three in relation to one MP, and there are such provisions in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5452	Thank you very much, it's normal to discuss this philosophically and legally, it was still a Roman right that we say is the only one that's perfect. So, we have this in mind, so we'll see, I don't think discrimination has occurred to anyone at all, I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5453	Amendment II The article in the 16th will be deleted. He will have the chairman and vice-president, it's about Members' clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5454	Who's in? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? By entities – from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS – who's in favour? Out of 29 MPs – 15 were against – 10 were against. From Federation of BiH 13 for, from RS 2 for. So this one wasn't adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5455	We have amendments to MP Adurahman Malkić. Amendment I wasn't adopted and I'm reading it. In Article 10, point 4, instead of saying: “The Commission for Administrative Affairs” that stands for “The Constitutional Legal Commission”.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5456	You understood the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5457	An explanation of Article 13, paragraph 2, has been regulated that this is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Legal Commission, as well as Article 36, point 1 is about suspending the functions of MPs and the rights of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5458	I think that's better. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5459	That amendment goes into integral text.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5460	So this is accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5461	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5462	Amendment II In Article 17 after the point, add the words "and the working bodies of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, i.e. the Commission", to the brackets. The amendment from the Proposer is not supported. The Commission is also demanding certain costs, according to the amendments' applicants.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5463	Would you care to state who's in favor of the amendment? Who's against the amendment? According to the entities, I ask, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Thank you very much. Of the 29 MPs present – 16 voted in favour – the vote was 6. From the Federation of BiH, 13 voted in favour – RS 3 voted in favour. Therefore, the amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5464	Amendment III, as stated in your report, is partially adopted. Only the words, second row, "and individuals" should be thrown out of the amendment, and then the full text of the amendment by MEP Malkić is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5465	Mr. Malkić, are you satisfied with this solution?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5466	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5467	We believe that the solution that we have proposed is better. We have respected your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5468	Amendment IV is supported and there is no need to make a statement. The amendment of MP Desanka Rađević is supported and there is no need for a statement. I don't have any more amendments. Amendment V of Ambassador Malkić is not supported. The amendment of the amendment to the MP Abdurahman Malkić reads: “In Article 63, point 2, behind the score, after number 2, the words “including those who have abstained or did not vote, and make quorum”. Reason On the proposal that votes for and against must give a quorum in the forest, which is not the case. The Proposer of the Rules of Procedure did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5469	Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Do you need it on the entities? Of the 29 present – 4 for – against 11, this amendment was not adopted either.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5470	Mrs Desanka Rađević's amendments were adopted and there is no need to read them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5471	Please, we'll read it one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5472	In Article 61, point 2, instead of the word ‘representative’, stands for the ‘representative club’. Explanation The Clubs of Representatives are looking for breaks for consultation, not individuals. The amendment is supported by the promoter and we didn't think it was necessary to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5473	All right, Mr. Kadić, I'd like to, in that debate we can get in, if you will, that could be interpreted... I believe this is what we have declared ourselves to be. It's my suggestion now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5474	The esteemed MPs, given that the amendments I made at the beginning were at the vote and since there was no vote of totality and by entities, I, too, ask you, given the importance of this matter, refer to this second amendment of mine, which speaks about how much a committee may be and since we have now increased by another commission, I ask you to repeat the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5475	Mrs. Havel, please explain your amendment and, if you agree, we will hold another vote. Here, I have a notice from my colleagues that we, as promoters, accept this amendment, goes into the integral text. Now, I ask you, since we have indeed made a statement about everything you wanted, or what we have noticed, I am now giving the integral text of the Rules of Procedure to the vote. Who is to accept the integrated text of the Rules of Procedure as we have here, along with the amendments that we have clearly included in the integral text? Who's in? Imagine, unanimously. Thank you very much. I now pronounce the Rules of Procedure adopted. Mrs. Muminagić has an objection or, don't let us go into debate again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5476	I don't, I want to thank my colleagues, and especially my colleagues for supporting the establishment of a Commission on Gender Equality in Parliament, and I want to assure you that we will really look after gender equality. So when our colleagues are in an unequal position, we will also protect their position. I expect that the composition of the commission will reflect Parliament's composition that it will not be just a woman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5477	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5478	I would like to say that in all ways in the work of the Rules of Procedure, in the past few months, I have tried to eliminate every one, even the smallest dose of what I have claimed, and I have called it very deliberately discrimination, and I must also be honest, so that the amendments, even the promoters themselves, have respected a lot. I voted, of course, for the draft Rules of Procedure, although some of my suggestions are not respected, counting firstly that it is not such a hard discrimination, which I purposely wanted to show to open up a different angle of observation in this Parliament, and on the other hand, in real work in Parliament, indeed, it will not feel the difference between the party that has 8 MPs in this Parliament and the one who has only one MP in Parliament, 74 because I know that one is responding to 30,000 citizens because it is so necessary for us to come to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5479	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić, that's how we'll do it, that's how we do it, after all. No discrimination, no support, thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. You've got the appointment of members of the working committees of the material. I suggest that it be done in the package, and clearly, here I am opening a debate on point 3. Please stick to what's written in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5480	You have received, of course, a proposal from the commission, the replacement of committee members, because some MPs stopped being MPs and thus stopped being members of the commission. There is one technical mistake, given that it is one three or four SDA MPs, the proposal to replace these MPs is also from the SDA, for the replacement of MPs from the SDA and the proposal is in front of the SDA. One technical intervention, and please bear in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5481	I would just like to say that all these amendments have been made to those MPs whose term of office has ceased in this House. They were replaced, in those places where Jadranko Prlić and Neven Tomić were present, by other MPs who were in front of the HDZ in this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5482	I think you'll understand these suggestions as well. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? I'm putting you to the vote in the package. I'm asking for your statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Of the 26 present – 25 voted in favour. Thus, this proposal has passed, or these people have been accepted. Thank you very much. We're moving to the final item of the agenda. 75 Ad.4. Answer the MPs' questions and questions What we have, it's what you have ahead of you, and you've got a lot of shit or nothing. What you have to ask, please. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5483	Dear fellow MPs, my question was addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and concerning, in the press, information that BiH's ambassador to the UN had been arrested in the United States and was released, calling for diplomatic immunity. I ask the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs whether this information is true and what it is, since, I would say, our ambassador to the UN is somehow responsible for this home and that we are responsible for the MPs as a home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5484	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5485	Since I didn't get an answer to the question I asked months ago, I want to ask the same question again. What the foreign ministry and other authorities in BiH are doing in agreement with BiH's embassies in one civilizational and minimal, if nothing else, to arrange for visa-taking in Sarajevo, since they are largely given in Sarajevo, in order to keep our citizens at least a minimum of dignity in several days, several hours of rain, snow, sun, and that question on another occasion, because it seems unacceptable to me not to give any answer. That's the first one. The second question, given that we have recently adopted the Rules of Procedure, has not yet come into force, has not been published in the Official Journal, but there is, we have accepted Mr Malkić's amendment, that Parliament, or the Commission, can submit initiatives and communicate with all BiH institutions. I would like to ask the OSCE in BiH as an election organiser in BiH. As far as I know, the OSCE has laid down a rule about so-called. minimum leave from the session of elected officials in parliament, from municipal to state level. Will the OSCE, on the basis of that rule, take the parliamentary term of office of lawmakers who, for a long time, do not attend the meetings of this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5486	Dear colleagues, before I ask the MP's question, I will only ask here once more and find out, first and ask, that in the ninth month of last year, at one of the sessions, regular sessions, I have asked two 76 questions, to this day I have never received an answer. The first question referred to a commission working on, or on an inter-entity line, i.e. when the territory of RS will be, according to the Dayton Agreement, the intended area of territory up to 49% on the one hand. My second question, which I asked at the time, was about Mr. Farand's jurisdiction for the Brcko municipality area, now the district, because in the meantime it was declared Brcko District, whether his responsibilities, whether they could extend beyond the area of the former Brcko municipality, is now even, I think, and that question is already groundless, but the fact that I asked that question in the ninth month of last year, and I never got an answer to those two questions, so here I am apostropheming it. The next question I ask is the following. When athletes from RS will be allowed to participate in official competitions, therefore, world, European, Balkan championships and other competitions under the auspices of official sports associations. Why am I asking this? As Secretary General... RS and once a top athlete, we missed from 5th to 7th. The European Championship in Athens. We failed to participate either us or our fellow athletes from, I don't know what to call it, but part of the BiH Federation athletes, in the order of the Croatian people, also happened to us at the European Championship which was held a few days ago in Patra, so... just for the simple reason that someone has reserved an exclusive right to since '92. It's the year to this day that leads to certain sports alliances. I, in that sense, appeal here, not only to ask the question, but to appeal to the chairman to resolve this matter urgently, or to possibly form a committee here to hold talks with the High Representative on this matter. There's a competition going on. Nothing's been done to this day. In this context, I'm just going to name and illustrate one fact. We of our Sports Minister get an answer to this question, therefore, Mr. Karalić, when the status of the football issue is resolved, therefore, at BiH level, this will resolve the issue of other sports organisations. I will only mention one fact here, which is that at least now, when it comes to BiH, the Football Federation, which is based in Sarajevo, controls only 27% of BiH territory, when it comes to the Football Union, but it has the exclusive right to appear in front of BiH on an international stage, which is absolutely unsustainable, given the basic principles of the World Football Organisation, in order for one country to perform on an international stage and for such a football alliance to be recognised, it must have control over the entire territory of internationally recognised countries. This is not the situation, obviously. We're still in one captured position and athletes can't go on the international stage. This issue is a priority over priorities, and in this context, I ask you, the chairman, to take the initiative to answer this question as soon as possible, or to form a committee to resolve this issue in the interest of all athletes at BiH level as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5487	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5488	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one protest and one question. The protest concerns that I did not get an answer to the foreign ministry's question. Are 77 criteria for which holidays are organised in DKPs around the world? Whether for entity or BiH, and on the occasion, it was all about organising some receptions for some holiday 1. March, which I really don't know is the holiday of BiH. There is also my question at this session, again addressed to the foreign ministry, perhaps also to the BiH presidency, and it refers to the Sachirbej's barbating, which, among other things, wrote the following in a letter to the foreign ministry, in the weekly ”. It's quoted here, under quotes, it should be believed that it was authentically extracted from his letter sent, I repeat again, to our Ministry of the Interior. I quote “The work I do, as well as the specific projects in which I am involved, provides some individuals with countless motives. I am afraid, in fact, of revealing who is behind this scheme.” My question is, what kind of business does the controversial Šaćirbej deal with, and what projects is he involved in, as a representative of BiH to the UN?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5489	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a single question from the papers, given that I am speculating that the media is trying to be objective about what they do in the domain of their own work with full responsibility. I have several questions from work and life that have no opportunity to come with their problems either to the media or to Parliament. I would first ask, as an MP, for information from the BiH Council of Ministers on implementation, as it is also our jurisdiction, our Framework Law on Privatisation in BiH. I think we need to have that information to deal with issues that we've opened before. It is the first request, and I would ask that it be forwarded to the competent ministry, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that we do not receive that information after the end of the summer. Secondly, I would like to ask one of the institutions, which would be obliged and MPs in the House of Representatives, to regularly inform about their work and the results of their knowledge, of the Statistics Agency, of this I warned almost a year ago, of the institutions in the Unis building, of which we have never received as MPs, of when we have been in office and of their activity, of documents called the report or the periodic publication of the Statistical Agency, which treats all of BiH and which provides information about the situation in society, in the economy and in all other movements. It is incomprehensible for me to bypass Parliament and MPs, when it comes to the knowledge of this agency, because they work according to the best standards, as far as I know, from what I've had the opportunity to see in libraries. I think it was correct that every MP, both this and the other home, has this information, that's another request. The third requirement is to get from the competent ministry, I guess it's now the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and I believe it will be soon, if we succeed in forming a Council of Ministers, the Human Rights Ministry, information on the protection of the rights of national minorities in BiH. BiH needs to be publicly, clearly, precisely saying it has regulated its obligations and responsibilities towards national minorities in its country, Rom and others. This is the third requirement I ask for to meet the corresponding ministry, which can include our Commission on Human Rights and other committees. The fourth thing I would like to say is that it would be important for me to congratulate the public and officially, after doing so, individually, different personalities, individuals, parties, 78 organisations, gentlemen working in the Olympic Committee, headed by Mr Bogičević and Mustafić, and who have ensured that in a serious partnership with the International Olympic Committee, there is a presentation of candidates for the Olympic team of BiH. Following this card, I would like to say that I deliberately reduced it to one ongoing protocol act by Parliament, because it is obvious that people working in good faith, both in the country and in the world, with international organisations can achieve a brilliant result. It has lasted four years and more, but it is a significant and good shift in BiH. In the end, about cultural institutions, so that they don't turn out to be underestimated and ignored by the media. The fifth, by cartoons alone, not by numbers: - there are cultural institutions in BiH, whose status has not been resolved in any way, are the Earth Museum of BiH, the BiH Archive, the National Library of BiH and others. I demand that the BiH Parliament be provided with information on the possibility of solving the accumulated problems of these institutions, which in themselves, as well as other cultural and historical and religious monuments, heritage as a whole, but also active museum institutions, research institutions, have in them, I would say to the resources in common, not only for the citizens of BiH and the peoples, but also for the whole world. It would be time for that problem to be on the agenda. Lastly, regarding the protection and names and actions of every man who signs his works of authorship. We've asked so many times to come up with a proposal or draft copyright law. This is where the request is simply not respected. We believe that this copyright law would allow the entire activity of human creation in BiH to be resolved in the right way. With regard to the media, I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that this is a Parliament that is completely non-transparent in its work and action and that this is a parliament whose work and action is simply erased from the means of public information, simply because there is somewhere quiet and I would say one infirmity of our own, Parliament itself, and other institutions to focus attention on what parliament would do. Namely, both this parliament and other institutions, both the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, I believe, must ensure, in line with the public's work, and the conditions and means for monitoring the work of this parliament in the whole of BiH. I think it's something that's blocking, in fact, the responsibility of MPs right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5490	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to renew my question, which I asked many months ago, to which I have never received an answer, to the competent ministry on the visa waiver for the countries of the Stability Pact and on the mitigation of the visa regime for the member states of the Council of Europe, whose door we are at. So I would like to add my questions to another point, which is an examination of the possibilities, i.e. that the ministries try to try to abolish the visa regime at least for BiH's student youth, and I don't think I need to explain how important it would be for BiH students to have the opportunity to travel around the world and to meet other cultures and democracy.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5491	My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH and OHR, and it refers to when in the Law on Privatisation of dwellings in the Federation of BiH, discrimination will be lifted in the purchase of dwellings, where refugees, returnees, and it concerns 99% of Srbin, have to spend at least two years in order to obtain the right to buy out their dwellings, which is not a condition for the dominant population? When will it be in line with the same law in RS?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5492	I give my word to the chairman, Mr. Halid Genjac, and I ask you to make your questions in writing once again, so that I hope you get quality answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5493	Dear colleagues and colleagues, given the importance of the Permanent Rules of Procedure for the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I believe that it is rare that any session had the importance of today's session, both in its content and in its decisions. I would like to point out to this occasion that a large number of MPs participated in the draft Rules of Procedure and that the atmosphere of tolerance, the atmosphere of respect for attitudes and mutual respect for MPs was met. I also want to share my opinion with my colleagues and colleagues from the College to thank OHR representatives and representatives of the PAR project, who participated, giving useful suggestions on the making of the Rules of Procedure and having the whole of this ambience, which followed the whole procedure of making the Rules of Procedure and the fact that we have been given a permanent Rules of Procedure, I believe that this is a hint that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with its new permanent rules of procedure, will present the atmosphere that has been delivered during the drafting of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-05-08-0.u5494	I join Halid's words and I say thank you all for your co-operation, and I also inform you that we do not have any information about a possible candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, therefore this session is over. I thank you again. You'll be notified of everything later. Thank you very much. The seat is finished at 13.50 a.m.
