ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u466	I am opening the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, for today's session, in addition to the delegates of the PSBiH House, members of the BiH Presidency, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PAR project and representatives of the public information funds were invited. Allow me, at the beginning of today's session, to welcome all present, invited guests, to welcome the invited delegates. Today's session is attended by 12 delegates; from the order of the Croatian people 4 delegates, from the order of the Bosniak people 4 delegates and from the order of the Serb people 4 delegates. A total of 12 delegates attend today's session. We realize that for today's session, we have a quorum and the session can be fully operational. For today's session, you received a call with the proposed agenda. Let me read that agenda. 1. Records of the 12th, 13th and 14th meetings of the House of Peoples; 2nd. Proposal for a Budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2000, with contribution to the budget for 2000; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2000; 4. Giving consent to the ratification (a) Bilateral Agreement between BiH and the Great Socialist People's Arab Arab Emirates on the establishment of a mixed committee; (b) Bilateral Agreement between BiH and the Great Socialist Arab Jamaica on Scientific, Technological and Cultural Co-operation; (d) Trade and Economic Relations Agreement between BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary; 2 e) Agreement on Economic, Technical and Scientific Cooperation between BiH and the Arab Republic of Egypt; (f) Loan Agreement of 12 March 1999 with 34,500,000 Swiss currency between BiH and the Government of Sweden; g) Convention on the Control of Transboundary Transport, Dangerous and Waste of 5th March 1999; I would like to propose this agenda for a statement. Any suggestions, additions and changes to the first agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u468	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I received today from the secretary of the Administrative Commission a decision on how to calculate salaries and other material rights of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs. Since there was no quorum in the Administrative Commission prior to this session, and the decision I received by the House of Representatives is not in line with the proposed Budget. I propose that, before we move to the work of today's session, we meet this Administrative Commission, to see what this decision does not agree with the Budget Proposal, or that, on the basis of this decision, we agree to the Budget so that at one of the next meetings of the Administrative Commission, we do not make a decision that cannot be in line with the Budget Proposal. I think that would be necessary, especially knowing that the Administrative Commission hasn't met in a long time, so let's continue maybe in 10 or 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u469	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Is there any further suggestions, additions and changes to the agenda? If there isn't, regarding this remark from Mr...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u470	I don't know if it's the jurisdiction of the Administrative Commission on what Mr Zorić was discussing. Did the Finance and Budget Committee meet, which is most important to me and what does it have in mind? I don't mind meeting the Administrative Commission and considering this budget, I don't mind personally, but I'd be more interested in whether the Budget and Finance Commission has been meeting for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u471	I thank Mr. Čampara. I would suggest, as part of Mr Zorić's remarks, and this intervention by Mr. Čampara. I suggest we make a statement on the proposed agenda. I respect Mr Zorić's intervention, and here is Mr Čampara's remark to take a break, so, after adoption and clarification of the agenda, let's see if that's the case, this Budget and Finance Commission or the Administrative Commission will meet, if that's what we can accept. 3 First, let's make a statement about the proposed agenda, then this proposal after a statement on the agenda, to take a break, as long as you say it takes, and then move on with the work. Who's on the agenda like this? There's no one to fight or to hold back. I understand 12 delegates voted in favour of the proposed agenda. The agenda was adopted unanimously. We don't have a problem with the abstentions. To immediately agree on this proposal, Mr Zorić's intervention, how much do you suggest a break, to meet one or the other commission, so that they can plead on this commission? Gentlemen, I would like to ask you, I suggest a 15-minute break, let the Finance and Budget Committee meet and the Administrative Commission and try to bring this matter together on this intervention. I would ask the president of one of these committees to just give us a comment on this break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u472	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the international community and information. The break doesn't have much to do with the adoption of the budget, it has some connections but not direct ones and it won't. We agreed on a different way to resolve the decision that was the subject of the break. When it comes to the Budget, the Finance and Budget Commission had its own session, it considered this material and proposed that they adopt, without any alternative. Otherwise, if we were to discuss the details and look at the essence, that budget is not even close to normal countries' budgets, but there's a lot of things that aren't normal here, so we weren't acting any different than this moment requires. In fact, let me just say that the item Budget for the BiH Presidency is bigger than the item for Parliament, I guess it says enough, but we also took into account all the circumstances as they are and that I would not continue to comment and give opportunities to those who can make good headlines, I propose on behalf of the Commission that this budget be adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u473	I thank Mr. Šoljić. There are no other objections.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u474	Respected Presidency, respected fellow delegates, respected guests, since we briefly held a session of the Finance and Budget Commission and that the commission was not in full composition, in order of the Serbian people there was not one member of the Commission, Mr Malić, I would like to present one of my own personal visions, my own personal remarks, as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission. I don't know, I guess that 4 of my position won't come across the House's support, given that this budget with amendments has already been adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, but I want to make my personal point and my personal opinion. I have an objection to this budget in the financing of the State Border Service. We know that the Law on the State Border Service was not at all at this home and that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH did not adopt it, the Law on the State Border Service, and that it was imposed, or declared by a high representative, that is, the international community and, behold, it appeared in the budget for the year 2000 for the financing of the Border Service of 6 million KM. However, I say again that this assembly has not passed the law, I propose that this item Funding of the State Border Service be deleted from the Budget, from financing from the Budget of BiH, and that the total income be reduced by 6 million, which is total expenditure, and proposed to representatives of the international community, i.e. the OHR, whoever imposed it and who declared it to fund this service.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u475	Gentlemen, we are now on our way out of the ordinary. It can be accepted as a debate. I would ask you, I accepted, in consultation with the members of the College, to do this as we did, regarding the break that followed from Mr Zorić's intervention. I suggest we get back to the agenda, since we've come to the agenda, so let's go in line, so when we get back to this agenda point, I think we'll have a chance to hear more about this observation by Mr. Pajić, or we'll approach the statement. Please, we're back on the agenda. Ad.1. Records from the 12th, 13th and 14th session of the House of Peoples in the material you received records from these sessions, I give to debate this minutes. We're starting from 12th, 13th and 14th sessions, so, here you go. Any objections to the 12th session record? Are we going to declare ourselves individually or in a package? 13th session. Any objections to the 13th session? There isn't. Any objections to the 14th-session record? There isn't. Gentlemen, let's accept the records. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm saying it like this. We have one delegate not present at the vote, so instead of 12, we now have 11 delegates. 5 The minutes of the 12th, 13th and 14th sessions were unanimously accepted. Ad.2. The proposal for the budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for 2000, with a contribution to the budget for 2000, I am giving this draft budget for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u476	Dear MPs - delegates, on behalf of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Presidency as an official proposal for the 2000 draft budget for the BiH institutions and for the financing of debt payments, this is a proposal that appeared the second time at home, for the first time, let's say, perhaps in the form of a draft, we have received some remarks, suggestions and amendments from MPs and they are embedded in the way that was possible and in the context of the financial resources that we have available, meaning, in relation to the previous version. I have to tell you that the total budget, as it is, was created in collaboration with the international community, primarily with the IMF, because they were set up, let's say, certain parameters within which we could move and only such a budget could pass. Its total increase compared to the previous year is, realistically, around 9%, however, the majority goes towards paying off this debt. The differences with the first proposal, i.e. the draft, are here and we have adopted certain remarks on the need to reduce financial amounts for individual users and to transfer these savings to other users. I must tell you that we have reduced the BiH Presidency's figure by 260,000 KM and the reduced costs foreseen for municipal services, PTT services and representation have also been reduced by the Council of Ministers of BiH by 78,000 for consumer material and material costs. The ministry of civil affairs has been reduced by 115,000 KM and the Ministry of Foreign Trade at the point of material costs, representation and other costs of 140,000. So the total savings that were possible, and in order to secure the normal functioning of these institutions again, we were able to save about 593,000 KM. Based on the suggestions both at the House of Representatives and earlier here, the increase was made for the BiH Parliament of 195,000 KM and that 100,000 increase for the paushals – personal incomes, and for the purchase of the necessary equipment for the functioning of Parliament was granted an increase of 95,000. The biggest increase is, in fact, this second, because in the case of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the amount of the Refugee Programme has been increased, and that is where we increased this item from 398,000. This is the proposal adopted by the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament, and I, on behalf of the Proposer and on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, ask that, at this point, I consider it the only possible, rational and realistic Budget to be operational.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u477	Thank you, Mr. Deputy. Is anyone else answering for a discussion on this agenda point? I'd like to ask the President of the Commission for a budget. Since we had one amendment on the Council of Representatives, we would have needed to make a statement on this amendment, so I would, however, ask Mr Šoljić for the Commission's position on this amendment, so on this agenda point. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Here Mr. Pajić intervened with this remark, his intervention is in the way of the proposal. I'd like to ask Mr. Pajić if we could consult a little more. This verbally, means whether to accept or to make Mr. Pajić a personal remark, and if it goes in the way of the proposal, then we would have to define it in another way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u478	There's no need for me to go out for a pay phone. Since the Finance and Budget Commission has not met under this proposal, this was the first opportunity I took part in, this is my personal remark.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u479	Then I'd suggest it this way. To conclude that it is Mr. Pajić's personal remark, it is, in this item. If there are no further debaters, I am giving this proposal to the Budget for a plea, with this amendment which is an integral part of this proposal. Who, for the Budget proposal, is BiH's BiH institution and international commitments for 2000, with the programme, a contribution to the budget for 2000, so how was adopted on the Representative Council? Who's against it? He Who Is Restraint — 1 / 1 I konstatuj this proposal has been voted 10 for and 1 abstention. The proposal has been accepted. Ad.3. The draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000, we also received material in this meeting. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u480	Dear MPs – delegates, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget at the House of Representatives, i.e. the proposal sent by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency was adopted with certain amendments, i.e. changes which are mostly more technical. They referred to Article 4, Article 10, Article 11, Article 19, and I think it was also an amendment to Article 31. On behalf of the promoter, then Minister Ašanin, so both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH have accepted all the amendments, with such 7 integrated amendments that have become an integral part of the text of the Budget Act, the House of Representatives adopted it. As for the delegates and representatives of the House of Peoples, we didn't have any amendments. I think, with these technical improvements that we've got, the text of the law is quite acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u481	Thank you very much. Is anyone still answering for a debate? If there is no one, I am giving a statement to the Bill on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for the year 2000 with the amendments adopted in the text that it was adopted on the Representative's Council. Who's up for a bill like this? Against? No abstentions. I find the bill passed with 11 votes. Ad.4. Giving consent to ratification a) of the Bilateral Agreement of BiH and the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamaica on Encouragement and Protection of Investments Shall we be in the package or individually? Is there any need for me to read all these agreements after they've been read at the beginning? There isn't. For a stenogram, there's no need to read it, because it was read once. Is anyone answering for a discussion on this agenda item and these agreements?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u482	Fellow delegates, I again have a comment on this material, that is, all these proposals for bilateral agreements that I received in the material for the simple reason that I did not receive them in Serbian and in the letter on which it was to be written. I appreciate and believe that all delegates of the materials they receive should receive in their own language and in their letter. Therefore, since these materials I have received are not such, I cannot support them, or vote, until I receive them in the language and letter of the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u483	I thank Mr. Pajić. I think it's a finding from earlier, from our previous sessions, as far as laws and letters are concerned, so when it comes to delegates, or MPs, this is just Mr. Pajić's repeated intervention. As I recall, there were such interventions at some previous sessions, so good. Here are the representatives, members of the Joint Service, so, gentlemen, you heard. If you have an answer to this. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u484	I'd just like to say that we didn't get all three languages from the promoters, and that's a big problem for us. We keep insisting on getting materials in all three languages. We are, indeed, neither technically nor in the people qualified to do so in time, that we can do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u485	I can take Mr. Jadranka's intervention as a request for Mr. Pajić to accept this, as one reason and justification, a real reason. I would like to point out, if anyone else would like to report for this discussion, in preparation for this session today, at the College, we have agreed, because we have been asked that these agreements go to this session today and the meeting of the House of Peoples even though they have not passed the debate procedure at the Representative's Council. Simply because of this application and simply within the framework of this application, that these agreements have been standing for a long time and waiting for order on both the House of People and the Representative Council, since we have information that it is scheduled to continue the meeting of the Representative Council on which these agreements should appear, we have accepted that we put this on the agenda today and that we are having a debate on this. So it's a little unusual. Is anyone else answering about this? If there is no, please, so as agreed, please let us be clear on these agreements as stated in the agenda. Who's to verify all these agreements? Thank you. Who's against it? uzdržati — 1.. I konstatovati that all the agreements, as mentioned and proposed in the agenda, are accepted by 10 votes in favour and 1 vote in abstention. Six. Any delegate questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u486	Ladies and gentlemen, I will greet you all. Today we have accepted materials that are not processed at the House of Representatives, we have done this several times in previous sessions, and that is good, I welcome it, and I think that this is a way of working on issues that we can process without the House of Representatives, that we can have the initiative and that we can work equally with the House of Representatives, and that we do not have to wait for much that has been blocked in the House of Representatives so far, because of the inability for members of the Colleges to create consensus on the agenda and to come to their agenda, where we would also have put everything that has arrived so far, and what has been under the Work Programme of the Assembly, i.e. both homes and what has been in the Ministerial Work Programme, which we have also considered, and also adopted a certain programme of work of both the House of BiH. 9 Therefore, I would give the initiative to put this home, this college, in the next session, into an analysis of the work done so far, what we have done about our work programme, to see the laws that have been unprocessed for 4-5 months and that the laws that have been declared by OHR, what is the willingness to put them back into consideration. Then the laws delivered by MPs or other promoters, authorised promoters, and simply take the initiative and responsibility of working in this house against the adopted Work Programme. The fact is that there are certain issues that cannot be agreed at the House of Representatives. We have so far had a very easy course of negotiations at the College and I think we can improve the work of this house, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-30-0.u487	I thank Mr Žigić, personally as far as I'm concerned, I think that the suggestion is in place and I just want to point out that only before this session personally had the opportunity to contact the gentlemen and the members of the Secretariat where we agreed that, practically, and prepare this kind of material, as proposed by Mr Žigić, so that we would just do one analysis of the work so far, in order to analyse, that means the laws that were in the procedure, were not fully passed by the parliamentary procedure, were not adopted and in order to make an analysis of further commitments when it comes to certain laws that were proposed in the planned Work Programme for 1999, and, in practice, were not even on the agenda. So, I fully support this proposal, I think we should do it. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? I'm finishing the 15th session, thank you, gentlemen. The seat is closed at 3:30.
