ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4833	Gentlemen, we've respected the academic quarter, trying to keep the sessions both quality and correct and true, which I'm really going to do. I'm opening the 18th session and I suggest playing the Bosnian Herzegovina anthem. I'm asking the secretariat to tell us the number of present. Dear MPs, in addition to the MPs, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN mission, representatives of the FAR programme, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH, are also clearly invited representatives of the public statement we welcome here, along with all of our guests. Dear gentlemen, I am reporting to you that so far from the Federation of BiH there are 15 MPs, from RS 2 MPs. They declared their absence, i.e. Ivo Mijačević, Safet Oručević for health reasons, Munira Karić for maternity leave, Ljubomir Zovko and Sejfudin Tokić, for official obligations. With the present people we have here, according to the data obtained from the Secretariat, we have no conditions, no quorum to maintain this session. By the way, we've also received one notice from the RS gentlemen, which reads. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Serbian Nationality MPs in the PSBiH House of Representatives have announced that they cannot come to the House session until the security aspect of their stay in the territory of the Federation of BiH has been clarified, following a statement by the chairman of the BiH presidency and the president of the SDA, Mr Alija Izetbegović, published in the daily Avaz list since 4.3.2000. This, unfortunately, I have to realize that, here, we haven't had, in my debut, the luck to hold this planned 18th session and, unfortunately, I have to extend that session. On the next session date, you will be notified in good time. This, unfortunately, I believe this session is over. The seat is closed at 12.20 hours. Gentlemen, we continue with the 18th session and, before the agenda, or voting, here, I should have done the solemn oath of Mr. Kulović, for whom I now have the information that he did not come, so there was a little break, I apologize. Then we continue the session. There are exactly 22 MPs present, which is the quorum. The meeting, in addition to the MPs, was invited by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, co-chairs and presidents and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representative of the FAR project, representative of the US Political Department in BiH. They are also present at the session, which, like our guests, I warmly welcome, and representatives of public information funds. We received an apology for not being present at this session from Mr. Mijačević, Mrs. Munira Karić and Mr. Tarik Čaršimamović and Ivo Lozančić. Dear gentlemen, as I said, we have a quorum, we have a proposed agenda, which, unfortunately, we couldn't agree on an extended college, because we didn't have an extended college quorum, so I'm putting this proposed agenda to the vote, or I'm opening a discussion on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4835	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, when it comes to the agenda, I would suggest, in any case, that the first item of the agenda be included in the agenda, namely the point which would refer to the conclusion of Mr Alija Izetbegović's statement, from 3.3.2000, which, in one of the most inappropriate ways, identified them, among other things, and here most of the MPs in the PSBiH Council, calling them, in the most ugly sense, the Chetniks and Ustashas, by calling them those people who raised their hands against the adoption of the Law on Border Service, the functioning of state institutions, the unique passport, the single currency, etc. In this context, I ask, in any case, given the exceptional, of certain measurement circles, a mild reaction to such statements, which, in any case, do not contribute to international reconciliation, first of all, in BiH, that MPs in one conclusion, in any case, or one of their conclusions, of a clause regarding one such statement, so, the person who shares other labels in BiH, and we all know that this person has been one of the main generators for the international war that has been waged since '92. '95. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4836	Please, Your Honor, is your suggestion at which point of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4837	To be classified as the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4838	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4839	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Skopljak, I want you to successfully lead parliament to the election of a new parliament in BiH. As far as I know and as much as I feel, this Parliament should not be extended beyond October and should, in any case, ensure that we have elections in October of the month. On the occasion of the interruption of the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I, as president of the GDS BiH and as president of the LGK BiH, told and sent a letter, especially to all the political parties that make up the BiH Parliament and the co-workers of one and the other home of the BiH Parliament, and I wrote the following. Due to the lack of 25 MPs from all parts of BiH, I am convinced, as I am today, due to the absence of a significant number of MPs, the functioning of the BiH Parliament and the adoption of the Law on the Council of Ministers, an institution without which no normal nor Dayton BiH can function. Today, BiH is the only country in the UN member world that has no Council of Ministers, which does not have any kind of government. I have an obligation to, as an MP, say that it is simply unacceptable for BiH. Working on late information anyway, the BiH Presidency, at the request I made in December, seems to me, about the realisation of BiH's commitments to the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, we have been brought into a situation to discuss this information afterwards, practically, a whole cycle of round tables and desks on this topic. We do not, in fact, have, essentially, information on what projects BiH will come up with at the end of the month, and how it will go before a conference that will establish a project partnership, rather than a donor conference, as it has repeatedly tried to present itself in the media. Since BiH does not have any particularly significant projects that have received a wider verification, whether it is about experts in the government, whether it is about this Parliament, when I talk about parliament, then we can bear witness that even representatives of bh. The diplomats, who chair the desks, who participate in working groups, say that it is inaccessiblely poorly prepared...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4840	Mr Spahić, according to my colleagues' consultations and my personal question regarding the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4841	It seems quite clear to me that what we had on the agenda, and these are the conditions for joining the Council of Europe, is not possible to develop in this way in parliament. That is why I felt that the behaviour of a number of fellow Members and representatives of political parties shows that everything here is wanted to be subordinated to local elections, as shown by these lower-level parliaments, conditionally said, at an appropriate level, for example, local, entity, cantonal and therefore I propose the following in relation to the agenda. To make it clear to the citizens of BiH, we got, at least I got, I hope all parties got from Mr. Kurtović Mirsad, after 6-7 months, for the first time on our request.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4842	I don't think this is the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4843	Yes, I'll say for the agenda point, explain the proposal for the agenda point. Mr Kurtović delivered a draft economic strategy and social policy at BiH level, which is an explicit written request from these two homes, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. For the first time, I have seen, as an MP, since I've been here, that a minister wrote something about economic policy and social policy in BiH. I got that document, if you didn't get it, I'd like it multiplied for you today. It has been said that when Mr Kurtović delivers the document, an emergency session of both homes will be scheduled and that we will discuss it and that it is a priority, it is the first thing I ask to put on the agenda. The second thing, it was said, that on the time the BiH presidency delivered the information, the first point, would also be at the January session, and now it is the end of March, there will be a debate on the Stability Pact. Neither of these two obligations can be skipped by this parliament and nothing is more important than these two things because they assume our expert teams' talks on joining the Council of Europe and the links to what concerns the EU Special Relations Declaration. In addition, if we had a correct relationship with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over a period of time with the Resolution on European Integration and the Stability Pact, it is not right not to put it on the agenda today. My proposal is official. That the agenda item of the Stability Pact, information from the BiH presidency, with members of the BiH presidency present, should I underline the presence of members of the BiH presidency on the agenda. Secondly, to be an extraordinary session today and to stay at the session as previously agreed on by economic and social policy. It's something that has to tie us up. These are two points that directly say, in the next item of the agenda, it is the admission to the Council of Europe. What we're doing right now, it's a simple stretch and a waste of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4844	Please, the discussion is on the agenda, come on, say, that point is wrong, we want another one, and we suggest one that's more correct. I'm asking you to keep this discussion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4845	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and distinguished guests, I will, at the very beginning, welcome Mr. Miodrag Deretić's initiative to discuss the BiH Presidency's statement by Mr. Alija Izetbegović, not because I am convinced that our statement will change Mr. Alija Izetbegović's position or opinion, but because we may be convinced that there are, and I am convinced that there are other political options at the level of the Federation of BiH and that a large number of BiH citizens do not share the opinion of Mr. Alija Izetbegović, this would be a hope that a democratic tolerance dialogue on all issues concerning BiH and the fate of BiH, as internationally recognised states, so, the fates of BiH, the entities of the RS and the Federation of BiH. The second point, behind the one I propose, is, and I will ask, of course, as an MP to give me the leadership of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Parliamentary Council to respond to the fate of Mr Ibrahim Đedović, who had been sitting in these parliamentary benches for a year and two months, because we did not take away his parliamentary immunity. This is primarily driven by the parliamentary duty, because we have sworn to protect the law and the BiH Constitution, so Ibrahim Đedović, an ambassador from the party led and represented by Fikret Avdić, does not participate in the work of parliament for a year and two months, and none of the MPs, except that I have asked a parliamentary question twice, and the leadership has not answered what is happening with the MP. That's another question I'm running for. The third question, to move the agenda, to become the fifth item of the agenda behind these agreed points, to formulate the agenda point, to analyse the current work of the Independent Media Commission for BiH, as well as the conditions for shutting it down. I'll give you an explanation. An independent press commission was established on 11 June 1998, based on the decision of the High Representative, at the time of Mr Karlos Vestendorp. The Independent Media Commission was established on the basis of the Bonn Declaration, as the interim Commission for Independent Media and License Standards, whose exclusive mandate was distributed by the media frequency. The media, under the Dayton Agreement, are nowhere intended as BiH's jurisdiction, which means that they are in the absolute jurisdiction of entities, and telecommunications, where the issue of media frequencies falls, is one of BiH's common functions. Since the Law on Telecommunications of BiH, which has already been adopted...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4846	Mr. Špirić, please give along with your suggestions that you have already made quite clear what you want, because don't ask any parliamentary questions...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4847	I'll tell you now. I respect the debate, I explain why I propose this item of the agenda, please be patient to explain the point of that name.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4848	Okay, but you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4849	I can't run out of time to suggest agenda points. What's the agenda point if the MP doesn't explain it, then he loses the sense of proposing agenda points. I'll tell you at the end and what I'm looking for. I have to explain that I would be convincing to the other fellow Members who, with their statement, will plead for or against that point. As the deadline for the withdrawal of the Independent Media Commission was estimated on June 30th this year, with some of the functions of the Independent Media Commission to move on to entity commissions for media and other bodies in entities. In preparation for the Bona Conference, it was not only about entities, but even about the cantonal press commissions. The media commission, as it had been so far, had absolutely unclear status, for several reasons. After the signing of the Decision establishing the Independent Commission for Media, the Code of Conduct of Electronic Media and the Rules on the Independent Commission for Media, by the High Representative, the Independent Commission for Media itself passed regulations, regulations, and sanctions without anyone else's, was completely unlimited. In fact, an independent press commission acted as a classic authority of the administration, which, in doing so, writes to itself both regulations and enforces sanctions. Since the media is in the jurisdiction of the entity, it is necessary that the competent authorities of the entity adopt appropriate documents on all cases relating to the Independent Media Commission. Today, the Independent Media Commission, issuing a permit, is asking RS radio and television stations to respect a statement recognising the Independent Media Commission as the highest authority outside all norms. Thus, the Independent Commission for Media behaves beyond any democratic control by parliament and other bodies, an authority for itself, uncontrollable or not controlled by anyone. An independent press commission should take steps to establish an entity media commission, whose task is to deal with the electronic media programme, and the frequencies would be resolved in accordance with the adopted Telecommunications Act adopted here. In the future telecommunications agency, it should be ensured that half of the professional employees are from RS, etc., because in such a way this commission is financed, and I want to tell you that the heads of the commission have a salary of 30 marks a month, so the question is who, and in any way, 30 thousand marks, and the way is set out is whether BiH is also in charge of its entities to finance such a press commission. I am therefore asking that we open the debate and see if the conditions for shutting down the Independent Media Commission have been met, since we are entering a new democratic time, in a pre-election campaign and all that is pressuring and all the parties and all the citizens in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4850	Thank you very much. I've come up with a few points here that you suggested here, so we'll get to the bottom of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4851	Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues, you know that the compliance of the BiH Council of Ministers Act with the BiH Constitution is still an open issue. You are also aware that at one of the PSBiH House of Representatives meetings, after interpreting the voting procedure, we have found that the proposal by the MPs Mr Rakić received the necessary majority at the PSBiH House of Representatives and that it was necessary for the procedure to be completed at the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. Until the procedure ended at the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH, the attitude was to leave all other proposals and wait. We have made certain efforts to reach a compromise and finally resolve the issue at the meeting of the PSBiH People's House. Unfortunately, no compromise was adopted at yesterday's meeting of the People's House, which was offered and we are not a question, an open issue by the BiH Council of Ministers has been resolved. Since this is the case, given the importance of this issue and the urgency I would say, I would suggest that the first item of the agenda be the consideration and adoption of all proposals of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law or amendments to the Council's laws that have arrived on time and time, which have met and implemented the necessary procedure for considering at the PSBiH House of Representatives, because I do not see obstacles to putting it on the agenda. I would like to remind you that the BiH Presidency submitted a proposal on 9 February this year, before I, as an MP, submitted a proposal and sent an MP to Mrs Ana Havel and the SDP Parliament Club. I suggest that all these proposals be the first item of the agenda, possibly unless one of the MPs withdraws his proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4852	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4853	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you one question. It's about the agenda, of course. I know we have a quorum, but I also see here now that one member of the SDA has come, and before that, only Mr. Genjac was in front of the SDA. I'd like to ask a question, I'm guessing Mr. Genjac knows what this is about, to let us know what it's about. If this parliament is going to work, I think that without the party's representatives it should not work or establish the agenda. I suggest we see what this is all about, so we can eventually wait for the delegates, or representatives, to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4854	Thank you very much, Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4855	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for all the opportunities for this session today, as it has begun, to be a good pre-election event, but I ask that we leave it, however, for our scheduled pre-election meetings, and that we really view this as the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In this regard, the key issue for me, at this point, is the issue of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, i.e. the absence of the legal and constitutional government of BiH, the absence of the Law on the Council of Ministers and the absence of the BiH Council of Ministers, as the BiH government, which I consider to be the most difficult blow to BiH, for which we are responsible in this House of Representatives. That is why I consider it an absolute priority in determining the agenda. In this regard, in order not to turn the draft agenda into an infinite series of new initiatives, I believe that the chairman of this House, immediately after these first discussions, should take a break, call on the College, whether the College of Three Members or the Enlargement College with party representatives and try to reach the agenda. I insist, as an MP in this House, that the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers, in all the versions that we have, with the possibility of coming to a compromise proposal, be the first item of the agenda at today's session, and that all the other points of the agenda be later, and that we have heard, possibly, about which we agree, and in this respect, I find it unclear for me that the chairman's statement that the College had no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4856	An extended college.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4857	The extended college does not determine the draft agenda. The draft agenda is determined by the College of this House, and there are three people sitting in that College that I see here. Therefore, since the draft agenda is determined by the College, and an extended College can only help to determine the agenda and now I see that there are conditions that exist in the full composition and the College in the extended composition, I believe that you have reason to give a break and to propose a agenda that could be accepted at this home, and without further, in my opinion, often and unnecessary debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4858	Chairman Mirko Banjac has an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4859	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say this to the public for the truth. I accept Mr. Kadić and Mr. Genjac's finding that the blow to BiH is the passing of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, that it is a blow to BiH's functioning. But, gentlemen, I want your attention on what's been going on. The House of Representatives passed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the law was yesterday at the House of Peoples. On the initial text of the proposal, amendments were made by Bosniak MPs, two amendments you have before you, if not here, then at the previous session, both Serbian and Croatian MPs accepted the intervention. There was a further agreement that there were still some unresolved problems and a compromise solution was followed. And this compromise proposal was agreed with both Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak MPs and delegates in the House of Peoples yesterday at the House of Peoples, and the third amendment by Bosniak delegates appeared and something happened that I want the gentlemen of international organisations to hear clearly, to write this down and consider. This third amendment, proposed by Mr Avdo Čampara, and I have them here, here they are, accepted, you can think of what absurdity, representatives of the Croatian and Serbian people, and did not accept the representatives of the promoters. Here in today's daily Avaz, it is about the deception of the BiH public. Here's evidence with Mr. Čampara's signature that it's not exactly what it says here. Why and with what purpose are the public being deceived. So who's the one blocking the work of the BiH Council of Ministers? I'm asking everyone a question based on what I'm presenting to the public here. I don't see any reason why we're constantly accepting additional conditions for the adoption of laws by those who won't do anything. They're literally not going to do anything, and now the initiatives are coming up for some new reconciliations. Who's getting this, gentlemen, and why? I would like to say in full responsibility that here I want to show that the Council of Ministers of BiH and some other institutions are not functioning and I cannot function in order to achieve other close-minded interests and that in this obstruction, I am responsibly arguing, no political party, no MP from the RS participates, and I can say responsibly that I have noticed that no Croatian parties do so, because yesterday at the House of Peoples have shown who did not want to vote in favour of the Law. What do you want now? Gentlemen, it is to come to a law that only one party or one group of parties wants, while others do not. Please, who has the right to do that? How long are we gonna be like this? Last night, there was an insert on TV, which was startling me, and I personally heard it with my distinguished colleague, Skopljak, who was sitting at that meeting, Mr. Genjac, when the deputy chairman of the People's House said in the order of the Bosniak people, "We will not accept anything where there is parity and consensus." I, gentlemen, say, this is a very serious, difficult, unacceptable statement that can have very serious consequences. What do you want? Can we talk now, ask all the audiences and the public about majorization? Will this be allowed to happen? Before accepting any proposal on the Council of Ministers of BiH, a new situation should be clarified, which is programmed not to happen, that nothing should be adopted, that it should be done, whether it is now pre-election marketing or something else, may be decided on the basis of the arguments responsible, and this parliament is also responsible, i.e. the PSBiH House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4860	Is it a replica or a debate? Are you satisfied now?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4861	I, Mr. Chairman, apologized, immediately responded to the replica after the discussion of my esteemed colleague Kadić, but you did not obviously notice me, and I did not want to, but when Mr. Banjac came out to insist on me coming out. I would not agree only in the part of the discussion with Mr Banjac, after my proposal at the beginning of this session, since I suggested that the agenda be extended, so in this context and the proposals that went, besides this pay phone, to serve and to serve as some kind of, as a pay phone for the election campaign, etc. I think it is very serious issues that deserve this Representative Council to really take its stand, given that certain statements came from the most responsible people in BiH, who, through their envoys or, on the other hand, transmit so lightly the parole, in terms of multiethnicity, co-existence, international tolerance, etc. This is what I suggested, for the simple reason that I want, in addition to this discussion that Mr. Banjac now had here, that international community representatives also see that the truth has another side of the medal, that the truth is not only what was presented to the public in '92. the year, unfortunately, in this context nothing important changes, on the one hand. On the other hand, I would not agree with Mr Kadić, when he talks in his discussion about the Council of Ministers of BiH, in the context of the BiH Council of Ministers, also mentions the government's term. When this law, i.e. the bill of law, by the way, I, as an MP, gave my opinion on it and I will vote as I voted, on the one hand. On the other hand, I don't think this is a burning question that we need to discuss today. The BiH Council of Ministers has not been functioning since the 12th month or since it was established, as it was established, before the previous elections. For me, the key and personal question today is the central question is the Electoral Law. Two blueprints we have ahead of us. The first draft is the draft of the SDP and HDZ electoral law, which is what we must do today, and in that sense, Mr. Chairman, please put it on the agenda, first of all, to vote on proposals to supplement the agenda, and then to move on to work afterwards. I'm afraid this discussion, which we have so far, is not going to put us in a good position to do today's work for which we met.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4862	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree that we really round the agenda, if possible, and worse under our feet, that is, if this country alone in the world doesn't have its own government, then, indeed, I don't know what we serve as Parliament. Please, Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4863	My replica is going to be pretty short. It seems to me that we all agree that it is unnecessarily necessary to continue the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not to get out of the unresolved situation regarding the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. after its adoption, elections, not by filling the members of the BiH Council of Ministers, or by electing new members of the BiH Council of Ministers. We cannot afford the luxury of working in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as if nothing was happening and as if we had a Council of Ministers of BiH. That's why I plead, and I think it's a big responsibility, and after this additional information, Mr. Banjac, no matter what the information is from another home, but it's important to us. It is a great responsibility of the chairman of this House and the College to seek a solution at the moment, regarding the situation in the House of Peoples and the interest of BiH that the Council of Ministers and the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH have, and that is in the interest of this Parliament, that it must work in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4864	I have an intervention. We passed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, this House adopted, just to say so. The other thing, just to tell Mr. Deretić, I didn't think of your conclusion, first of all, you know that I supported it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4865	Rakić, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4866	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have volunteered to replicate to Mr. Kadić, but enough has been said by Mr. Banjac. However, I think it is essential to put it as a point of the agenda, any, the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, unless we agree first on what we want. Therefore, I propose that we sit down in some source today and see if we agree on the concept and what we want, because it is certainly unacceptable that we do not have the Council of Ministers of BiH and that we are working in these conditions and that is certainly one of the urgent issues for this assembly, for the presidency of this assembly. I think it has to be done today, so Tama took a break, and in some composition, let me say, discussed what we can get out of this moment and what we want. To go this way and keep someone finding themselves, to obstruct, we'll never get to the law. Another question I wanted to tell you about. I have to explain. For the second time in my life, I didn't go to this congregation. I try every time to find time to attend the congregation, and I personally asked that this congregation be postponed from the last time, unfortunately, it is not delayed. You held the congregation. You've established the quorum and seen that the congregation cannot be maintained. I must say that, as an MP, when I came to this Parliament, I felt that together with all of you I would create coherent relations, conditions for reconciliation of the people, that we would pass laws, which are in the spirit of the BiH Constitution, in the spirit of democratic principles, the Charter of the UN, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4867	Please, if it's a replica, I think it's time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4868	I'm giving an explanation why I wasn't at the assembly last time, I said in part two. If you'll let me, if you won't, I'll leave.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4869	You don't have to leave, you just circle up and make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4870	I'm going to leave, but I'm going to ask you to call me back.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4871	Sure, no problem. From what I know, Mr. Dokić has a replica or a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4872	We can agree not to give replicas anymore, but to discuss what. Anyway, I think it's very good and very important that we clear one thing up. In this case, in BiH, the emperor is a go. No government, no Council of Ministers, no Council of Ministers. So in BiH, no one is currently in full capacity as prime minister, as prime minister, co-chairing any function representing the Council of Ministers of BiH, to attend an international meeting. The last time we saw it was in Budapest. Secondly, I've been quite specific. I don't think we should tell a big story today. We, if we want to have the same Council of Ministers, the international community and we must, since we are partners by 2002 in this BiH, underline it 100 times, partners with the same rights and know who the final interpreter is. We, as the Council of Ministers, must have the mandater and expect a programme from that council. The minimum programme is what has been done about economic policy and social and European integration, it is minimal. Therefore, the prime minister must also have time to negotiate with the government, with whom he will enter into what talks, what negotiations. I cannot understand that someone can talk quietly about other things today except the BiH Council of Ministers. I'd suggest, and we've been warned of that, I'm asking for a session to be interrupted. We can discuss to some extent, then interrupt the session, since we are responsible people. The people's home didn't do their part of the job. We have a bill of law adopted here, but we have no law adopted in the House of Peoples. We must agree and find a solution and say that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we too must create conditions to talk seriously. The home of the people has done one thing, the other. We now have to sit down, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, the College, clear these things up and simply come into a position, legitimately compared to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliament, both homes of the peoples. I didn't ask for an extraordinary session by heart. I know and underline it, until the House of Representatives sits and the House of Peoples together and until the debate on the Council of Ministers ends it and until they read and adopt the basics or draft economic programme, the social programme and these European integrations, their own decisions, their own opinions, these two homes, there is no improvement in this country. We can replicate as much as you want, but this is turning into an insolence on our part towards the citizens of BiH, because we act like nothing happened. You should say the sentence I started. The Car is naked. Find a business term, gentlemen, from the College, stop the sessions, schedule a college with your colleagues from the House of Nations, come to a solution that the BiH Presidency can be unblocked, to propose a mandate. Then there's a legal remedy. If there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, it knows what is technically necessary for parliament. Then parliament can also disband and call general elections in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4873	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić. Please, at least one consensus has, as far as the three of us are concerned, that after the debate on the agenda, which I don't know how long it's gonna be like this, if it's like this. I ask you once again to make it as short as possible, so let's sit in an extended college and try to direct this meeting, because there's really no end to it. Personally, I am telling you, I would like to finally deal with urgent issues, which is the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which really makes no sense to extend anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4874	Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I think there's been a change of thesis here. The BiH Council of Ministers is only a reflection of the general situation, not the cause of this situation. How to form a new council of ministers, it says in Dayton loud and clear, and there they don't need any interpretation. As for the current situation, the BiH Council of Ministers Act says so. If the government, or the Council of Ministers, resigns or Parliament rejects the government, in both cases, the BiH Council of Ministers continues to work until the next government. Who gave the interpretation that there is no co-chair and vice president, that they have ministers appointed by the president and vice president, that is a legal dilettante and is playing with this country. Someone gave that interpretation, I don't know exactly who it is, if I knew who it was, I'd say that name. Generally, the situation is what it is, but the state of the BiH Council of Ministers has been like this before. Why? You know that state entities, that according to Dejton, should have given new powers to the BiH Council of Ministers, they seized those powers. The BiH presidency also raced to take on any authority from the BiH Council of Ministers. You gentlemen here in Parliament, even when we agree in the Council of Ministers of BiH, did not vote our laws, and now we all say that we need the Council of Ministers of BiH. So you can see that that's not the cause, that's the consequence of a condition that needs to be changed and rooted. I've suggested and I'm proposing now for the agenda what I've been proposing for four years. 3.8.1999, as a member of Parliament, I proposed 21 laws of which one was debated, and it was discussed the Law on the Protection of Human Rights established by international conventions, which, according to Dejton, was explicitly rejected by Parliament without discussion. I'm talking about the other 20 laws. That's what's important, gentlemen. That's what's important for us to do as Parliament. The laws are: BiH Criminal Law, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, the Prosecution, the Administration, etc. That's what we agreed on in Madrid, which we didn't do until today, and that's what caused our condition. The BiH Council of Ministers is only a consequence. I propose that these 20 laws, as the legal deadline has passed, be put on the agenda, and that the Council of Ministers of BiH be resolved as it says in Dayton, it is quite clear and loud. Furthermore, if there is a discussion in the BiH Council of Ministers and the election of a new council, I will have a presentation on the BiH Constitutional Court Decision and my opinion on all this. One more thing. The gentlemen here said, I don't know who said the frequencies are in the jurisdiction of the entity or the canton. The frequencies are explicitly in the BiH Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, and it writes nicely there. The OHR has granted that authority to itself by decree. It would be good to do so in other cases when necessary, so that this will not be a selective protectorate, to do other things that are necessary for BiH. I'm just saying this to those who think the frequencies aren't within the central organs. They are and it's quite clear and it's not controversial. I would ask once again to put things on the agenda and, please, to try this session today, dear colleagues, to bring an end to something today. If we start talking about statements, you know you can talk about it for days. I'm going to start talking about a million and a half people, who are four and a half years after Dejton still out of their homes, cities where no one has returned, who have been completely cleansed, about the sufferings of our people, etc. I wouldn't, I'd like to work today, if I can, we've got a lot of work to do and get going.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4875	It's not a question of the agenda, Mr. Silajdžić, please round up, or you have suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4876	There's another sentence, please. All this stuff I said, all these laws I've listed, this isn't something I should do. This had to be done a long time ago, and that depends on our investment, foreign investment and the start of our economy in our country, pensions, social protection, etc., this should have been brought long ago, three years ago. We are late, please pay attention to this, all BiH citizens expect this from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4877	We, by our priorities, really, and in this agenda, have put these points, as we have suggested them, and we have answered, I don't know, I think Mr. Kadić asked that question. We had a college. We agreed in the College on this agenda, noting that I personally support the issue of the first item of the agenda, that is the issue of the BiH Council of Ministers, which should indeed be put on the agenda. Everything else will lead us to a dead end. Mr. Špirić, is it a replica or a discussion? Incorrect quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4878	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if it's Mr. Silajdžić, maybe he didn't hear what I said. I think, as he interpreted the frequency division, it wasn't said behind this pay phone, and that was just me talking about it, so I'll read it to be clear. Since the Law on Telecommunications of BiH, which has already been adopted, the issue of the distribution of all frequencies has been resolved, and this also refers to frequencies for electronic media. An independent press commission is becoming completely unnecessary, and since the very beginning, the members of the Independent Commission themselves have said that the mandate of the Commission is limited and that it will cease to exist when conditions are obtained, so, as far as frequency distribution is concerned, whether they are entity or not? The law regulates it, and the law makes it perfectly clear. The second thing, the Independent Media Commission charges frequency funds from all electronic media, most of them are spent on staff salaries in Sarajevo and the Commission's functioning in Sarajevo, which in a specific way has become a donor to the Federation of BiH. These are important things for every MP, not just an MP from the RS. A third thing that's very important. An independent press commission, and beyond its mandate, has begun to deal with the problems of the press, seeking to establish a body common to BiH that tends to grow up, practically, to the BiH Ministry of Press or Information, these are things that should be put on the agenda and determine the need for the end of such a commission, not only, this concerns not only the issue at RS level, but BiH as a whole. I'm just asking you not to bend. No one said where the entity frequencies are located, rather than whether this Media Commission, whose president has 26,000 marks of salary, which is provided from the back of 90% of the hungry people, should exist or we are able to regulate our relations in a valid manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4879	Thank you very much. We're rounding up now, really. Now we have Mr. Rakić and Mr. Prlić and I think we can round up this discussion, or Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4880	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would suggest that you try to make as clear a definition of replica as possible and that in large letters here you write that fellow MPs would always have in mind and in front of their eyes what a replica is. I've answered my question, two things or two suggestions for the agenda. One question is the BiH Council of Ministers. I think that the question at least needs to be defined today as to how to solve it further, and therefore I support it, someone has suggested that a break be made for the College to consider this question, to see whether there are conditions for it to be put on the agenda today or if it has to be seen for the longest time when it has to come to the agenda, and my suggestion would be that much is not to be expected and to put a deadline at the latest 7-8 days, perhaps less. So much for that. I must express my astonishment in these facts, if they stand, and I have no doubt that I do not believe they stand, as Mr. Banjac said, that those who have proposed the amendments have finally rejected that amendment. I don't think that's recorded in parliamentary practice. The second part of my discussion refers, however, to Mr Izetbegović's statement. If someone else had said that, if one of the MPs had said so, as he said, I would have also felt that such a statement should not be addressed, but we need to bear in mind that such a statement has been made at the moment by the chairman of BiH. In his statement, he declared the two nations BiH's enemies. Two of the three constituent nations, whose leader is now in the BiH presidency, declares BiH's enemies. And for the absurd to be greater, one of the elements that states, which is why they are the enemies of BiH, is the refusal, according to the unique passport. I would remind you, for the sake of truth, that what is now suggested to be removed from the passport, the Representative Council of the BiH Assembly, came right from the BiH Presidency, whose then chairman was Mr Izetbegović and at the then Assembly of BiH, or the PSBiH Representative Council, was only disputed about the size of the entity's letters, so many reminders. Today, those people, who have been in favor of one law that has passed all the congregation procedure, are not touched by the fact that, as many people stress here, we have many other laws that we need to adopt, these people are declaring themselves enemies. According to that logic, tomorrow Mr. Izetbegović and a third nation, whose leader he is now going to declare as the enemy of BiH, because, behold, the people have rejected amendments to a very important law and amendments he has proposed. I must, for the sake of truth, say, that no knowledge, no opinion begins with the truth. The truth is their ultimate goal. It remains to guess what the ultimate goal is in Mr Izetbegović's statement. The final goal can be sought in the second part of the statement, which is not even quoted here, here is to seek a slight build-up of all of us here from that statement, and in that part of his statement, the same pre-election assembly says: "The aim of the SDA is a strong Bosniak people in strong BiH". Can this goal be linked to what he defined as his goals?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4881	I beg you, circle. It really has nothing to do with the agenda. Come on, please. Make a suggestion, if you have one. Let's discipline as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4882	I'll finish with one message. I hope this house will have the strength to accept a mild fence of these statements and hinted truths that you did not let me speak for this speaker, the hinted truths of Alija Izetbegović. I think this is one big test.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4883	The netačan allegation is that Mr Izetbegović did not declare two peoples as enemies of BiH, and I think that this PSBiH House of Representatives has better things to do than to trouble the statements of individual political representatives, individual politicians at pre-election meetings, because on the same basis, the issue of why some MPs did not come to the meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives because of certain statements by individual politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4884	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, distinguished guests. It's not about individual politicians that we understand each other. If it were some politicians, there would be no reaction. It's about Mr. Chairman of the BiH presidency. If Mr. Chairman of the BiH presidency, chaired by all the peoples in BiH, he cannot share the peoples with the friends and enemies of certain peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4885	Here, I don't think we have a replica anymore. We now have Mr. Prlić, finally, and then Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4886	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I, from the title of my post, want to inform you of something that I think is very important for today's work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to say that at this point in time, the situation in BiH is being judged in the international community very seriously, perhaps even seriously after the Dayton Peace Agreement. Of course, she's not as heavy as she was four years ago, but she's very serious anyway. We're actually standing and we're losing step, while others are moving forward. As early as two years ago, we were in front of some elements, today it is quite certain that we are losing sight of those elements that truly represent the common interest of all people who are sitting today and in Parliament, including all BiH citizens. I fully understand that the situation is nervous, pre-election, that there is a need to discuss a number of issues. However, today I can say that Macedonia is starting the 5.4th Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations, that following a similarity study for Albania, the measures and activities presented today by the prime minister in Brussels, that Croatia is starting with a feasibility study, or a similarity study, in the middle of this year, we are, in fact, staying nowhere. We've got so-called. road maps with 18 measures with the European Union. He was discussed yesterday for the first time at a meeting of a constitutional working group that brought together more than 80 participants from both entities, BiH institutions and we will set up a programme of activities to implement these measures and present it to the BiH Parliament. That's one attitude I want to make today. I am going to say today that two points are important if we are to create any kind of, any chance that we can continue the normal process and that these issues are not and should not be of the issue of a dispute between the different parties that exist in parliament. It is a matter of the BiH Council of Ministers and the issue of the Electoral Law. Today it's on the agenda and the Stability Pact. We have nothing to talk about the Stability Pact. I'm sorry I can tell you that. I was told this morning that we had nothing to say on Wednesday and Thursday, the BiH presidency appointed me, along with Mr. Kurtović, and the prime ministers of the entity to be in a delegation to the so-called so-called. A financial conference, unless we have something to bring. It's not a donor conference. On that occasion, we must say what results we have achieved and what results we intend to achieve. Unless we have at least the Council of Ministers, we have nothing to say. Every debate on these issues is completely meaningless. Otherwise, when it comes to projects, as it is often said, a report by the head coordinator, Mr. Hombah, arrived this morning. The total package is somewhere around 1.54 billion euros, which is likely to increase by 200m euros for refugee returns and we can say that BiH's position is more than adequately represented in the fast start package. We expect confirmation of projects related to BiH of around 420m euros or, multiplied by 2, about 840m marks covering all three areas, primarily related to infrastructure. That is why I believe that today, first of all, we should find a way to come to a solution when it comes to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Election Law, without it we have no chance of doing so when it comes to the Council of Europe. We, eventually, should we adopt the Election Law, we could come into some of the situation for our issue to be held at a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the 6th month of this year. If that's not the case, then it's absolutely not real. If we fulfill these tasks p... it's possible to have a study of similarity to the current, the beginning of work on it is only at the end of this year. It's the objective state we're in. I think it's an absolute responsibility of this House at this point. I believe that parliament has the strength to accept this responsibility and today bring this result, so that the BiH presidency and possibly the parliament again, early next week, come to the new Council of Ministers of BiH, which would then give us the opportunity to keep some of the international community's attention to BiH and to achieve something that could possibly keep us alive. Every other variant is absolutely catastrophic and I don't even want to think about what might happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4887	Now Mr. Lagumdžija, and then Mr. Malkić and I believe that we can conclude this discussion at this point, and then I will announce a half-hour break and an extended college meeting, as far as these issues are concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4888	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow Members and MPs, quite naturally, that at this session today, it has tried, both in the agenda that we have received in preparation and through the addition of the agenda, each of us has tried to put some of the questions he considers urgent. The situation in the country is such that the issues are likely to compete with one another which is more urgent and probably each of us has enough reason to explain why much is important and that the agenda, however long it is, is likely to be missing something of what is important. I would like to start by saying that, as far as the party I come from, or from the SDP is concerned, we consider that, in any case, at the top of Parliament's priorities, a whole set of issues relating to BiH's preparations for the new donor cycle and the implementation of the Stability Pact projects. I want to explain it. I fully agree with my distinguished colleague Prlić that the principles of the Stability Pact will not take us far, as parliament. However, I have just learned from this statement that the project list is over and that it is about a billion and a half euros. For example, the information I have is something different when it comes to a donor conference in Brussels and what awaits us there. The fact that the head of a political party, which has a respectable number of MPs in parliament, and the foreign minister does not read the same information is probably enough reason to discuss it. In itself, however, this is not enough reason or reason. The key reason is, in fact, in this situation where we are in the fact that BiH, too, knows less about it here, and some people in this country are still paid to know and to alarm the public. This country is facing a complete economic collapse. Someone come out and say I'm wrong, and first of all, from the point of view of the obligations that arise towards international financial institutions and from the point of view of our expectations from international financial institutions. For me, it is totally unacceptable that, here, we have waited almost two hours and we thought that in preparation for this parliament, I would expect, I must admit, if not from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but I expected, practically, from the BiH Presidency to call a special session of the BiH Parliament, which would have discussed what produced the entire bullet that came with the IMF, because this is not just about extending a tranche, but it is about foreign investors, which Mr Silajdžić was talking about, and so is Mr Spahić, as well as many others, that it is a sign to foreign investors, that this country is a black hole, it is a sign to investors. The other day, a respectable list of countries that are interested in foreign direct investment appeared in the Wall Street Journal. On the list of 27 countries of the former Soviet Union and the whole of Eastern Europe, BiH is located 25 places out of 27 places and what we are talking about. An IMF alert came after that. The authorities are racing here to say that we have met the conditions. The entity governments say, we have met these conditions, as if that solves the problem. Now you know what problems will arise very soon. To explain that point, I mean, since we're not running away from the story of Ustashas and Chetniks. We really don't run away from it, like SDP, we don't run away from it. For SDP, look out, we are against Ustasha and Chetniks, like SDP, who were on the side of fascism and Nazism, even though there is today. We were never for the collective responsibility of any people, whether it is Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian, German, etc. And any statement whose whole nation matches the fascists is unacceptable to us. I want to get this straight. The statements people make in one basket are negative, for us unacceptable to whoever they come from, but this SDP in no way gives anyone the right to accuse me because SDP is against fascism in the form of Chetniks, Ustashas who were on the fascist side and today are on the fascist side, fascist ideology. But it's not the primary thing for today. We can talk about it. No problem at all. It's also unacceptable that anyone, it's our political opponents, you know, because we don't belong to that ideology, we're a party that's very clear. But every identity of the people, I repeat once again, Mr. Skopljak, the identification of the people with any ideology is absolutely unacceptable and I also reject here any association that has been in the discussion that anyone, the head of any nation... Please, Mr. Izetbegović is the president of the BiH presidency, he is the boss of all of us, from that point of view, and as head of the party, he is not my party head, he is someone here, and my Bog. He's a man of his own free will. One of us is past the will of the boss, because a man's got so many votes in the election and I don't want to talk about it, and we can talk about it. To go back to what we want to supplement the agenda. Namely, we suggest, Mr. Skopljak, not to be included, which is said, forcefully, clearly, call it whatever you want. A agenda item called the BiH Preparation Information for a new donor cycle and the implementation of projects on the Stability Pact in the light of relations with international financial institutions. I repeat, the BiH Preparation Information for a new donor cycle and the implementation of projects on the Stability Pact in the light of relations with international financial institutions. I'm not suggesting that it be the first item of the agenda, because it's not prepared. I suggest that the work on the College conclude, if not this home, that the BiH presidency prepare this agenda for us. I repeat, the BiH presidency, so let her call the ministry that she wants and put in charge, if she will, of anyone. The country's presidency needs to do that. To avoid misunderstandings, the reason for this is that a long time ago the Council of Ministers of BiH, to be precise, there about 29.5.1998 concluded stand by arrangement with the IMF, along with, quote: "The obligation to implement reforms that will provide the country's single macroeconomic space is two years old. In 6.6.1999, both sets of entity laws were to be harmonised, and then it was extended from 6.6.1999 to 18.2.202000, so that on 6.3 they would be informed that they would no longer wait for us. Since it is evident that we have an obligation to create a unique macroeconomic space of the country and that this is why we will not get new money, too, is probably the reason I'm talking about this. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, a new donor conference, dedicated to BiH, was planned for June of 2.3 billion dollars. Does this parliament know anything about it? Does this parliament know what time this came and do you know that without that donor cycle, whoever the government is, there's no way. Mr. Minister Prlić, I would like to hear, not from you, but from the people who are preparing that paper that you received, as much as in the package, so-called. The fast start package for the Stability Pact, which should be $2 billion now, how much does it apply to BiH? Who prepared these projects? What is our chance to enter the next package that is now announced at $2.5 billion, because it is known that the countries that are well prepared will be rewarded for it. BiH has no chance of being among the countries that will see any hira, tsar, happiness from the Stability Pact and from the donor cycle, but I repeat once again, I am asking for an answer, urgently, from the BiH Presidency, unless it wants to be told here, to inform the public, where we are with the new donor cycle, because the new donor cycle is, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, for the authority that will be established after the general elections, it will manage it. If this parliament is not interested in what will leave the new parliament in amanet, then I ask that it be known, given that by this time of year we will be putting out invoices for what has been done in ten years.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4889	Please, just one second. I have Mr. Malkić's application here, probably for discussion. Are you giving up? You're giving up. We're closing the discussion. Please don't answer that. I think what we're doing is repeating everything. In the meantime, Mrs Rađević, Mr Špirić, Mrs Perkanović and Mr Spahić reported and, please, I conclude with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4890	The replica is one of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's sentences, which he has now spoken here. Mr. Lagumdžija, I agree with you that considering Mr. Alija Izetbegović's statement is not primarily or primarily and, in your place, I would literally have the same attitude and opinion. However, Mr. Lagumdžija, if you were in my skin, you'd probably think of it differently and, by the way, that I am absolutely not offended by the terms of Ustasha and Chetniks, let them insult whoever feels that way, or let those who feel that way be proud. In that statement, something else offends me, that whoever voted against the law of that and that, that I don't owe, and the passport of that and that is the enemy, and when the president of the state says that someone is an enemy, that, Malten, means let's beat him and kill him. You know, if you were in my skin, you'd think completely different about it and you'd think it was a question of all sorts of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4891	Mrs. Rađević, here, I quote what I said. Anyone whose statement, which is identical to the Chetniks and Ustashas, is unacceptable, and calling MPs fascists is also unacceptable because of the way they possibly voted. Please, proclaiming you or anyone, or me tomorrow by a name that I find ugly because I was in or against a law is unacceptable. I guess that's not a question. However, Mrs Rađević, please, it is perfectly clear that the statements by which MPs are called ugly names because of their vote and declare you an enemy for voting on a large number of laws against what I voted for, I think it is wrong and unacceptable and it is perfectly clear. But once again, it's perfectly clear to you and to all of us, that it's perfectly normal and legitimate for us to disagree on something, and we disagree on the assessment and ours are not or are political friends of people who belong to fascist ideology. My party, the party I come from, the party I represent, a party whose member and history of heritage, including legal and any other legacy, is against Ustasha and Chetnic ideology and it is not disputed. That is no reason to be called by someone and I am calling someone here and not sitting with them to talk to them in parliament, if he also advocates it and draws attention again, we have answered, the first SDP MP has only now come to talk about issues of economic nature, because we felt that parliament should not today be converted into a pre-election assembly. But if someone wants us to make this pre-election rally, we're ready, open the agenda for pre-election and pre-election fights, there's no problem. Dialogues, pre-election replicas, throwing hooks to your people and other people, we can, we're not ready, but we don't want, we don't want, I repeat, but we're ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4892	The replica of this address.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4893	I'm begging you, there's no more discussion or replica on this point, because I think we're going, no more reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4894	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems too much of the time lost as part of the parliamentary debates in this House is too much of the patience of the international community and too much of our regret for all that we have been involved in. I agree for all of these parties, which my colleagues have listed, to be the points of the agenda and to see how long the meeting of this BiH Parliamentary Assembly will take. I don't mind all these points that can be discussed, what Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija was talking about. But, you see, if Mr. Lagumdžija thinks he's exhausted his debate by making a statement about Izetbegović, we're asking that this be the point of the agenda. It may take two and a half minutes for everyone to say they see a statement about their fellow MPs. I don't care about Alija Izetbegović at all, believe me, not the SDA, nor am I afraid of Alija Izetbegović's statements, nor is anyone afraid of any statements, but we must here, first of all, cultivate such an atmosphere that the fellow MP stands behind the MPs and publicly. So it is not important to make a statement, but that we, as a parliament, take the view that no one, no matter what his name is, this time Alija Izetbegović, second time someone else, can, has the right to make offensive statements for BiH lawmakers, peoples and citizens. It's just handing out in terms of this democratic dialogue on all the problems. Don't discuss it unless we're ready to put an end to the agenda. As far as I'm concerned, this debate may take two and a half minutes and nothing longer, but we will make our right and our position known about Alija Izetbegović's statement in such a way as to accept it as a part of the agenda, that is, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4895	I would have understood Mr. Lagumdžija's statements, in terms of Chetism and Ustasha, that he also placed fundamentalism and mujahedine in the same rank. Please, don't stress so much the presence of nationalism on one side and talk about it, and at the same time don't mention that same nationalism in the ranks of your people, no matter how neutral you are, until you put into the same range all the currents, you can't talk about a policy that leads to analyticality.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4896	Mr. Chairman, I would just like to remind you of the fact, because at the beginning we raised one question, on behalf of those who felt it was quite right that the parliament, both home parliament, accepted the obligation that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Council of Ministers of BiH come up with a programme of economic strategy and social policy and others, that both houses of the BiH Parliament had asked the BiH Presidency, according to our initiative, information on the Stability Pact projects and their realisation. Since this implies the responsibility of the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, we are now acting as if it is an older egg or coke. We can say that it doesn't matter, that today we can transfer the tasks to, say, Mr. Kurtović, Mr. Prlić and the BiH Presidency. In addition, as I understood Mr Prlić, he said the BiH presidency authorised the two ministers and two entity prime ministers to attend this conference on March 29th and 30th in connection with the Stability Pact. I was perfectly accurate. We cannot leave the BiH presidency and turn the BiH presidency into a new BiH government, into a new council of ministers. We need to get rid of that Gordy knot. We cannot leave it to the entity prime ministers to act as statesmen where they have no competence, regardless of which they have been part of all the donor conferences so far, as experts, to enable the harmonisation and harmonisation of laws, regulations and offices of relations between what is called the central BiH institution and entity. We can listen to it here as information given correctly by Mr. Minister, but it simply doesn't lead to anything. We're going to have the same situation again, and we need to open that question, whether someone wants it or not. Secondly, it is quite the right finding we heard from Mr Silajdžić, and I am glad that I, I hope, listened carefully, as he listened to me. It's about the next one. We can't figure out that we have a Council of Ministers in BiH. No chairman, no co-chair, that's one sentence, the emperor is naked. Gentlemen, I have been on several visits, in recent times, in BiH and in Europe. They all ask, from Prodi to the last MP and citizens of Europe, what are you doing, people? You don't have a council of ministers, they don't recognize ministers who function this way. My attitude is simple. I don't agree with what we talked about last time, before last, Mr Lagumdžija made a whole series of very concrete remarks. I am not for us, as parliament, to pass on the request to the BiH presidency. We must face the fact here that there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, that we must come to those decisions and that we must start working. We need to unblock the question of our own responsibilities. Nothing means running away from that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4897	There's still Mr. Baković. No more answering anything. Mr. Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4898	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. I, indeed, would not be replicating Mr Spahić, but my gentlemen who were here yesterday in Sarajevo. You knew the House of Peoples was in session. That a lot of work was done by yesterday. You should have pawned your authority, talked to the delegates in the House of Peoples to get it over with. Now, don't make us have to finish what we've already done. Yesterday was the day to do it. Last night, I didn't hear any information about how it ended. I believe you've all been here. Don't make the most of what we've already done. Gentlemen, you have a strong influence here, you could influence five delegates in the Council of Nations and that we can work today and that the Stability Pact, in which I don't understand, but what Mr. Prlić said, I'm glad I don't understand, there's nothing. So, please, what he did yesterday to the people's home, so I mean, really, don't give us back five laws to consider in five minutes. Those proposals on the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4899	Dear ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow MPs, esteemed chairman, I'd just like to say a few words about Mr Lagumdžija's performance. I think Mr. Lagumdžija is performing, given the pre-election campaign. The SDP as such can be taken. But I am very, very uncomfortable if Mr Lagumdžija, as president of the SDP, says the SDP succeeds in a legal and political sense, and in a philosophical sense, all that the communists had, it offends. I think that both fascism and communism as such belong to totalitarian regimes and that they must be foreign to us. Therefore, the use of Ustasha and Chetnik terms is similar to a Bolshevik, in fact, somewhat communist. So let's, please, let's leave it all to history, and we're building politics and political relations on a completely different and democratic basis. I think Mr. Izetbegović's statement and his performance should be condemned and he is our president and he is our head of state and should, in any case, declare in a more democratic, humane, humane way, and not use what breaks us apart.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4900	Please, we're rounding up this rapture, the way it is, as if we don't have more important work to do, and let's do, however, something concrete. I suggest that our new member of the House of Representatives be promoted, or sworn in. Please listen to me a little more carefully. As you know, Mrs Alma Čolo resigned from the Electoral Commission. The resignation has been accepted. I have no reason here and are not familiar with them, mostly, the Interim Election Commission, according to the regulations and rules of the Interim Election Commission, gave approval to the resignation of Alma Čolo, and that her next candidate from the CD BiH Coalition, Mr Hamdija Kulović, is a member of our parliament. Mr. Hamdija, welcome. Please join us here for a solemn statement. Mr. Divković, what did you want?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4901	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4902	Before this? I don't know what it's like now. How about after this? Okay, please, wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4903	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the imunitetski-Mandation Commission, and we, I would say this very quickly agree that Mr. Kulović fulfils all the conditions to make a solemn commitment here, it is not disputed. However, I ask the question whether, as a parliament, without any reason, we can accept the resignation of a member of Parliament, agreeing with it too quietly, and that we do not have a very good explanation of what this is really about. If we continue to do so, then tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, every member of our parliament, can report that he is no longer a member of parliament for his own known reasons and that we simply accept it that way. It's something that I don't understand that we can accept. I'm asking to be given an explanation that I'm going to accept, quite logically, if it's a real explanation. However, let us not put in practice that everyone resigns without reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4904	Here's the news I'm getting now that she's resigning here at the PSBiH House because of the incompatibility of her function. I have received an official letter from gentlemen in charge of both democratisation and establishment in this country, therefore, I do not consider doing anything illegal and anything that is against the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that Mr. Kulović, here, if there's anything, here, you'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4905	Ms Alma Čolo, so far an MP, has made a written request to the Interim Election Commission to dismiss the mandate of MEPs in the PSBiH House of Representatives, for reasons of ambition to deal with the judicial function and for the incompatibility of that function with the mandate, and with the mandate of MPs. We assumed that the request was shared to the MPs, given that it went directly to the Interim Election Commission, was not delivered to the MPs, but it is an explanation and I think it is understandable and acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4906	Thank you very much. Here is a letter from Mr. Beri explaining that Alma Čolo's resignation was accepted and that Mr. Kulović was the next candidate. Please, Mr. Kulović, and please stand up, because this is, however, solemn. Mr. Kulović, you will read in your own language. I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4907	I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4908	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4909	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4910	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4911	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4912	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4913	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4914	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4915	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4916	Welcome. I'd like to ask the Extended College to meet now, a half-hour break. According to the agreement before the break, the College had a session in an extended composition and suggestions which we, or the conclusions we have in the proposal, you received in writing and I hope you have on the table. [[PAUZA]] Then let's get in line. Proposition number 1, Mr Miodrag Deretić, to include, under the agenda, the conclusion on Alija Izetbegović's statement, under the first point, at the pre-election meeting on 3.3.2000. All proposals that are for the vote will be put to the vote, as we say, and will be included, that is, removed from the agenda. Please, we have a quorum, we have 29 MPs. It'll be a clear question. Who's for this proposal to go as the first item of the agenda? Please make a statement. There's really no more discussion. 16 — Out of 29. Now by entities vote. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Thank you very much. From the Federation of BiH, who's against? Who's restrained? Who's from RS for? - 11 Who's against it? We won't count any more abstentions, because we know the abstentions don't count, except the quorum. I ask the secretariat to announce the results of the vote. For it was 16 total. From the Federation of BiH, 5 were in favour, 6 were against, four were abstentions. From RS 11 for and 1 is against. Does anyone have any objection to this proposal, to the results of the vote or in the way of voting? We find this proposal has not been made on the agenda. There's no consent. Ibrahim Spahić's proposal, a debate on the Stability Pact, a debate on economic and social policy in this regard, found that the rights on the Stability Pact can be governed under point 8 of the agenda proposal, where we have the Information of the BiH Presidency. With regard to the debate on economic and social policy, the position taken is to agree with the College of the People's House on holding a special session on this issue, no later than 7 days. The third proposal, representative of Mr Špirić, we have two points here. 1. That the House may discuss the fate of the ambassador Ibrahim Đedović. Now I ask the MPs who's in favor of that being the agenda point? We vote for the first one now. The fate of Mr Ibrahim Đedović. - 27 for it. That's where we have most of it. Who is against all MPs? - There's no one. By entities, the vote. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against it going on the agenda? From the RS, who's in favor of this going to the agenda? So I think this point has got the green light. Understand that it's a technical mistake. We have point 2 of Mr Špirić, so I ask all MPs who is at point 2 of Mr Nikola Špirić to include as point 5 an analysis of the current work of the Independent Commission for Media and the creation of conditions for its shutting down. Who's in? - 17 Who is against – 1 By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - Who's against it? - The others are restrained, and we said in a vote that we would have as few abstentions as possible, which is our right to each of us. In RS, who's in? - 11 Who's against it? – 1 In the first round there must be one third for each entity. Ten was supposed to be in. Unfortunately, this proposal has not passed, Nikola. This is okay. This is the point of the agenda, what a alignment, it's not the law. She's out. Mr Halid Genjac's proposal to include the proposal for a bill on the BiH Council of Ministers, all proposings, the BiH presidency, Halid Genjac, Ana Havel and the SDP MPs' Club. The College has taken the view that a compromise on the bill is being held within 7 days. This is just information. I have information from Halid that with this conclusion, which he agrees with, he is withdrawing his proposal, therefore, we have nothing, this is just information. Under point 5 of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal that the BiH presidency prepares information on BiH's preparations for the new donor cycle and on the implementation of the Stability Pact project, in light of relations with international financial organisations. The college has taken the view that this initiative, directed to the BiH presidency, is preparing material. This is just for information. Under the 6th proposal by Mr Haris Silajdžić to be included in the agenda of the 20 laws he sent to parliament, as an MP, in August of '99. A year. The College has taken the view that the laws are being directed in the procedure of the Constitutional Commission. Apparently, that part of the job hasn't been done yet. Thank you very much. Therefore, along with these notes and this item that has been voted on, we have a agenda that has been adopted. Nikola has one compromise solution. Let's adopt at least a full agenda, and then... You're staying at the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4917	Ladies and gentlemen, about the first debate on the points that have been accepted and which are not, I want to announce the following. RS MPs, from a series of different policy options, have decided to make a statement on the first item of the agenda. The decision of the BiH Parliament is what it is. By not accepting part of the Bosniak MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, that the 18th session should take place on the agenda and strongly condemn part of Mr. Alija Izetbegović's statement, given at the pre-election meeting of the SDA, held on 3.3rd in Skenderia, which reads: "Enemies are, remember that, Ustashas and Chetniks. These are the people who, in difficult, critical days, raised their hands on innocent people, against the state of BiH and all that it means, and thus against the Border Service, the functioning of state institutions, unique passports, single currencies, etc." The domestic and international public are made clear that most MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Bosniak nationality, are still not ready to build co-existence, international tolerance and reconciliation in BiH's premises. This view of most Bosniak-led MPs endangers the work of joint institutions, thus jeopardising the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, signed by RS lawmakers and will deliver it to the BiH media. Regarding the second point, which I asked for, I would like to say that I was informed by the Member of the College, Mr Banjac, that it was a very second conclusion of the College, which is that this point will be included in the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, when the necessary materials are prepared, therefore, it is not agreed, as it says here, and I will use my parliamentary right to deliver the materials for the next unit of the Assembly, and I ask you to faithfully present what you have concluded at the College to the MPs at the PSBiH Representative Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4918	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. I'm trying to do it, as far as I know and can, really, and we'll see, if it's a slip, we'll fix it. I beg you, since we now have a final vision of the agenda. This point by Mr Nikola Špirić under number 1 was adopted and it goes normally, since it did not look for a special place in this agenda, it goes under point 13, and point 13 is the answer to the parliamentary questions and the issues of MPs go under point 14. This is now a whole agenda proposal, as integrated as it is. We now have to declare the integral agenda, all of these 14 points. I'm asking who's on the agenda, the way he's proposed?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4919	The voting process has begun. The man asked who's in favour?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4920	He was given a break. Whether giving up the proposal or agreeing to this, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4921	The voting process is on its way. The man asked who it was for, people. Well, I guess I heard it well. Don't be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4922	Let it be on my soul and a compromise solution, since I gave Mr Špirić my word, I am giving Mr Silajdžić now. Here you go, Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4923	I must say, first of all, that I am surprised by my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, that he has insisted so much on one statement without insisting on who's been doing and who's been doing it since '92. To this day. Perhaps Mr. Izetbegović meant those who killed 200,000 people here. That's what happened, and that's why some of them are in The Hague. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4924	Don't, please, some of them were in The Hague real healthy. Don't start that discussion here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4925	Excuse me, please, this discussion began a long time ago. I've been waiting for him to stop. I asked us not to. Now that this discussion has begun, I'm going to say this, gentlemen. This is a smoke screen behind which BiH is ethnically cleaned, and we're talking about what anyone said, you understand, and who doesn't like, let it go. If we're done, we're done. What a way this is. Twenty cities stand clean in BiH, and we are talking about statements here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4926	I, however, ask the MPs to stay in their seats.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4927	Where did the statement come from, how to read a statement here in the public space of the MPs? Who said that? Did we say the point isn't working? With what right? Second, I'm moving on. I want to know what's going on with my agenda here about the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, Criminal Law, the Law on the Court, here's why, gentlemen, the Law on Property, etc. These 20 laws were supposed to be on the agenda two months ago. We are talking about the Stability Pact, the accession to the Council of Europe, etc. Without this foundation, gentlemen, the state can't go anywhere, and so I insist, I insist on voting on this item of the agenda, which is 20 laws, please. The Law on the Fundamentals of Transport Security, the Law on Interstate and Inter-entity Railway Transport, the Law on the Establishment and Registration of Institutions, the Property Act, cannot be privatised properly, in the Council of Europe, nor in the Stability Pact without it. We are wasting our time here on a statement, and the people expect us to do something to make investments, to start a job in BiH. We've been wasting our time here all day talking about statements about what anybody said. Let's see who's doing it. It's our job to adopt these laws. Here are the drafts, and proposed, and, please, I insist that we work on what is in the interest of every citizen of BiH, of which are citizens, and not statements. Can I have that? Can I get a vote on every single law?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4928	Ask for a vote and you will receive a vote and please ask the Secretariat to see if there is a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4929	Get the MPs to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4930	Come on, please, try to convince the MPs to come out and vote for this proposal or against it, however you wish. I'm asking you nicely, with this approach, we're actually mining everything, as much as we care or don't care about any solution. I say, I absolutely agree that it burns under our feet and that we have much better things to do than we're doing here right now. But, unfortunately, how can we direct it, I really don't know. Mr. Kadić, are you giving up or do you have something? We'll try to get the MPs back if we can.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4931	Ladies and gentlemen, about seven months ago, four MPs asked that a special session be called on the agenda of the House, on the subject of BiH's economic and social policy in 2000. We believe that this is an important point and then it was the conclusion of the College that, when the relevant documents are prepared, or materials, it will come to the agenda and it seems to be in the final phase and can be called to this session. I took this as an opportunity to say that today, by adopting, by agreeing on the agenda proposal, the College worked Lagumdžija, so it took the view that this initiative was directed to the BiH Presidency to prepare adequate material to discuss it. I warn you, however, gentlemen of the College, it may be a bit harsh, that you have not taken the same attitude at some other points of the agenda, which I have informed you of at the Expansive College, which is, for example, the agenda point Analysis of the current work of the Independent Commission for Media and the creation of conditions for its shutting down. You had to take the view that there was no relevant position in the document in the House of Representatives and that we cannot plead at the House of Representatives just because one representative asked for it. You also had to take a position that we do not have relevant documents regarding Mr Ibrahim Đedović, or his status, and that we would probably be happy to discuss here now, but based on all the relevant documents that the College must prepare for the PSBiH House of Representatives. The House of Representatives cannot be a speaker on unprepared topics. If, therefore, in the case of Spahić – Kadić- Filipović – Branković is waiting seven months for the agenda point, if Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija will wait for a new session to prepare the BiH presidency, then he cannot go. If this is 20 laws that are already two and a half years in a phase where they had to plead. You even skipped it because of the break that Mr Špirić skipped, and that's why I intervened from the scene, then you have to be consistent at the College, that you can't even propose, or, I mean, it might be good, in the extreme, if the House of Representatives decides, but that those points of the agenda, which are prepared, which have materials from authorised proposings and which can be taken in a final, clear position, if it is information, conclusions, or adopted as laws, as in the case of dr. Silajdzic. That's one of my remarks about that. If we had all relevant materials in the Đedović case and in the media commission, perhaps voting in this house would be something different from what it was and perhaps it would reduce unnecessary tensions which, otherwise, exist when a point on the agenda is proposed. At that session, without any documents, then MPs simply remain in a position to make difficult statements, and perhaps they would plead to have a prepared agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4932	Chairman, I am speaking to you personally this time, and I ask you to hold a session more vigorously and that, if you make a mistake once, do not allow the entire session to be questioned because of this error. Today we have a draft agenda, which is agreed and for which we should vote. I am speaking to you, fellow MPs, to take this very seriously, yes, if we were to absorb this agenda today, that we would do a great job. It doesn't end today. The initiatives that have been launched, they will get, through procedure, the right to come if they deserve to come to this home, but let us really now vote on this agenda on which agreement has been reached. We have a chance today to pass a few laws. We have a chance to come up with a draft electoral law that is one of the essential laws for our European integration. These European integrations are all our mouths, and we really do everything we can not get to that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4933	We have here a request from Mr. Haris Silajdžić to vote on his proposal as well. Right, Mr. Silajdžić? I think, in the spirit of what we had up there, we could put it on. Mr. Banjac, do you agree? We have to put it to the vote, it is his will, as a representative, so I ask all MPs, who is for Haris Silajdžić to be placed on the agenda? This proposal is number six. A review of 20 laws by Mr. Haris Silajdžić, which he filed in August 1999.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4934	Dear gentlemen, some things are moving in a direction that is not right. Where's the list of those 20 laws that we got in front of us? The laws have been sent to MPs before, so it can't be said they haven't been delivered. They were delivered. Second question, have the Constitutional Commission procedure passed? I know they're not. I ask you, don't put it on the agenda, there's a conclusion that there's no agenda something that hasn't passed the Constitutional Commission, and these laws, responsibly, have not been on the Constitutional Commission and have not passed the procedure. So I can't, in my opinion, put myself on the line and draw attention to the conclusion of this home about the procedure, putting an end to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4935	I agree with colleagues who said BiH is in a difficult situation, precisely because of this. We don't have the foundation of the state. If they weren't, it's your responsibility, sir. You don't ask me why they weren't. You ask you and your colleagues why it has not been so far, because the deadline has expired. I'm saying without this, and we're still in Madrid saying that we're going to do this right now, we can't go to Ve, we can't get investment, we're still going to move around in circles. These are the foundations. I'm not saying that these laws should be aligned with these priorities one way or another, but that we need to discuss them and we'll discuss it sooner or later, that's for sure. No one can take us anywhere the way we are. This country has no foundation and therefore I insist on it. There won't be an investment, there won't be a reception anywhere if we don't do this, because that's what people told us to do, do what it says here. The reform of the justice system in Madrid, look at Madrid. So if it wasn't for the Constitutional Commission, I'm sorry, I don't know, you should know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4936	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, we are trying, the three of us, to work out such bill proposals, that is, everything that is on our agenda, how we get from the Secretariat, that is, here we have a review of materials that have not been discussed in the meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives. These are all our priorities, and without any promotions, they're on the agenda. I say, maybe it's not absolutely fair, and if there's such justice, I don't know, but if you attack on it, then we won't have an end or a beginning. I am for Mr Silajdžić's proposal to be put to the vote, so what Bog will give him, but I ask you, how then, if we put it today as a item of the agenda, how we're going to discuss, how we don't have these laws here in our hand, etc., which are the consequences of all this, not getting into a dead end and everything else. I'm just asking that we don't open this discussion again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4937	Just brief information. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs discussed four of the proposed 20 laws of Dr Silajdžić, and we intended to further discuss all the laws at the Commission's session on constitutional and legal issues. Unfortunately, at that session of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, the Commission did not have the right majority of votes to take a stand, given the opposition of some members of the Commission that these laws, or some of its provisions, were not in line with the BiH Constitution. Therefore, the Commission could not make a majority decision on the existence of a constitutional basis, when these laws, at least these four, but that does not mean, of course, that we will not consider all other laws in normal procedure. I'd like to draw your next attention, Chairman. The laws proposed by Dr Silajdžić passed all the planned procedure, according to a conclusion adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The Constitutional Commission will put the laws on the agenda once the PSBiH House of Representatives College has included those laws in the draft agenda and then the Constitutional Commission declares these laws. That is why, as with any law today, we have held a session today and have declared ourselves about the Budget, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, and all the agreements that you have on the agenda. The Constitutional Commission can be declared before that, but it is usually declared on the basis of a draft agenda for the PSBiH House of Representatives session, which is established by the College. That is why it would be good, since it has passed all the procedures and independent of this vote today, if it does not pass, for the College to establish Silajdzic's laws as a item of the agenda for the next or any other session, and the Constitutional Commission, as well as any other committee, will declare the existence of a constitutional basis, or the absence of a constitutional basis for each of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4938	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs - MPs, colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I have come to your attention that we do not go to anything that could lead us to a new dead end. Let me just remind you, we are on the proposal of the College, under point 6, the materials that we have received, the proposal of the College was to take the legal instructions in the procedure of the Constitutional Legal Commission. A proposal from the College, which was unanimous, which means you, Mr. Skopljak, Mr. Banjac and Mr. Genjac. Normally, every MP you represent doesn't have to ask for anything else afterwards. You've agreed that this is going to the Constitutional Commission. poslanik Silajdžić has full business rights, as well as political right, to demand that this House, however, declares its proposal. In order for us not to get into any unnecessary problems, I think that, Mr. Chairman, you should now be perfectly normal and not create a new panic about it, to put to the vote the legitimate request of Parliamentarian Silajdžić. If this home puts it on the agenda, we already have the conclusion of this home that the Constitutional Commission must do so. Which means, when we get there, if Bog gives good luck to the 15th point of the agenda, which is a set of Silajdzic's proposed laws, then probably, the Constitutional Commission, then, by the decision of this home, will have to meet. Whether it's today or another time, this wouldn't be the first time or the last time we started and continued the session another time. That's why I don't think we're opening new business dilemmas. Unfortunately, the College agreed, but one part of the MPs, apparently in the College, had no agreeable position within their parliamentary group, the CD Coalition, and that's the thing of that coalition and these relations, and we don't have to go into it. However, we need to make a statement about the proposal of MP Silajdžić. I would also, since it is said here that the material is not for the point that we have established, which refers to Ibrahim Đedović, when we come to that point of the agenda, because we adopted it to be on the agenda, then we will, or we will find out that there is no material, and then we conclude something by it, and I only remind you that somewhere in the Secretariat there is material, to deliver it, because in the last session, there was a parliamentary question of what happened to Mr Đedović, that is the SDP's Club, and I want to inform you that we did not get an answer to that question, so if we get an answer to that question in writing, then we will probably have a basis for the agenda point, when it comes to the agenda and we should not be having problems about it, and that is the reason, Mr Špirić, why we have been restrained on the proposal of your work so far, so much that we do not have a lot. Mr. Skopljak, I would ask you to put this on the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure, but to make sure that the Constitutional Commission meets as soon as possible, provided that this is included in the agenda, too, I remind the sekretarijat once again that it has not been delivered to us, whether that is the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4939	According to the information I have from the Secretariat, here, I also don't remember getting it, and it probably is in the materials, has an answer to the information about Mr Ibrahim Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4940	Mr. Skopljak, let's not get into how I didn't get it. The President of the Constitutional Commission, acting as MPs, said here that we do not have the material and I alone, trusting MP Kadić, said, well, we have no material because I do not have it either. In other words, very simple, when the agenda point Đedović comes, then obviously we will have material in front of us, which was probably the goal of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4941	I don't want us to stick around at this point, just one quick, little question here. Mr. Kadić said it was a constitutional basis. We discussed it at the BiH Council of Ministers, we couldn't agree on a constitutional basis somewhere, and so we asked the OHR for an opinion. The OHR gave its opinion and on this basis, let's say for part of the law, judicial reform when it comes to it, is now being done by the Venice Commission on the basis of OHR's opinion. Does this mean again that we will now seek constitutional ground again, so we will re-send the OHR to the same opinion, and we will re-send it to the Venice Commission, etc., we are wasting time, that is. We lost three years saying this. It is that there is a constitutional basis, a constitutional basis for these laws, and that the OHR has already given its opinion and that this is why the Venice Commission is working, that we are not wasting time on it. Look, you'll get back to OHR and their legal opinion, we're going around in circles, and this depends on employment and pensions, etc. If we don't meet these conditions, there's nothing from investment, there's nothing from economy, etc. That's why I insist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4942	I answered the word, simply, and some things must be made clear and how we agreed to behave. We have received a set of laws from Mr Silajdžić, without any explanation and without any material that must be by any law. In one conclusion of the congregation, we made it clear how we would work, so we said. In the first place, a constitutional basis must be explained. In another place, there must be a clear explanation of why the law is passed. In third place, there must be a material basis, where funds will be provided for law enforcement and fourth place not to list, etc. Therefore, if I, for example, proposed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Constitutional Commission did not want to consider it until I gave such an explanation. Now all of a sudden we're going back to voting today on the agenda and the laws that we've received in one package, with no clear all of these definitions that every law must have. Today at the extended College we agreed, give for the next assembly prepare, complete all these laws, send the laws to the Constitutional Commission and, depending on it, we will put one at a time on the agenda or all together. Therefore, I am not voting for these laws today, for this reason, which I believe we cannot work in chaos, but must work in principle, according to each and every law proposed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4943	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to the esteemed colleagues Mr. Silajdžić and Mr. Rakić for potentially breaking into their debate. However, I am obliged to say, call this the wrong quote, whatever you want. I've now asked to be provided with an answer regarding Mr. Đedović, because I apologized for, I don't know, I didn't get it, I said I didn't get it. Some of you said you got it. Now, in the meantime, I got it, and I want it to stop, I withdraw my apology, an apology, because this is why it is claimed to be the answer for Mr. Đedović, is the answer for Mr. Đedović and that answer from the OSCE. I was last time, not troubled by the question asked by Mr Špirić, who said, what about the validity of Mr Đedović's mandate, one, and two of the rights of the DNZ to appoint another, that was Mr Špirić's question. And I know the OSCE delivered this answer, but this isn't an answer to me, but what's even more important, this isn't the answer to the question I asked. I asked a completely different question, and I didn't ask the OSCE, but I asked the country's competent institutions. Please, gentlemen, for the wrong allegation, SDP and SDP MP, the Club and I personally did not get an answer to our question, and there will be an opportunity to plead on the 14th point of the agenda when one day we get to it and I expect to get an answer before the agenda comes, but not to get an answer from Mr. Beri. I'm not interested in the OSCE's answer in the context of the questions I've asked. Don't stick to an MP in custody on the orders of the OSCE. And I don't care about Mr. Beri's answer in answer to the question I asked, and on that point, on the 14th point of the agenda, there will be a very good opportunity for someone to answer, especially the one who claims we've already answered everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4944	About Mr. Rakić's earlier appearance. Let me tell you, Mr. Rakić, if you have read this package, then you could see that every draft law was done by the legion of artis, after a public debate of about 50 experts in BiH, regardless of the parties and nationality, we have done so for months and are the result of draft laws that have constitutional basis, members and reasoning. Not the preamble, and the way it's done today, because it's something modern. We did it the old way. Constitutional basis, matter, members, so justification, each of these laws has it and it's not called chaos but order, so we did it and it's three years old straight. So anyone could read who they wanted. It has a constitutional basis, it's another thing whether you agree or disagree, that's why I'm asking for a debate, they have members, they have an argument. There's no one to pay for that law, because we still don't know that, of course, but we'll know soon enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4945	Thank you very much. We'll certainly put it to a vote, that's what we have to do and that's our...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4946	Thank you. I'm just trying to get a hold of Dr. O'Donnell's discussion. Lagums. And I, two minutes ago, got an answer about, I meant the Đedović case, as it was set at the last session, but this is the answer to the parliamentary question, it was quite reduced compared to what the SDP asked for. That's the first one. Secondly, we have no response from any official institution, based on what the SDP asked for at the previous session, in connection with the Đedović case, and in that case I said that the agenda item might have been better prepared. But since it is now included, then we will probably draw conclusions, so we can prepare it, or answer for some next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4947	Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the item of the agenda, which was adopted, opened the debate. I wouldn't want this agenda point to come to the conclusion that we should apologize in general, and if we didn't, the point is on the agenda. Everyone will say what they have on that agenda point, so I guess people will stand behind that MP who, according to some, is not a good Bošnjak or Musliman. We are in favour of protecting the right of every citizen of BiH and every MP, and therefore I ask you, that is the point of the agenda and retain the right to discuss within the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4948	I think we've exhausted this discussion. Now, I ask you all to plead by voting for Mr. Haris Silajdžić's proposal whether to enter the agenda or not. I ask who's for Mr. Haris Silajdžić's proposal to enter the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4949	I'm sorry, what's going in? At one point, all the laws. Come on, guys, let's see what we're voting for.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4950	Mr. Silajdžić, you know what the laws are.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4951	Within the meaning of Article 8.2. I have submitted drafts to this BiH Assembly to discuss and adopt the interim Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The first law is the Law on the Protection of Human Rights, established by international conventions, which are an integral part of the BiH Constitution, which, if you remember, was at the debate here. Unfortunately, that didn't go away, which, in my opinion, Dejton was audited. It is clear and loud in Dayton that international conventions are governed by domestic legislation. Secondly, we have the Criminal Law of BiH, the Law on the Court, the Law on the Prosecution, the Law on the Defence, the Law on the Urpava of BiH, administrative disputes, the Law establishing the registration of the institution, the organisation of the association in BiH. It is mainly about the system of judicial new and administrative, which was the case in Madrid and what is clearly said in Madrid. Next, we have a very important set of property laws. The BiH Property Act, the Real estate law in BiH, we have big problems here, BiH citizens have big problems, the Law on the importance of public documents in BiH, you know, the Law on interstate and inter-entity road transport. Transport contract law, road transport. The road safety law. The BiH State Roads Act. The law on interstate and inter-entity rail transport, because we've never implemented Annex 9 that talks about corporations. The law on transport contracts, rail transport, safety of rail transport. It's a law of internal and maritime navigation. Law on interstate and interagency communications and the Law on the financing of railway infrastructure. With this, gentlemen, we would have, in my opinion, a new judicial system, a set of property laws and basic laws that would later, of course, bring us to Europe, but we would at least be on the way to the recovery of our economy and our political system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4952	Thank you very much, Mr. Silajdžić. You'll get your word, Mr. Dokić. I'm just asking you, I'm saying without predication, it's going to be the law, that's all the material that's gone through the regular procedure, and I don't think there's any difference here, and I think all these laws are going to be in order, so I think maybe it's inconclusive when a man is considering now how we're going to put 20 laws on the agenda, that's my thinking. I'm asking you to think about it, and everybody else. It will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4953	If you please, it is really inappropriate to come out with a package of 20 laws at the end of the adoption of the agenda, for which it is for a single session, for which it is certainly half a year to be considered. I take this job that I'm doing extremely seriously. If I didn't take him seriously, I'd just vote against those laws. But precisely because I consider this job extremely serious, I suggest and I suggest that it does not put itself in an awkward situation to pass him by. Those proposals that have a legal basis, which pass the procedure, and not all have passed the procedure, surely we'll put them on the agenda very soon. It's my suggestion not to play with serious things, and I'm warning you, there's not much on the agenda. I am now unable to assess whether they had a constitutional basis for some of these proposals, or whether there is no constitutional basis for these proposals. As a result, I suggest that the proposer give up on this, it will be more useful for the congregation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4954	But if the motionary stays on it, I have to put this to the vote and put it to the vote. Who is to put item 6, in such a statement as Mr Haris Silajdžić gave, on the agenda? Who's in? Here you go, gentlemen, I'm asking you everything. Who's in? - 11 Who's against it? - 16 A abstention? - Okay, here you go, saying there's no need for entities. This proposal didn't go through. We are now going to the final adoption of the agenda, as proposed, with this point 13. The fate of Ambassador Ibrahim Đedović. Who's to vote the agenda, like we suggested for 18. The seat, the one you've got? Who's in? - 22 Who's against it? - It's nobody. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 10 Who's against it? From the RS, who's in? – 12 Who is against – I konstatirati that the agenda, along with this point 13 as a supplemental point, is adopted, so we immediately move on to the first item of the agenda. Does anyone have a grudge in the way they vote? If there is, go ahead. If he doesn't, we'll move to the first point. Ad. 1. Voting by entities on the draft electoral law, the SDP Representatives' Club Proposer This is the first round of voting, with another note, that the argument that those who refrain from voting are counted only in the quorum. They're not counting on the results of the vote. I keep this in mind. There's no discussion on this. When the record comes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4955	But conditions, there can't be a point on the agenda. Here, let the lady say hers. I believe that you may not have a record from the 16th session in front of you now, but on page 7 of that journal stands under b) The draft of the BiH election law, in brackets of the SDP MPs' groups, so – they voted for, since they were individually listed names, against voting, numbered names; they abstained, numbered names and then the text stands. The chairman found that the bill had 12 votes in favour of the bill, and against 11-3 MPs were abstentions. That's not true. When the names were counted, there were 12 for and 12 against, and then it essentially changed what this law came to the second round of voting, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4957	Please, we have an entity vote here. I said what it means to be abstentioned in the vote, so I hope there's no more reason for that. Now I'm asking, from the Federation of BiH, who's on point one. A draft election law, a proposed SDP representative club? Who's in? – 11 Who is against the Federation of BiH – 5 From RS, who is for this point number 1, who is for? - 1 Who's against it? - 11 I ask the Secretariat to make a statement. I must conclude that the first point has not passed, unfortunately, has not been adopted. Any objections to the vote, Mr. Lagumdžija, do you? We'll go to a match, and we'll see. We're finally done with the first act. Ad. 2. Voting by entities, again on the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković I ask gentlemen from the Federation of BiH, who is for this law? – 11 Who is against the Federation of BiH? - 5 from the RS when it's in favor? - 2 Who's against RS? – 11 This item of the agenda is to be agreed upon. Thank you very much. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Ad.3. Report from the Commission to the College of Understanding Here is Halid Genjac, chairing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4958	So there wouldn't be a misunderstanding and a stenogram. You remember at the 17th session and the 16th, we had a problem with how to interpret the abstentions, and we came to a conclusion on how to count the abstentions. We also concluded that all votes at the 16th and 17th sessions that were, without the abstentions, would be completed by the entity voting process. After this interpretation of the vote, these proposals received most of the votes present, we have now seen if they will win by entities. If he had won both entities, the proposal would have been completed, adopted, as he received only in one entity, the required ten votes, a third of it goes to a consensus, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4959	I think the services will explain and act according to the law. Please, we're going to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement (a) On the proposal of the representative Zlatko Lagumdžija on the draft of the BiH electoral law, I owe Drago Ljubičić here one explanation, this is a long round of voting and according to the proposition, i.e. according to the Constitution and the voting method, there must be two-thirds of the one-and-a-other entity here. Against adoption, unless the Law passes, or less if the Law is to be passed, it is only to the knowledge of those who hold back. Please, first let's go point a) explain first. The Commission report I think you all got, I have no reason to read it separately. I beg you, from the Federation of BiH, who is for this proposal? Who's up for this proposal? Who is against this proposal from the Federation of BiH? - Six. We have an intervention here that's reasonable, that all I have to ask is who's against it. Here we go. From the RS, please, who's against? 11 I ask the Secretariat to give me the right number of votes. From the Federation of BiH, 6 against. From RS – 11 against. Therefore, this law has not been passed. We have a point (b) Ad.b) on the amendment of MP Miodrag Deretić, on the draft law on public documents, we must first declare the amendment and then on the integrated text of the Law. Now I ask, who is against this amendment? Who's from the Federation of BiH against? - 10 against the Federation of BiH. From the RS, who's against? - 1 The amendment has passed, here, according to the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4960	Please read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4961	The College believes this amendment has passed. We are voting now, this amendment that we have now voted goes into the integral text of the law that we now want to vote on. Well, I'm asking again, now I'm asking who's in favor and who's against it, this is now the actual first round of voting. Please, for all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4962	Dear Members of the Parliament, I think there's a little bit of a mix-up for you. Let's settle some things. There's a possibility there wouldn't be any misunderstanding. This vote concludes the third item of the agenda and moves to the fourth. It's the first thing to say in a stenogram, that's the first thing. Secondly, I ask the chairman to open the fourth point, put it to the vote of the Law on Public Corrections, with the amendment adopted, and that is the fourth point, and get it into the stenogram, so that there is no confusion in the whole.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4963	The amendment has been passed. Now we have a fourth point. Ad.4. The vote on the integral text of the Proposal for a Law on Public Corrections, with this amendment, we must vote here on who is against it. Who's to pass this law with the amendment? You have under point 2. Voting for the integral text of the proposal for a law on public documents. Now I ask all the MPs, who's against it? - Nine against. Thank you very much. Now I'm asking from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour of the integral text with the amendment? - Five for it. Who's against the Federation of BiH? - 9 from the RS when it's in favor? - 11 Who's against it? - 2 Please, vote results. First the Federation of BiH. Unfortunately, this bill didn't go through, he's going on a date. Any objections to the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4964	I have one sentence. Dear Members of Parliament, here is finally the farce. I wish, sir, as an MP to say, Mr Lagumdžija, I am now speaking to you, this is not important for entering Europe. This is now, you see, it doesn't matter. You don't like just one amendment to write RS, well done, citizen's option.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4965	Thank you for this intervention, I hope it doesn't cause a chain reaction. Please. Does anyone have an objection to the vote? Here, it's exactly three hours and lunch break an hour. We're continuing the 18th session. [[PAUZA]] We're at point 5. Ad.5. The draft budget of BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000, with a proposal for 2000, is there anyone from the BiH Presidency to refer or from the BiH Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4966	Ladies and gentlemen, the BiH Presidency has authorised me, that is, to be tasked with presenting the new Budget draft, in line with the remarks you submitted at the last session. You've been given time-consuming material, so you've had a chance to analyze and assess whether we've installed all those remarks you've provided. That's why I'm going to try to be brief, although, last time, I think Mr. Lagumdžija was absolutely right when he said there would be exposés about the Budget, not slowly going over this material. After the analysis, remarks put forward by MPs, we made one proposal adopted by the BiH presidency, which meant a reduction from certain positions and a transfer within those final figures to other positions. We have a reduction of 260,000 KM per item in the BiH Presidency, a reduction of municipal services, PTT, and a team. You've got it in hand and for which you're worth it. Then the BiH Council of Ministers, down by 78,000. A reduced item of consumable material and other material costs. Then the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, a total reduction is 115,000 KM and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, with a reduction of 140,000 KM, all according to certain items. The total decrease compared to the earlier proposal we submitted was 593,000 KM. This amount, the part that has been received, is divided into the following two users, it is the BiH Parliament, which has increased the figure by 195,000 KM and is the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, with the total number coming to 1,398,000 and the sole purpose of the refugee programme, as the MPs in the previous assembly demanded. Just before the presentation of this new draft proposal, I also received amendments submitted by MP Suad Muminagić to Article 4, Article 10, Article 11, Article 12, Article 19 and Article 31. I don't think there's any fundamental change here. I think we could discuss the amendment to Article 4 and the amendment to Article 12, these amendments, as far as I could assess and partially analyse at this point, I think they would be essentially acceptable. I'm going to explain what's going on with this attitude of mine, about these two members. With Article 12, here I go, I think the MP is basically right, but there are technical interferences here. In fact, you know very well that Budget is currently in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. The fact is, the Ministry is doing those operational and technical things about the complete Budget. The fact is, and he is rightly an MP when he thought the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a report to the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on budget spending, reserves. But I also think that in the proposed text of the law, given that it was introduced as one of the control points of the BiH Council of Ministers, I think even better protection. According to the proposed text, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications should submit a report on the reserves used, that the control is being carried out by the BiH Council of Ministers and at the same time, that is to say, a report submitted to the BiH Council of Ministers and at the same time to the BiH Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly. Here is only the difference in the number of subjects to which the report is submitted. Mrs. Muminagić suggests that it should be less and that the council that submits the report is, and I personally think that, for technical reasons, it should remain as it is stated in the text although even such a proposal should not be too controversial. As for this amendment to Article 4 which Mrs Muminagić also submitted. I think we have something here that, less so, which was essentially regulated by the earlier proposal, but maybe we have an odd notion of extraordinary income. It's a big question of what we can do about it and what extraordinary incomes really are there. I'm in my own time, when we were thinking about how we were going to fit all of this, even though by some provisions, some of the rules that come from the international community, I was thinking, it doesn't add up, I was thinking about how we're going to, for example. I thought it might fit in here. Believe me, this text of the law has been harmonised several times and several times we have come really into a situation to comb it with the relevant representatives of the international community, so it does not seem to me that we should not respect amendments that go contrary to the regulations that international community representatives are acting on. I have just one more question, concerning this, Mrs. Muminagić, and this is Article 12, here it says that the last sentence is changing and it says: "The report on the expenditure of the BiH Council of Ministers' budget reserves is being submitted." As far as I can see, that should be attitude three. To change what you suggested, so am I right or am I right? The first position starts with a budget, a word budget or a pre-account. The second position begins "in use" and the third position begins the "consumption report". Is that attitude 3 or attitude 2, Mrs. Muminagić?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4967	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4968	We've got three bets here. One attitude begins with a word, so can we accept this as attitude 3? Is that okay? In your amendment is Section 3 to change? This isn't the last sentence, this is the last attitude. Here, if you could take a look.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4969	Mrs. Muminagić, you can explain that later.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4970	Okay, let's try it. Is attitude 3, then, Mrs. Muminagić? Here, let me try to absorb. As for these amendments, MP Muminagić, I think the amendment to Article 10 is acceptable, to Article 11, it is acceptable, to Article 12, provided that Article 3. Also, I think it's just a technical issue and it's acceptable as amendments to Articles 19 and 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4971	I'm opening a debate. Is there a report from the Commission?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4972	Gentlemen, co-chairs and fellow MPs, the Finance Commission and Budget at its 6th session, held on 22.3.2000, submitted the following report. After discussing the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2000, the Komsija proposes to adopt the following conclusions: 1. To explain BiH Presidency's position 2. Decisions taken at the 68th session, dated 24.2.202000, which reads. Amendments to the Budget Law, proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers, are accepted, noting that an increase in funds should not be used to increase the number of employees or personal incomes in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. 2. That the budget is not available to budget users until they deliver data and valid decisions on the basis of which they make payments and other fees. In the general part of the budget, in the item ‘total income’, point 3 of the administrative tax, not to be divided into taxes in the country and taxes in the DKPs, but administrative fees in accordance with the Law on Administrative Taxes. The Commission found that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications accepted most of the remarks and suggestions given in the debate on the Budget Draft of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000. A year. This is, in the shortest possible, the Commission's position on Budget and Finance, related to the Budget Law proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4973	Is there any need to discuss this? Any objections? Mrs. Muminagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4974	That was the conclusion. The BiH presidency is of the opinion that the administration is quite sufficient and that the personal incomes, i.e. wages, here they wrote wrong personal incomes, to pay, given the general situation that the government in BiH should not increase, even at one point there were opinions that the salaries were low and high. She had in mind only the situation that is present in BiH, as far as the entire people are concerned, I must tell the people, as regards the economic situation in which BiH is located and the social situation in which a certain part of the population is located. As for the number of employees, the BiH presidency also felt there was no need to increase the number, except for what was adopted in the last part of 1999 when increases were set and envisioned. Otherwise, I would take the opportunity to say that, as far as the Commission's conclusions are concerned, I think that all the conclusions are acceptable and we can accept them and we will install them as the Commission has proposed, as well as those amendments that Mrs Muminagić suggested earlier, and which I have already said.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4975	Thank you very much. Mrs. Muminagić, are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4976	The chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, is a small misunderstanding between Mr Ašanin and us from the Commission. We did not have a proposal representative on the Commission to explain to us what this position 2 means. Mr. Ašanin tried to interpret, however, I would draw your attention to that in point 1. The BiH Presidency's decisions say that the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2000 is being adopted, therefore this law is being passed to us for adoption, because here we have written that we have been delivered for adoption, but at the same time it is said, amendments to the Budget Act are being accepted, so I don't know, we raised that as a question. We don't know what changes to the Budget Act are accepted, when we get the text we're now pleading on, that's one thing. Secondly, it is a little illogical that one decision by the BiH Presidency calls into question the filling of the posts by the Budget user, if these jobs are, by the normative and all other acts, and if the users have the consent to fill them in, but here, to ignore it. I'm interested in this. What amendments to the Budget Law do they accept when we are sent a text that we need to make known? We couldn't clarify that on the Commission. Speaking of which, if I didn't answer again, I'd say a few words about the Budget in front of the SDP MPs' Club. We had quite an observation in the last debate, not just us, but other MPs. I must say that the preparer, not the promoter, but those who prepared the Budget Law, made an effort this time to explain it nicely and explain it well enough, to try to make some changes, that is, to accept some of our suggestions. However, the majority or essence of these suggestions, however, is not embedded in this budget, which guides us, that we cannot accept the Budget, and this is that there are quite a number of disproportionateities between Budget users, and despite the reduction in certain users, they remain disproportionate between Budget users, and our proposal was to reassess these envisaged funds and increase the item for resolving refugee issues, i.e. the implementation of our obligations to refugees that we have adopted here. There's a part of the funds increased in refugees. We believe that it could have been far more, and I could not pass on the Commission with one proposal to conclude that we are looking for a rationalisation of the organisation of all the institutions using the budget, because we believe that the organisation is too wide and that there are too many resources, especially for some users. In particular, I will say to the BiH Presidency, because the BiH Presidency, now according to what is said to be the funds, should have 74 employees, which we believe is a lot, but for all of the users, not just for the BiH Presidency, we believe that the funds should be reduced. Therefore, we are not questioning whether the salaries are high or not in these bodies, and it is not an accent, but rather an accent to reorganise and reduce the resources of the users, and to increase on these items such as the refugee programme and I could not make the amendment, because it was difficult to make an amendment without a proposal for a committee meeting, but my proposal to discuss the reorganisation, the rationalisation of the organisation and that, possibly, the Assembly is not accepted on the Commission, and then I reserve the right to retain my opinion on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4977	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who can answer that?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4978	Mrs. Muminagić, you're right, and this question you asked about the BiH presidency decision, I think an accident was made by a technical mistake. It's not the bill that's been passed here, it's the draft law, so it should be in position one. Decisions. The new draft proposal, in line with the remarks made last time by the MPs, so it's just a technical mistake, an unfortunate technical error, but your remark is in place, with me asking you to accept this now, regardless of the absolute authority of the Presidency, but to accept my interpretation that this is an attitude, to adopt the draft law on Budget institutions offered by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4979	I think we've concluded quite a debate here, so I expect we'll soon...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4980	Ladies and gentlemen, I have expressed the Commission's position on which there were no objections, but now I want to say, from the point of view of the BiH presidency, it is absolutely unserious that when discussing the draft budget they are offering not to attend the BiH Parliamentary Council meeting. Here's why I'm going to say it, because I'm assuming the MPs are going to ask for an interpretation. Article 3 The BiH presidency's decisions read: "The amount foreseen by the Budget for the work of the Border Service, which is directly under the jurisdiction of the BiH Presidency," so directly under jurisdiction. Point 1. The Border Service Act is foreseen as a special item of the Budget, outside the Ministry of Civil Affairs. If it is under the jurisdiction of the BiH presidency, then it must be financially linked to the BiH presidency and that the BiH presidency has absolute control of the spending of border service funds. I don't know if it's a political decision not to have the Border Service under the authority of either the BiH presidency or the Council of Ministers, and there's talk of an important service for BiH. I therefore propose that this amount be linked to the work of the Border Service on the bulky side of the BiH Presidency or to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so that at the end of the year we do not have any rough discussions on what is going on. It can't happen that he's under jurisdiction in a humane sense, and in a financial sense, that service hangs. I do not know what decision has affected the BiH presidency to take such a position, but I think, as an MP, it is irrational and illogical, unless there is some political intention behind this decision that I cannot figure out which one it is. I propose that this part return, in a financial sense, I do not talk about real amounts, I think they are well measured, and another thing I would like to suggest, that in the cost of separate lives and renting for staff, which are enormous in all, and in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and in the BiH Presidency and other ministries, in fact, as part of the Council of Ministers and Ministries, half the costs and transfers for work, related to refugees and displaced persons. Here's why. I think BiH is a lot of weekend politicians, people who don't know where they live or what they're doing, and that's why we have a situation in which BiH is. See, for example, the cost of living separately and renting for staff accommodation, let's say for the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 127,500 KM, and the cost of living separately and renting for staff in the BiH Presidency 181,800 KM. It seems that around the BiH presidency, the three-member BiH presidency, there are more of these following people, services that are not known who is doing what, but as far as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council and I think these irrationalities must be put into effect and that those who have actors around them, the secretary, I don't know what kind of security, must stop working like that. I stand for one half, to fuck these assets, and to go for the purposes of those who don't even know where they are, and no chance of providing any roof over their heads. I guess, those who are looking for these accommodations to have neat and finely equipped homes and, look, that's my suggestion and I don't think there's any reason not to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4981	Thank you very much. Do you have an answer to this?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4982	We're already going outside the scope of certain powers and we're going beyond what we talked about last time. This proposal, submitted by Mr Špirić, would significantly amend the proposal that the BiH presidency has set out, so I can say, that I really have the authority to do such a thing here, at this point I do not have. All this would lead to us, if we could open a new debate... I'm sorry it hasn't been delivered before. I think Mr Špirić could have delivered this before, either as an amendment or as an observation in the course of the work we had, so we would have taken care of it. But I must also ask you to pay attention that it is the end of March of the month. We had a lot of problems, and I have to tell you, since there was no Council of Ministers, that I had to take responsibility to make a decision on temporary funding. I will no longer take on such responsibility, and you know very well what March month means in our relations with the international community and according to our obligations. I think these remarks by Mr Špirić may have absolute justification, and they may not. Maybe there are some people who are really coming, very many capable people have left these spaces. Maybe it's really hard for people sometimes to find some capable people. I don't want to defend that either, I don't want to say that Mr. Špirić is absolutely right or he's not absolutely right, but don't, I'd ask you not to come, like last year, to the situation that at the last moment, that we could ever exercise some of our rights, that at the last moment we would adopt Budget and then we would do well. This budget, after all, was almost similar last year, moving in the same frames, here, now we've made some changes and I'm really appealing this time and I'm asking all MPs to have in mind a situation that could happen if we don't finish this job the way we should finish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4983	I think we've exhausted this discussion and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote, and we're going to formulate it like this, along with the amendments and with these suggestions that we've heard here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4984	There are amendments to the bill. You're going to the budget proposal now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4985	Can we accept the Budget as we decoded it here? I ask all MPs now who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? - 2 By Entity, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? From the RS, who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. A vote for Budget. I have a total number of votes here. Attending 24 - 21 votes in favour. The vote was voted by 2. Therefore, Budget was adopted. By entities. From the Federation of BiH – 11 for, 2 is against. From RS 11, yes and no one against. So this law was passed, that is, Budget was adopted. Thank you very much. Ad.6. Proposal for a law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2000, Gospođo Muminagić, do you have an objection? The question was, is this point 2 or 3? Mrs. Muminagić, the question was just whether it was point 2, as you indicated here, or point 3, so we settled it, so it's true, 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4986	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4987	I just said that, as far as Article 12 goes, that amendment is absolutely acceptable, with you being technically mistaken. We've all found, here, and the sekretarijat has found that you, in fact, are an amendment to Article 3, and not to Section 2, and that one is acceptable, and I've only just recently said that in Article 4, on your amendments to Article 4, I find them unacceptable. That's all. I think we could find a compromise here, that instead of extra income, donations stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4988	Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4989	Mr. Ašanin will rephrase the amendment which is acceptable to him and we will plead. I just want to explain why I gave the amendment. In one paragraph, "other regular and extraordinary incomes – administrative fees" is written here. When you read this, it turns out that administrative fees are extraordinary revenues. I think it's regular income, so if you're going to write other regular incomes, that's why I gave the amendment to make it clear. And as for this donation, I don't mind and I agree to add.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4990	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to, on the amendment to Article 4 where Mrs. Suada proposes that Article 4 is amended and said: “The budget revenues are the transfers of funds from the entity budget, in accordance with established rules for such transfers, administrative fees to add the words “in accordance with the Law on Administrative Taxes and the extraordinary revenue of donation lines”, this could satisfy, about, this story. On the line is a solution that would not open political debates, and I propose Article 10, where the first sentence, item one, is changed and the words "The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications implements three-month plans, revenues and expenditures, given the structure of the budget's revenue side," I suggest that instead of the word "implementation" be the word "constituting three-month income and expenditure plans". As it makes them, it is up to it to implement them, because these plans, I suppose, should warn the Council of Ministers of BiH about what the revenue and expenditure side is, because there is no Council of Ministers of BiH mechanism that can force entity governments to regularly empty their budgets towards the Budget of Joint Authorities, which is a matter of more good co-operation between entity governments and perhaps better resuscitation of joint bodies. You see, as he says, he's running three-month plans, what plans if you don't implement them, but he has to make them first. It must form a plan of the BiH Council of Ministers and they must have it and they must inform us about it, so in this sense I propose a small correction and that we vote for all these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4991	I'm quite in good faith today, and here we are, accepting these amendments as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4992	Okay, this is nice. Thank you very much. Can we close the discussion? Let's go to the vote. All the remarks and amendments that have been made here have been adopted. So I think there's nothing here to slow us down. Please, who's for the adoption of the bill on the implementation of the budget? I ask who's in, I ask all the MPs? - The law is unanimously accepted. I don't think we have any more reason to vote on entities. Of the 25 present MPs 25 for. Thank you very much. Ad.7. A draft of the BiH election law, proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club, we give the word to the ladies.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4993	Appreciated MPs and MPs, the electoral law is one of the most important laws for each country, and for BiH is particularly important. On election solutions to be incorporated into the Election Law, many will depend on the fate of the peoples and citizens of BiH and BiH. It is particularly important that such solutions are found in the Electoral Law, which will be acceptable for all three constituent peoples of BiH and its citizens. This requires a consensus on fundamental issues, but also a compromise that we must all be prepared for. I would like to remind you, the representatives of the HDZ of BiH have actively and constructively set themselves up in the past stages, related to the proposed draft of the OSCE electoral law and the proposings of Mr Ljubičić, noting its good solutions, but also responsible, objectively and correctly, and possibly negativity, and making their remarks and concrete proposals. At the same time, we worked on our own draft of the electoral law, which we did not give in the procedure, expecting that for justified and rational views and suggestions would be heard and would be incorporated into the proposed OSCE Draft. We know what it was like with this law, and that's why HDZ submitted his proposal, or draft election law, to consider this high house. The draft HDZ election law rests on constitutional solutions and follows the experience of advanced, democratic countries, respecting our reality. The proposed decentralised electoral system, which regulates electoral principles and elections at BiH level for executive and legislative power for that level, for the Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the rest leaves to entity laws, as detailed in the explanation attached to the draft election law. A number of provisions, to conduct the elections in this draft, have been taken over by the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission or the draft of the BiH Election Law, which was proposed by the OSCE, Mr Drago Ljubičić. These are provisions that are procedural and usually standirized and which have been in the practice of holding elections in BiH since '96. - '98. the years have shown acceptable, such as registration and candidateing for elections, election implementation, protection of election rules, rights, rules of conduct for political parties, coalitions and independent candidates, media, electoral observers, etc. I want to believe that the representatives of this high house will find enough political wisdom and the necessary compromise to adopt such solutions in the electoral law, which will rest on constitutional solutions and respect bh. political and any other reality that will not be threatened by constitutional and sovereign rights, the rights of the people of BiH. A particularly fundamental democratic right for every nation to choose its authentic representatives in the authorities, without being able to influence or impose elections in the form of democratically expressed will. This draft HDZ election law is certainly a good basis for the adoption of such a law and I therefore expect your support.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4994	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4995	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in connection with this draft election law proposed by the HDZ Club, I would point out, above all, that the MPs from the RS had accepted the version proposed by the OHR, with certain remarks, as a starting point for further work until the bill was received. Unfortunately, his fate was as it is, here, we now have today's draft election law, which was proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club, and I will be free to say a few of my observations and seeing this draft. In any case, it is about the draft electoral law, which can serve as a starting point for the drafting of the BiH election law proposal. I say this as an MP for the Radical Party of RS, for the simple reason that the draft electoral law contains the most basic things that are acceptable, in my deep opinion, and for all other political options, i.e. for the largest, broadest circle of BiH citizens. Since it included principles which, and I think the previous debater particularly apostropheed, certain principles containing the draft electoral law proposed by Drago Ljubičić as an official promoter. Here, above all, he would also refer to article 5 of this draft electoral law, which fully guarantees the best way of voting rights of every adult BiH citizen. In particular, the provisions of Article 121 relating to the BiH Presidency, i.e. the choice of members of the BiH presidency, are particularly important here, I would also underline the specific provisions which have been developed in Article 128, which relate to the election of the Council of People of the Parliament of BiH, in which way they are chosen and interesting and the provisions in Article 168 that speak of the Brcko District. Therefore, I would no longer owe it, given that there will be opportunities for further discussions on this draft, but my deep opinion that this draft draft draft draft draft could serve as a starting point for the draft electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4996	Thank you very much, Mr. Deretić. There's no further discussion. Can we close the discussion? Here, we conclude the debate and put this proposal to the vote, namely the draft electoral law. I'm asking all the MPs now, who's in favour of this draft? Who's in? Who's against it? By entities, we'll hold the vote until the end, so regardless, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? From the RS, who's in? Who's against it? The vote is over. Does anyone have any objections to the vote? You'll hear the results now. The total is 22. The vote was 13 – 8. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, 5 voted in favour – 7. From the RS for 8 – v 1 This law is going to agree because it did not get most of the entities. He's going on a date. Ad.8. The BiH Presidency's information on the implementation of BiH's commitments to the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe In front of the BiH presidency should be referred here. Hello? Mr. Kasim Trnka was announced. Please wait until we see that Mr. Prlić is not in charge. There he is. He's here. Jadranko, Information from the BiH Presidency, can you give it to us? You're not, then, authorized.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4997	Ladies and gentlemen, here is the home and general public, and especially the international community, I would like to draw attention to the behaviour of members of the Presidency, when it comes to key things for BiH. This is not the first time that the Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council with serious points concerning BiH's fate, that the distinguished gentlemen are not worthy to come or to be in charge of a reference. That is why I propose that this item be removed from the agenda and that the College of Representatives be tasked with holding talks with the BiH Presidency, so that they do not, in future, unnecessarily burden the agenda with points for which they do not wish to refer to the MPs. It's not the first time we've said it's an accident, but people don't want to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4998	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, as I have announced, you have been distributed material called the Stability Pact for South East Europe, and it is related to the Regional Conference on Financial Support, which is being held on 29 and 30 this month. The BiH presidency discussed one piece of information on the realisation of the Stability Pact, and this information was accepted and that information was delivered to you earlier in the materials. I was at that session of the BiH presidency and in a certain way it was said to help, to inform you of what has been done so far in all this. I don't think I would have spoken for long, I think that there is, more in the information, as there has been a total procedure, as there has been a process of running for the projects, that everyone has had the right to run for projects, that the appointed coordinators, the head of the Stability Pact together with the three sub-tables, that we have successfully organised the Regional Security Table in Sarajevo, that we have fulfilled the relevant activities when it comes to the Stability Pact, with the need to bear in mind that a significant lack was the lack of an adequate structure that could in a much more efficient way achieve the coordination of all activities. In fact, the Pact coordinator and the man in charge of the economy are people who are abroad and very difficult to coordinate all these activities, so most of the work actually fell to people who are employed at the Foreign Ministry, who can't do the whole part of the job. However, no matter what, I appreciate that the total engagement of our delegations at these meetings, except for one in Skopje that two representatives did not go to because of some religious holidays, that we mainly had an active relationship with all initiatives within the Stability Pact and these initiatives were counted both in the first and second materials. I will repeat this, and it also says in a letter sent by Mr. Homba's three BiH presidency members, that at this point the total amount of 1.54 billion euros, which is likely to increase by 200m euros for refugees, and it may be further increased by the end of the week, perhaps up to 2 billion, and will be broadcast on the Mebu Stability Pact, possibly on Friday or Saturday. The BiH presidency has set up a delegation containing: Foreign Minister, Foreign Minister and representatives of both entities, which should participate in a two-day conference held on 29 and 30. It is not the classic donor conference BiH has had so far. Here we are actually expected, not my method of meddling in working methods, but I think the whole story with translators and people who came from abroad to help us work, in fact, creates all the time noise and it's very difficult to achieve a proper concentration in work. I think there is a different method of work to be found and to translate people who want to monitor the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. I don't think any parliament in the world works like this, if I can say it as a humble minister, as a remark, and a former representative. The part envisions that BiH participates in the total funds and is expected to be confirmed by 420m euros, it is mainly major infrastructure projects. The first of these infrastructure projects will be contracts signed tomorrow, when a European Investment Bank delegation comes to BiH, is a project to build roads in BiH, a bridge in Capljina, roads in RS, a section related to the Shamac-sea highway near Sarajevo. The rest, most of the funds concern energy projects financed by the European Bank's loan. In a series of projects that are listed here, depending on the work table, I want to highlight a special project relating to the employment of demobilised military personnel, in fact, BiH had the most concrete initiative when it comes to the Stability Pact, and in particular this security section, and it is about reducing both the effectiveness and the financial resources by 15% last year and announcing 15% for this year. It provides for assistance in the employment of 26 million dollars, which should be realised through the World Bank's loan until... this year with certain and additional donations, demining etc. along with these other projects that were said here. Our delegation, and this is also a proposal to the BiH presidency, should actually come forward with a specific programme of economic reforms that have been implemented and that are to be implemented in BiH. It lowers our macroeconomic situation, in fact, is the realization of our stand by arrangement with the IMF. The second annual report has just been successfully carried out, as referred to in Article 4. The agreement with the IMF, which stressed that BiH has managed to reduce macroeconomic imbalances... the accepted currency, has managed to reduce the inflation rate to a single-digit number, progress has been made in the area of economic reform. The privatisation process is on its way, the truth is slow. BiH currently has the smallest share of the private sector in the social gross product, only 35%, otherwise it is already more than 60% in the region. The Single Customs Tariff Act adopted by this Parliament and finally applies, and this has been a controversial issue spoken by MP Lagumdžija, also achieved harmonisation of the tax systems between the two entities and it should, in fact, be published these days in the Official Journal and be applied as a whole. Our delegation should come up with other measures to be taken in the next year, or 18 months, including very important structural reforms, and when it comes to fiscal management and, above all, about encouraging employment in BiH. The key thesis that we will present on that occasion, we have just co-ordinated certain measures with regard to this, is to help overcome the issue of unemployment in BiH. It is actually a question that breaks all possible results that BiH can achieve. Our registered and unregistered unemployment is more than 50%. Under these conditions, it is not possible to achieve any social and economic objective. These 50% of people under conditions of lack of adequate social networks are left to themselves, crime, corruption, organised crime and all other ways left to them, so that they can simply feed themselves and their families and those they care about, considering that their parents, probably, are talking about some middle-aged families, have low pensions and can in fact be very difficult to ensure survival in the given conditions. The basis of our programme will be the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of a new business framework in BiH. Also, our advances will include measures taken in the fight against corruption, which, in fact, threatens to challenge all measures of economic reform in BiH, corruption from the highest to the lowest level affecting economic development in BiH, especially the efforts of small and medium-sized enterprises, but also affects this poorest part of the BiH population. We will address the issues of resolving the growing poverty and increasing income distribution differences in BiH, i.e. the growing difference between those with the highest income and those with the lowest income in BiH. This corruption, above all, affects those with the lowest incomes, because today most of the services that are obtained in the public sector, including health care and others, in fact, more or less, in a certain way, implies bribery, bribery, etc. The anti-corruption measures, in fact, form the basis that any measure of economic policy could produce an appropriate result in BiH. We will, in fact, go with what we offer and what we, as institutions, can accomplish. I said in the beginning, that we would have credibility at that stage, two things were extremely important. With these two things we can also achieve some important goals, not only foreign policies, but also the goals that all of us, those who are sitting in this Chamber have, which is our membership in the Council of Europe and the acceleration of our relations with the EU. You know what situation we will be in a delegation if there is still no Council of Ministers at the moment when a donor conference is held. Some Council of Ministers may consider it a government or not, but it is an executive body without which the unimaginable functioning of any modern state under today's conditions is unimaginable. The second question, this morning, was made clear to me by the representatives of the European Union, is the issue of electoral law. With the passed electoral law, and any version of the electoral law, any electoral law that is acceptable to the MPs. It is not true that the international community is asking for a certain law to be adopted. Any law that is acceptable to MPs is considered to confirm the willingness of this Parliament to function and to submit its share of responsibility. With these two things, we could actually create a certain moment and move faster with the realization of all these measures that are actually in the documents that are prepared for the donor conference. Of course, on these two issues you have already given, in the following way, your position in the debate so far, and if it were resolved, it would actually open up new opportunities for us in relations with the EU. I have just received a request to meet on Tuesday afternoon with the European Union's three foreign ministers, Portugal's current foreign ministers, and France, which is 1.7, Solana and Kris Paten, with BiH's foreign ministers and two prime ministers in BiH, over bilateral relations between the EU and BiH. We, thanks to our insistence, have come to a very clear order of activities that are contained in the so-called “. ” the road map, a material containing 18 measures that should be achieved or achieved in a certain way in order to put into place a similarity study and start negotiations on the first phase of contractual relations with the EU, is a Stabilisation Association Agreement. We will make this programme of implementation of these 18 measures in the next week, deliver it to the BiH Presidency and entities, as one significant part of these commitments applies to entities, and then to this House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so that the realisation of that road map, or plan of activity, is the basis of our work in the next few months in BiH. If we confirm some shifts in this, we can attach to a train that is already passing by us. In my first address, I said that all the countries in the region, except for the SRJ in the situation in which it is, actually already catch their connection when it comes to integration with the EU, and Bulgaria and Romania and Macedonia, here is Albania, Croatia in the middle of this year, we are actually staying nowhere. I think that message was very important to you in the beginning, it's part of my job and this time, when we talk about our preparations for this meeting. Otherwise, the Stability Pact has three objectives. The first goal is domestic reform, in every country, and in democracy and security, and economic reform, on the one hand, the other is to increase regional co-operation, we have in this respect referred to all countries a request for agreements on customs cooperation, we have established a platform and we are ready to start talks on liberalisation, on trade with all countries in the region. These negotiations have already started with Croatia, they are leaving with Macedonia soon, and we are ready with the others. We have accepted an investment... that regulates the obligations of all countries, when it comes to creating favourable conditions for foreign direct investment and we have become part of the overall initiatives in the fight against corruption across the region, that is regional co-operation. And the third element of importance in the Stability Pact, which is necessary for these first two to produce a proper result, is the approximation and integration of the countries of the region into the European Union's integration queen, represented today by the EU. These are the basic three objectives of the Stability Pact and through these brief notes, the documents you had before, I think you have enough elements to be able to conduct a competent debate, that's one thing, and the other to accept your own responsibility. In fact, at this point, the ball is on this parliament. I can't say as foreign minister whether any home has been adopted or not. We are interested in whether the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH has been adopted and whether the Council of Ministers of BiH is working. Did this home say this, did it say any Bosniak majority party, one or she, multiethnic, that's an irrelevant issue inside. It is important that the Electoral Law pass in this House. If we make these two shifts, I am absolutely sure that, regardless of this nervous state and pre-election weather, it is possible to make up for the shifts, because these 6 months or 9 months to new elections, or a year, who knows how long it will be, can be a period that will later be very difficult to make up for when it comes to economic reforms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u4999	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I have a couple here, Mr. Minister, whether you have exhausted your report here for point 9 or not, because here, as far as I can see, you should refer to us and point 9. An innovative report on meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. Okay. Thank you. Then, in that context, we have, as far as these remarks are concerned, our translators really don't mind us, they're not an obstacle, but vice versa, welcome us, but indiscipline in our ranks, what I'm personally interested in and what I'm attaching to, but hopefully we'll have the means to solve more quality and this part of translation. Secondly, on Mr Špirić's proposal, which I personally agree with, if that means anything, I have information from the BiH presidency here, and in the chapter of the Information, and that information is being sent to us by the Foreign Ministry, which Mr Prlić has now explained to us. Therefore, I believe that there is a contingent proposal here to refer to the BiH presidency such a single appeal or objection, let's say, if we have this right, and to take this report to the knowledge, because we do not have about it, we can neither adopt it nor reject it, this is the Report. So, as such, and now it's valid, if Mr. Prlić explained it to us. So, Mr. Špirić, are you satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5000	I thank Mr Prlić for the exhaustive exposure, and I think he has always shown his willingness to inform this parliament out of his jurisdiction, but, please, the situation is not so unserious that the BiH presidency would not be serious either. It would be good if the BiH Presidency could manage to come forward of this parliament within at least two or three months and say what it is of these three conditions, related to the South East European Pact, filled with domestic reforms, regional co-operation, convergence with integration into the European Union, to inform us what has been done by the BiH Presidency's authority, what the international community in diplomatic contacts with them expects of this parliament. We have a three-member BiH presidency, which can call and engage in dialogue with one another, only one of the international community's top representatives. We have a criminal expedition for BiH, woven in the BiH presidency members, and I say, I do not think that we have discussed this information, and the BiH Presidency should explain to the representatives of the international community why it is unable to open, say, one dialogue with its own parliament, or the international community has skillfully isolated members of the BiH presidency, so that it can manipulate them in a way that, unfortunately, it manipulates in certain cases. I thank Mr. Prlić. This information, as far as I'm concerned, has not been discussed, until someone has submitted, orally or in writing, from the cabinets of the BiH presidency, and it would be good if it were members of the BiH presidency, because the situation is serious, it concerns not the BiH presidency's office, but the members of the BiH presidency. This Mr. Prlić's exposure can best be related to this point 9 and I don't think there's any need to repeat it, and I think we can move to point 9.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5001	We're going, here we go, right on Mr. Špirić's suggestion to point 9. Ad.9. An innovative report on meeting the conditions for BiH's admission to Ve Mr Prlic, is there any reason?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5002	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, we have point 8 which has been designated as the BiH Presidency's Information on the implementation of the Stability Pact commitments to Southeast Europe. 1. We received information from the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5003	Have you read it, MP?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5004	What did I read?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5005	So it's written by the State Department. I know what I've read, but just to distract.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5006	There's been a clean mistake here, please. Our agenda includes Information from the BiH Presidency, and we have received Information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I think that's what we're absorbing this point for, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5007	It's not about whether or not we're over it. One question has been asked in the presentation of Mr Prlić, which is very precise. From this fact that we asked for information from the BiH presidency last year, that Mr. Martin Raguž had come out twice and said that this information would arrive on the agenda and that, of course, the BiH Presidency would be engaged in this information in writing and oral terms. We have now received one additional piece of information, except for this assistant minister and minister himself, orally, and this unsigned by the ministry, which is talking about an upcoming conference that will be next week. It's all right. That information is correct, with only one wrong. This information is not at all on the agenda that Mr Prlić has now submitted, and it is a pity that it is not on the agenda, because if we had discussed our obligations in January, the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, the BiH Parliament, which stemming from the Stability Pact in Southeast Europe, it would probably, normally, in January or February, at the latest, be the information Mr Prlić has now submitted to us, and it would not be a week before this conference is held, and we have received this information on the table today, is that right, Mr Prlić, we have now received this information? This conference is scheduled for March 29th and 30th. All this information we have now is very useful and correct and we should accept this as information, we can't change what was done, what was done is done, and what was prepared, as a delegation that was announced here, has her list, too, is a delegation that will go there. I want to remind you of something. Over the past six months, since June and not quite six, I don't know how many, 9, except for representatives of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State, at various meetings on the Stability Pact, the Eastern and Parliamentary delegations, regionally, bilaterally and even wider European multilateral meetings. I must say that today we have adopted an initiative, which was given by MP Lagumdžija to speak more closely in the context of these issues and some obligations and co-operation with financial institutions. But the way things are now, when we ask for information from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we usually get information, it needs to be correct, and from the moment we have in our resolution, to this day, we have always had precise information. When we finally asked for information for some projects, visions for economic and social policy, we finally got, here, I think you'll all get this information from Mr. Kurtović these days. We now have one state in which ministers are reporting on their work in which the BiH Council of Ministers has fully taken over the BiH Presidency and I am curious whether we have come to the situation that the BiH Presidency has taken over the role of the BiH Council of Ministers and the government and that this has now become our rapporteurs. We have advisors who were Trnka, Raguž and I don't know who else was third. I don't remember seeing all three of them at once, it could be. We have ministers now directly responsible for the BiH presidency and they perform on behalf of the BiH presidency and two prime ministers of the two entities. It's one situation that's unsustainable. I thought that jobs, a request for information, which we received with several months of delays, get here, really, one address from the BiH presidency and which is correct, and it was promised here for this speaker, twice precisely, publicly. On the other hand, if we have received this information from Mr Prlić today, it is correct that we are merely saying that we have received what has already been prepared by the Foreign Ministry and the Presidency of BiH for the Brussels Conference next week, but from these information provided by Mr Prlić there is one central defect in this whole Stability Pact business both in connection with our Resolution and with the document adopted at both homes. That fact, we warned about it. There is no co-ordination between the BiH Parliament, the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, this is the first drawback. The other lack of personality, no institution, no, as I would say, the Interminister Council, are neither the three ministers connected or how many of them are already in the BiH Council of Ministers to work on this job. There is no one directly responsible for working on the BiH Council of Ministers' Stability Pact. I'm asking to ensure two remarks. 1. I'm asking us to come out of this in a special way. That we should really ask the BiH Presidency to return to the original agreement in the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers on the issues of European integration, entry into the Stability Pact, the obligations that arise, give jurisdiction to the people who should do so in the BiH Council of Ministers. Re-confirmation of what we had with Slovenac, experience when they were on a bilateral visit. It cannot be done without the Minister for European Affairs and without the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and there is no such government that will be able to handle this. Please, in the conclusions of the BiH presidency, do not wear only this, whether we adopted or did not adopt the information. We must ensure, as Parliament, the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, that someone is doing this job and informs us tomorrow about this job. This turns out to be the transfer of the ball between the ministers, the BiH presidency and the parliament itself, it cannot pass anymore. The earth sinks deeper and deeper and I pray that it be taken to the knowledge.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5008	Please, first of all, we don't have a quorum, we can talk here informally, and yet this is the information that we get, in that context, here I'm just notifying that we don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5009	Mr. Skopljak, I thank you for giving me your word. I just want to get from this phone booth to find out that the public and that the rest of us just know a few things. We got, in a different form, information, which is really very large, the one that we got today, which is shared with us. I remind you of the information we have also received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 25.2. this year, which discusses what projects are proposed under the Stability Pact, on the second round table in Skopje on 10 and 11.2.2000 on behalf of BiH. I just want it to be known, so you don't ask where and what happened afterwards. Let us start by assuming that our state delegation, for which I have no objection to it being in this form and should be, because these people are the most responsible for this country, the delegation will consist of members of the BiH Presidency, or foreign trade ministers, the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, the finance minister and the support of a delegation in such and such form. The BiH presidency does not go to a donor meeting for the simple reason that the donor meeting is on the ministerial level, and otherwise they would have gone, if not at the ministerial level, probably, but since the meeting in Brussels is on the ministerial level, it is logical that Minister Prlić runs the delegation and that the delegation also has the foreign trade minister, which I have seen here, representatives of two entities that are normally legitimate and that is good. But the question arises, what if by any chance in Brussels they say, okay, gentlemen, you got 420m euros. My question is, who said these were these projects? On behalf of BiH, I repeat, on behalf of BiH, to a delegation composed of Jugoslav's Jovičić, Mehmed Dujso and Dragiša Mekić, whoever they are. I have no doubt that they have done their job, they have, among other things, asked on behalf of BiH to build the Svilaj-Zenica-Sarajevo-Mostar-Doljani highway for 3.5 billion euros. That, if I understand correctly, is a road that goes up from Sava and goes down to Zenica, leaves it on the left side of Banja Luka, leaves it on the right side of Tuzla and then comes directly to Zenica and continues down towards the Doljan, which I do not dispute that it should, I do not even dispute that one day it will be done and it will be good to do. But the question arises, who on behalf of BiH asked 3.5 billion euros for the road? Then, here we see that this road is Bosnia Gradiška, Serbia's Gradiška, Banja Luka, no less or less costing 402m euros. That's what we were looking for. Mr. Jovičić, Dujso and Mekić must have been looking for it in someone's name. Then don't let me pick up everything they've been looking for on our behalf. Now somebody's been saying to us, we're going to get 420 euros, so more when you add up the projects that we've been granted, that's 402 euros, not 420. Now we can outwit whether it's a mistake or, in fact, it's about these two projects that have no price, that they're going to cost 18 million, although it's unclear whether 18 million, etc. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I want you to know today, before people leave, who decided which projects? Who set it? Who owes the country, and assuming it's money they don't owe, and keeping in mind that the good part of the funds here is the borrowing of future generations. Come on, assuming it's free, give us someone like that. Assuming someone wants to give us 3.5 billion euros for the road, who determined where that road was going? If that's settled, we'll let you go to the bridge in Capljina, and you let us go 30km through Gradiška, and we'll fix the signalling near Sarajevo, who agreed? Let us be told here. Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with this kind of approach, we're not going anywhere. On that list of 27 countries, where we are 25, we're going to be 27, and then they're going to start making tables without us. It can't be like this. He can't. I suggest, Mr. Skopljak, I won't go on, I can speak on this subject, I'm saying this because this is why whoever is desperate, for this speaker, in this House, it can't be done like this, people will go there and get money on our behalf. They've already shared. Who did this? If the people of the ruling structures agreed to it among themselves, let them say where it was arranged? On what grounds? How? Guys, this has nothing to do with national interests or two entities or two peoples anymore. This has to do with someone making four million fools in this country in this way. I know these are hard words, but it's a hard word to look for in a three-member delegation 3.5 billion for the road that someone drew somewhere. Is it going where you came from, Mr. Skopljak, you don't know that, quite naturally, and you're the president of parliament. Mr. Banjac was up until yesterday, when this went down. Do you know about this, Mr. Banjac? I'm not going to ask Mr. Genjac. Look, guys, what's the matter? Guys, this can't be right. I suggest we make a deal, forget the entity story and everything, it stands. This is a country of one state, two entities, three equal peoples, equal and four million people, who make fools. Nobody slows it down. I suggest you bring it in, think about it, don't vote on it now, please, there's no quorum and we will. Think about it, gentlemen of the College. I suggest that a parliamentary commission be formed, through which it will pass, as through a filter, projects in whose name the country is in debt, stemming from the Stability Pact, from a donor conference, which will not be as we planned, if a miracle does not happen and who is in black howling. I suggest you think about it. Please, those of you who lead, let me put it this way, some of the delegations that form here, think about it. To create some commission in which it will be, it may even be a joint committee of the House of Peoples and this, to include parliamentary representatives from the entity. Make a model one, but it can't be so that two entity prime ministers sit down and agree on it and then find, eventually, a minister who will cover them on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers can't do that. No country on the planet can do that. It has nothing to do with anything else. That's why I'm asking you all to think about this. It will be a session where the BiH Presidency, if Bog gives us good luck, we adopted it today, I remind you, that conclusion that I thank you for having respected it, that the BiH Presidency prepares information on the preparations for BiH, for the new donor cycle and the implementation of the Stability Pact projects in light of relations with international financial organisations. Here, when we discuss this, let someone draw up the conclusions they're talking about. What is the mechanism of how projects are accepted? Who can, with what they can, these three men were looking for projects in Skopje. When you add it up, these are billions of people who have a headache. There are more billions here than we've been given from Dayton to this day. When you see what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent us today, you see here that they are adopted here, there are no adopted projects that are neither wanted nor in Skopje. Careful, it is not requested in Skopje, among the five billion, and suddenly adopted at 400 million. I mean, I couldn't believe this. I watched several times, I looked for colleagues, if they had the same, if I hadn't gotten some fake copy. It says here that in the Stability Pact, no one is going to argue that we need to rehabilitate the heating system, I'm not slowing down, we should be safe and God Bog we get it right away tomorrow. It says here that the reconstruction of hydro and thermal power plants is approved, which way. I believe someone made a deal. It says gas pipeline, connection to the network in R. Hrvatska bar, the amount is not indicated. Watch out, what are we talking about? We're discussing things here, the story we're doing here, it's got nothing to do with anything. The only serious story is this. So I beg you, I apologize for using the time, in the absence of quorum, but I suppose we all understand that these are issues that we need to think a little differently and I suggest that we wish this, to wish Mr. Minister, to respect all of this and to schedule parliament on this subject after the municipal elections. To spare ourselves and doubt whether this is part of a pre-election campaign. This is so boring, this definitely doesn't carry any television anymore. That's why you don't need to worry. The press fell asleep a long time ago. Half of them are gone, so they won't carry this. So I ask you to agree to prepare a session with this conclusion, that the BiH Presidency commits itself after the election, to prepare a parliament in which a thorough two competent ministers would prepare a report on this, and then a little chronology, to answer some of these questions and then, that votes will be counted, elections are new in six months, so maybe we will talk seriously. That's my suggestion, Mr. Skopljak, and I apologize again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5010	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5011	Madam Chairman, I would only like to underline here once again the fact that we are absolutely sitting here, I have watched, for 40 minutes, and we have no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5012	Maybe right now, but back a few minutes, we didn't have a quorum. I'd just like to point to two things. The first thing, all of us, in the way we treat Parliament, as the highest legislative body, are showing, in fact, this coming and going, how much we care about working in this highest legislative body. Mr. Chairman, I even, look, I'm free to say, I think of all my fellow Members as far away from Sarajevo, I was only once, when I was on vacation, away, and I apologized. I ask that in the future, first, always be determined when someone leaves, to report, to closely monitor whether we have a quorum and the moment there is no quorum, to break off the work of the Representative Council, that's one thing. Another thing, please, is that there would be no imputations, very malicious, some colleagues that this speaker serves as some kind of pre-election campaign, etc. and those who have discussed it this way today, they are not present, because they went to a pre-election campaign, because it is an obstacle to them, obviously, but to make decisions here today that are vital for all of BiH. Therefore, I ask you and suggest that in any case the next session will not be held until the elections have passed. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5014	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable BiH Presidency, I have come to the floor to say something about Mr Lagumdžija's presentation. Entities and what happens in certain entity bodies have done a lot of things, and even a public debate has been conducted. A development project in the area of production and transmission of electricity was developed in RS by 2030 at a public hearing, the project has long been.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5015	I have to mention again that we don't have a quorum, just so you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5016	The RS assembly adopted such a single project, based on which demands are submitted and financial structures are formed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5017	Here we go again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5018	In the area of production and transmission of electricity there are long-term plans, identified priorities, and is working on providing a financial structure for the implementation of such a plan. Also, in the area of traffic and communication, you know that certain global agencies are working on a master traffic development plan, that this contract is signed and that this work will be done in a professional way that will be adopted by the relevant authorities and determine some dynamics of the task. It is also clear that rail lines 5 and 10 have been declared corridors that will be included in European railways and that some plans are being made, etc. I don't want to talk about other things anymore. So many things are done or done. It is only now a matter of what is our priority, what will bring more national income to this country and how individual investments will return to this country in order to be more employed, etc. Therefore, I am not so that we form some parallel parliamentary groups that will better control or be responsible for certain projects that are suited to those who should be responsible for it. I fully agree with my colleagues that a completely different approach should have been on this information and on what should be BiH's priorities, so that only then should I say the priorities of one or another entity so that a coherent development of BiH could be achieved and fit into certain European and global movements that are clearly outlined at the moment. I think that this information, like this, should be accepted, in the end we will not even vote on it, it is as information, but we should, on the basis of certain things, learn certain lessons and have certain measures where BiH should go forward in general in the area of further development and measures of the strategy.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5019	According to information, is it quorum now, do we have or do we not?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5020	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mean to call again, but I'm not a man who has an aversion to any political option and a group that discusses the development of BiH, so I don't often agree with what Mr Lagumdžija says, I don't often agree with any other Members who talk, and I don't think his story was right. Projects concerning BiH must, therefore, be related to the coherent development of its entities and BiH as a whole, we must not slave for certain schemes, which can be politicised, to be faced somewhere. The international community can't know what's good for us. Whether, I did not understand Zlatko, that he proposed some parliamentary control committee, but I think that what is done for the RS and the Federation of BiH must also be publicly, publicly controlled, based on public projects of BiH and its entities. Here, when I have to add the word entity, and we know it's in line with Dejton that public corporations are, say, at BiH level, and that's why I think we need to talk about everything openly, without complexes. I do not have a complex of BiH as a state or a complex of its entities, but we must once enter an active phase, discussing projects concerning BiH. A path that passes through BiH, therefore, attaches both entities, must be a project that is somewhere agreed and cannot be made by two people in the interests of the people and the state, or three or five, to decide on such projects. I agree that there are international institutions that observe the work, that help in the work, that contribute to some projects being properly done, but I cannot decide, or, if I can, to disband Parliament and that we do not have such discussions, that is, in that sense. I think the proposal is good and that such different information cannot be a basis for BiH's successful and happy development.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5021	Dear colleagues, it seems to me that in Parliament, for a long time, one piece of information has not provoked a more contentious debate and, I would say, has not shown more clearly, in fact, the state in which this Parliament works and the way it works. Please, Parliament should approve loans, it should approve credit terms, it should, in a certain way, be a cap of all these activities, and we in parliament have not discussed what we will be saying tomorrow when it comes to these loans, etc., at least when it comes to this part of the credit fund, that I am not talking about part of the donor funds, although we should discuss it. We will ask the SDP here to consider a list of priority projects, candidates for financial support in the Stability Pact, we will ask for it. It'll probably be our condition to agree to continue this session if we don't finish tonight. We also believe that we should have a well-developed and adopted methodology for forming a list of priorities here in Parliament. I'm not going to any kind of unitation. It may be an agreement for entity parliaments to make a statement and for us to verify it, and that's not the problem, if that's what we agree on, so be it. But we don't have any methodology right now, and we have no idea which bodies accepted this as a priority. We can probably get data on who's personal, or, I'd say, by function it's arranged, etc. But what are the bodies that decide in this country to lend this country to a few billion in the coming period and to owe to future generations? In my opinion, this is an unserious approach and, in my opinion, this Parliament, this way, should not be missed. In our debate, all these priorities can be reaffirmed, we are not talking about any single project, not a single title. We're talking about procedures and methodologies as they occur.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5022	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to give some explanations, because I don't think we've understood a few things. Carefully, in the preparation of donor, regional conferences, the international community, in particular the EU and the World Bank, wanted to know what governments, what countries belonging to the region consider priority projects, which would improve co-operation between the countries of the region. The first meeting was in Bari, where it is said, give all the projects, that is what we often talk about, whether we have projects that can be of common interest not only to BiH, but also to the wider, for more successful co-operation in the region. Of course, the group that is constantly mentioned here has gone and presented projects, not in the sense that these projects are said to be adopted, or that they have to be adopted, etc. but collected projects that BiH has in mind, of course, and the fact that Europe, including BiH, is the priority corridor number V, which is mentioned here with a 3.5 billion-euro figure. On the second table in Skopje, a certain analysis and discussion was made, based on the projects originally proposed, certain criteria that the Stability Pact, or the group that prepares the donor conference, have made, whether or not they fit. There are projects mentioned here that are already being addressed to the international community that are not regional, such as. local heat, local plumbing and they can't be the element of the debate at a donor conference at all. Based on the projects that have been made, based on the country-specific commitment, the international community is going with certain funds, whether they will be spent on these projects or not, that is a big question. So BiH fits into some 420m-euro indicative funds, which the projects will choose to implement with these funds, is still completely uncertain. When a project is discussed specifically, when it is approved, you know what the procedure is. If it is a grant, then whoever the donor has the right to influence where they will spend and how the funds, and if the loan, then, according to the Foreign Debt Act, both entities declare on the credit arrangement, when they give their consent, then that agreement and the complete agreement comes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and it approves of the task, it will also be in this case. Here, so the funds that have been granted, 420 million, are neither a debt nor a loan is known whether it's a loan or whether it's a donation. The structure of the funds will likely be determined in relation to what we do and the international community's definitions of whether BiH will help to accept one project or another through this donor conference, as a element of development, and all in order to facilitate regional integration. So what is offered are some of the possible projects, not certain projects, not projects that are definitely going, but some proposals, and the international community considers them possible and potential projects, but not yet approved.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5023	Please count on us working until 6:00, count on us to have a few more points that, if you're willing, we can absorb, if we don't, then we'll let you know at the next session when we have a follow-up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5024	Mr. Chairman, in some ways I think I owe it to a particular replica minister because, either we haven't figured it out or we're talking about different things. You've explained the project approval methodology and it's not controversial and I haven't even discussed it, I don't think the others have. We've been here all along talking about who approved that this list that's there be a list of priorities that will be offered to donors and creditors. So, about the further procedure, whether, which, and in what way some of these projects will be approved, how it will be financed, credit, donor, etc., at this point, it's not at all controversial and I said all these projects can be exactly what the priorities are and I won't even doubt it. However, a fundamental question is raised about the methodology of coming to the list of precisely these or some other projects, which are running ahead of this country to international institutions and that is what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5025	Just one precise question. I made it quite clear that our decision, both home of the BiH Parliament, was supported by the BiH Council of Ministers at the time, that it was necessary to achieve coordination, I don't know what month it was, it wasn't important, it was May or June or September when we agreed that full coordination would be in connection with monitoring the preparation and implementation of the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe. 1. These coordinations, this Parliament should establish, on the basis of its conclusion, its resolution, this debate shows. Seven days before the Brussels conference, we find out from the newspapers, and, here, now written information from the foreign ministry's representatives what this is essentially about. That's not correct for a single body. On the other hand, we said very precisely that we are asking that there is coordination in the government among ministers, I remember it well, and that the BiH Presidency is not getting involved so much in these affairs, that we simply get this relationship of strength we have. Two things were launched by Mr Prlić at the end and said: “Lords, the key issue is unemployment and a constant increase in the number of unemployed, income per capita and social policy”, we certainly know, and of course, corruption, social differences, a breakdown in society. I'm asking myself a question now. If we, as a parliament, as a legislative body need to pass laws, we need to assume obligations for the future, we need to know what these projects produce, our participation in regional co-operation. Whether to reduce the number of unemployed, who they are hiring, which projects, at what time, and which is why I felt it was important what we got, at least as a sign, the BiH Development Draft from 2000 to 2004, at the economic level and social level, and that was the general agreement in both houses of the BiH Parliament. I thought we couldn't talk about trees all the time, not the woods. It's important to me that we get out of this this way. We can really want this delegation to do the best it can and that's fine, and if there are more aspirations, to win them over some projects, but the key is how to respond to these needs of BiH. This is about regional co-operation and it is normal to show problems that within our country we have no mechanisms, that we have overcome our internal obstacles and that is the problem and the problem is that we have no quantification of what the consequences of economic, and for a quick start both for reforms and for unemployment and for social care to those who remain on the margin and who are simply constantly poor. If these projects will enable very precise economic strategy, in the Quick Start Project, a certain degree of employment, adequate protection of social, guarantee for people, normally we will continue to open up and cooperate more quickly on the regional plan with others. If there is no projection, then there is talk of the following, there is no, and that is quite clear, in BiH the future if we do not make the government and the Council of Ministers of BiH and I must now say, we should break up with political governments and these games. A pure expert government should be made responsible for the future of this country. If it seems to someone that in six months everything will change, okay, let it change, but we are sitting in Parliament now, we have a responsibility and we can't pretend like we can't see anything. The questions raised by Mr Prlić and Kurtović are questions to be answered immediately, for the next 10-15 days after this conference. We simply must task you, as chairman, to go to the meeting with the BiH presidency members, to invite them, to open this dialogue in coordination, to say that this cannot continue with the Council of Ministers of BiH. This is really getting ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5026	Thank you very much, we have Mr. Banjac and then Mr. Prlić, and that's what we end up with.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5027	Dear gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, here, it seems, in vain we speak, to whom we speak, to what we do, that's a big question. What are we doing? Please, the BiH Presidency, as it holds to the BiH Parliament, has shown this today, and what is happening to BiH and its parliament shows the number of people present. I think this is one thing we need to consider in detail. It is happening all the time that we see and, behold, there is no quorum in this room right now, and we are talking about some serious things and, please, we cannot determine who obstructs the work of the BiH Parliament. Well, here, let me say who's obstructing. They are obstructing the BiH presidency from a lower point of view, which is the fact that it is. I think it is a good proposal and I support, not to be obliged, to form a working body at parliament, which, in co-operation with the entity parliaments, will coordinate these affairs, because we will not get anywhere, but in order to achieve quality work, we must first clarify what is happening in parliament and say exactly who is not there. I can tell you that out of 14 MPs from RS, 10 are present here. What's going on? You're yelling we don't have the Council of Ministers of BiH, so who doesn't want the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH we've seen it. We're talking about a bunch of things that you can see clearly who won't and won't. I support the creation of such a working body, but in the future, if whoever sends us the materials isn't there, he's not worthy of talking to us... You're telling us to go to the BiH presidency. Why? Well, I guess they knew this was on the agenda. They got a call from everyone. They didn't have the decency to send their own advisors, where else and now you ask me to go to someone's feet to beg them to come to parliament as if this private matter were us left to decide about. We, as a parliament, must demand the resignations of those who will not work and to make ourselves and others serious once.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5028	The debate was good and raised very important questions. The BiH Parliament has never dealt with economic issues so far, nor has anyone in BiH dealt with economic issues, I speak at BiH level, within the competences that BiH has. After all, the BiH Council of Ministers signed a letter of intent with the IMF, but no body has ever taken care of this. We don't even have a development strategy, which is our obligation to make it, here, first we've just seen some work version by 2004, without that strategy it's not even possible to negotiate a measure. What were we supposed to do in the meantime? Let everything pass us, that we are nowhere and that, as far as possible, this situation prevails. It says here clearly in this material that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent letters to all institutions to run for projects. Well, the Foreign Ministry can't set priorities or do it, nor will I let the Foreign Ministry do it, it's not our part of the job. We can, if something's agreed, present it outside. If the election law was passed, I would suggest that it was adopted outside. I can't pass any electoral law or bring this strategy, I'm not talking about myself, I'm talking about the Foreign Ministry. When it comes to these projects that are listed here, they are either the result of previous agreements that have been reached, let's say, this European Investment Bank project is the result of an agreement at a donor conference in '98. The year or what Lagumdžija probably just got, the representative of Lagumdžija got the material late, so he probably didn't have enough time, 3.5 billion refer to Corridor V, which is an absolute priority, it entered as an integral part, and that's the European Convention that we signed 5-6 years ago. The other part that is connected is the rehabilitation of the railway, is part of the projects in the energy sector, these are all the things that we are in some stages, or through donor conferences or the Council of Ministers of BiH or some other body or international agreement, but the BiH Parliament cannot be outside of this, however. Every debt agreement eventually comes to this parliament. Each ratification is carried out in this parliament, but it is true, and I support that work coordination must be ensured. We've prepared a specific proposal, in which way. Whether to be the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers at the head of co-ordination, with entity representatives, representatives of the ministries, but there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, or, say, co-ordination in the area of security in which both defence ministries, the justice ministry, the interior ministries of both entities, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we have these proposals. However, we do not have the BiH Council of Ministers. In that situation, we meet every week, the three of us, to try at least this, as we say, cold drive to maintain, so we don't embarrass ourselves in front of the world and this whole thing that we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5029	I apologize, the quorum, unfortunately, we do not, so we can therefore allow Mr. Minister to complete, round up his discussion, or information, and then, unfortunately, we must interrupt and ask for respect, or for the seriousness of the representatives of this house, at least in the future to report for quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5030	I believe that in this respect, it should go that this coordination must be ensured and in this sense it should be supported that parliamentary commissions, this parliament has its own committees, for economics, finance and so on, so they should be hired to consider these materials, perhaps even before they have initiated them. There is no reason not to set priorities within BiH and to achieve any result at any small door. It is true that there is no coordination, it is true that there is not enough activity, but, in fact, it reflects the situation in which the whole country is located. I, in fact, don't know how much of what's going on here, we spend all day discussing who's giving a lesson and who's more responsible for this situation that we're in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5031	We're all responsible and we should get more serious...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5032	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would only have one suggestion, when you concede the agenda, let us set as first points, before certain problems arise, and the agenda, as they say, and not be established, to set points that are completely undeniable, these are international agreements, because sometimes we are obliged to paralyze countries with which we make draft agreements, to inform them that they are ratified as soon as possible, because it is, you know, the face and mirror of BiH. Believe that we have dozens of bilateral agreements, which have been at ratification for days, not because of this Parliament always, but, unfortunately, because of our very complicated procedure of approving some bilateral agreements, so I would ask you, in that sense, to give these points of the agenda to solve immediately at the beginning, and then probably more difficult these points require a little more time and reconciliation. I believe that this suggestion can be accepted, noting that, indeed, we put the points on the agenda according to priorities, i.e., the time of adoption. We interrupt the work, you'll be informed of the continuation of the session, thank you very much. The seat is finished at 6:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5034	Gentlemen, according to the Secretariat's report, we have 25 deputies and therefore we have a quorum. I am glad that we can continue the work of the 18th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. To continue the session, in addition to the MPs, it was called: the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the co-chairs and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH. Representatives of public communications funds were also invited to attend the session. The work of the House of Representatives is being joined today by Mr Ibrahim Đedović, a representative of the DNZ, whom we warmly welcome and congratulate. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for being present at this session. According to our service report, the session is attended by 25 MPs. The absence was announced by Ivo Mijačević and Munira Karić for health reasons, and Zlatko Lagumdžija for the official trip abroad. Dear gentlemen, since we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making, I suggest we get started. So Mr. Ljubomir Zovko was also given the opportunity to apologize for not attending this session. Before the session begins, I urge Mr. Đedović to take an oath before the House. Please stand up. I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5035	I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5036	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5037	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5038	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5039	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5040	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5041	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5042	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5043	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5044	I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5045	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5046	I once again congratulate Mr. Đedović and wish him successful work. Gentlemen, we have broken up the 18th session at point 9 of the already adopted agenda last time. Meanwhile, the College had activities on the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which is a very urgent case and therefore earned special attention. Two joint meetings of the colleges of both homes were held yesterday, and a meeting of the collegiates of both homes was held with the presidents of parliamentary clubs and party representatives who do not have representatives clubs. The result of these meetings is a draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers, which you received just before the start of this session. The PSBiH House of Representatives College took a unique position to include in the follow-up of this session the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers and to be included under point 13. So point 13 would read, instead of answering parliamentary questions and MPs' questions, the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH ministries. Since we have already voted on the agenda for the continuation of this session, I ask you to vote here and confirm this remark, i.e. the College's proposal. That's why I'm voting. Who's in favour of expanding the agenda for this proposed agenda point? Who's in? - 30 Who's against it? - There's no one. Here, we realized that the moment was really serious and that we did this part of the job right here. Mr. Bogičević, you have something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5047	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, when we have already extended the agenda, I suggest that, if possible, we extend it with another point according to the College's conclusion, which is next. Information on BiH's preparations for a new donor cycle and the implementation of Stability Pact projects in light of relations with international financial organisations. The college has taken the view that this initiative is directed to the BiH presidency and that it prepares the material as it concludes. A meeting of the BiH presidency was held on 3 April, together with foreign ministers, foreign trade, the prime minister of the Federation of BiH, etc. on this topic and we think that this is a very current topic and that it would be good from 3 April to today if it were time for the BiH Presidency to deliver such information to the PSBiH House of Representatives, so that we could put it on the agenda and discuss it. My proposal is, if possible, to extend this agenda with this agenda, along with the BiH Council of Ministers Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5048	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogičević. Is there anyone else? We're not opening a debate here on the agenda, we're just talking about possible proposals for new points, or supplementing what's important, and what we can do here. Is there anyone else who can answer that? I must put this proposal to the vote by Mr. Bogičević. Mr. Bogičević, this memo, the answer from the BiH presidency, has not been received so far. Therefore, we feel that we do not have all the conditions to put that item on the agenda. I really can't tell you that. I don't think we have that regular procedure, but we can promise, if it's any kind of satisfaction, we'll put it on the agenda as soon as we get it. Do you agree with that? Okay. Then you're withdrawing your proposal. Thank you very much, so we don't have to vote on this any more specifically. So I suggest we start with the agenda of this session, which is point 9. Ad.9. An innovative report on meeting the conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe Is there a rapporteur here? You got the text. Here, according to information, I do not have a special rapporteur, therefore, that text you have and we have received it, we have nothing to vote on. If no one has any special desire to discuss this point, we move to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Realisation of International Fund for Demining and Mine Victims in BiH plan
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5049	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed chairman, I think it would be good, and that is why I went out for a pay phone, that the foreign minister is in some way informing us about the current position of BiH, when it comes to the Council of Europe, that is, what are the current chances, where we are at the moment. I don't think we should go over this agenda point just so that, simply because there's no discussion, let's end that agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5050	Mr. Minister, can I do that?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5051	In last session, in the context of the debate on the overall situation and meeting the conditions set out in BiH, when it comes to several international institutions, above all to the Ve, the European Union, and some international financial organisations, above all to the IMF and the World Bank, I also spoke partly about the current state of affairs when it comes to BiH's entry into the VE. You know that now the issue of BiH's accession to the Vere Parliamentary Assembly is in the power of the Vee Parliamentary Assembly, following a decision by the Committee of Ministers in January last year to forward the issue to the Parliamentary Assembly. In the procedure, it is now necessary for the Parliamentary Assembly to give a positive opinion, so that the Committee of Ministers can make a decision on BiH's accession to the WE. However, to do so, it is important to make progress in meeting, in a certain way, common conditions between different delegations, the BiH VE delegations and BiH institutions. In this procedure, it is important to obtain positive opinions from the two committees of the Council of Europe, the Committee for Political and Legal Affairs. The Political Affairs Committee adopted a positive recommendation at its session in January and suggested that the issue be considered at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly, held in April, that is, it was already held last week. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs held different views, as well as the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly. Part of BiH's international representatives also stayed in Strasbourg on various occasions and talked about it. In this context, he was the High Representative for BiH, Mr Petrič, who participated in last week and addressed his presentation to the Committee on Political Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Ve, I think that our media mainly published basic accentes, which, in particular, contain views that BiH still does not meet the conditions, some 30 human rights conditions, to meet only seven of which and one of those being fulfilled, this is because of the high representative's decisions. It is also possible to make progress at the parliamentary assembly meeting in June, possibly to reach a positive opinion of the Parliamentary Assembly if some progress is recorded in BiH on several very important issues. It's mostly reduced, if I can really, at one high level of abstraction I'm talking about, three important questions. The first question is the functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers. It is not realistic to expect that the Parliamentary Assembly can make a positive decision for a country where the government or council of ministers in the country does not function. This is under a. b. The essential condition is the adoption of the Election Law. You know that the Council of Europe is a family of democratic states of Europe and it is very difficult to achieve a situation for the country to be admitted to that membership in a situation where it does not even have its own electoral law. In this connection, no conditions are laid down that the electoral law will be passed, whether one proposed through one representative and prepared by international experts will be the law of any parliamentary party. The law that is seriously under discussion here and which is accepted by parliament is considered relevant. In this regard, no one imposes electoral law on us, it should be in line with basic democratic principles and meet the constitutional position in BiH. The third question is to record significant progress in the implementation of decisions and recommendations of human rights institutions, in particular the Commission for Human Rights, the Ombudsmans operating both at BiH level and recently at both entities' level. These are three fundamental issues, and if we make progress in this regard, then it is quite realistic to expect that BiH can be in the organisation. Otherwise, at this point, all European countries are members of the Ve, of those who have applied for membership, except BiH, these are Armenia, Azerbaijan and Monaco, Belarus has so frozen status, the SRJ, of course, is not a member, you have heard of these latest measures, when it comes to the character of Russian Federation membership, after what happened in the Chechnya area. Not to go into detail now about all these points being fulfilled or not being met, it is important to note a positive dynamism and debate in the BiH Parliament. Basically, the key elements may not be for the foreign minister to tell you here, but, the key to BiH's accession is the effective functioning of the BiH Parliament in all the materials made up of various commissions and bodies and all international representatives who follow the situation in BiH, the most serious remarks are being put on the work of the BiH Parliament, in the sense that it does not work, or does not work enough, do not work appropriate bodies, that it does not feel sufficiently ready to come to a solution, and if you could correct that impression, I think that a significant situation could be improved. We have also formally come into one situation, due to the appointment of a new rapporteur for political affairs, to extend the deadline somewhat. We expect his arrival, probably in this month, it is a gentleman from Hungary and, if we make progress in these three points that I have said, I think it is quite realistic to expect, and there is our delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly, to find this issue in the debate already in June of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5052	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5053	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Minister Prlić mainly presented the main themes concerning our accession to the Council of Europe, and I, as an active participant, took part in the Committees on Political Affairs, in January and March which took place in Paris and the last parliamentary session held in Strasbourg a few days ago, can inform you, as members of parliament, that we have not been standing so badly, as regards our admission to the Council of Europe, as we are now. In January, we were given an extraordinary opportunity, where we were at the request of the chairman of the Political Affairs Committee, Mr Teri Dejvis, were put on the agenda for the April session to discuss our reception. That's when I said, when I came back from Paris, that we had 100 days at our disposal to meet the minimum conditions that we expect, however, that 100 days have passed and, unfortunately, we haven't done what we're expected to do. I must tell you that we also have a big problem with our relationship with this business, is today said of us in BiH, because they see us only as a BiH state, that they no longer believe in our word, that we are people who do not hold to our word and that we are people who do not hold to the fulfillment of what we sign. Therefore, our image in the Council of Europe, among parliamentarians, has dropped quite a bit. We have another accident, which is that Mr Blocer left in January, who was the chief rapporteur for political issues, which gave a realistic and objective finding of what we were doing until January, however, he left parliament and is now being replaced by Mr. Šurlan, the deputy foreign minister of Hungary, who will have to, by his arrival in BiH in late April, only to begin to get acquainted with what is happening to us. I note that out of the seven candidates who asked for this report, to be rapporteurs of the Political Committee, Šurlan was elected Šurlan though it was his first report, he has no experience in the business, so he will probably take the time to get acquainted with the situation in BiH. The Human Rights Reference is Mrs Jatermaki from Finland, who, I have the impression, is my opinion, is quite difficult and slow to get into the problem of what is really going on in BiH, so the last session in Paris has not even come and this report on the state of human rights is still late and this unfortunate situation is that we have two completely new reporters, who are not well acquainted and who will need time to get into this problem, Mr Šurlan and Mrs Jatermak. They will arrive at the end of April for an official visit to our parliament. Mr. Prlić told you that Mr. Petrič spoke in Strasbourg. You know that at the last session, Mr. Klajn spoke, who asked this as a political question, so BiH's admission to the Council of Europe as a very political issue, not a question of meeting the conditions, which are constantly being added, changed, taken away and never said exactly that. Therefore, the referendum was well welcomed, but Mr. Petrič spoke at this last session, and he has now reduced it to minimum conditions again, and is asking us to operate the joint institutions, he said that we have no government, that we have a crisis of government, that we are the only country where the government does not work, and I am very pleased to welcome the placing on the agenda of this law on the Council of Ministers of BiH because we need, the functioning of parliament, the government, or the common state institutions, is in second place the adoption of an electoral law, so that the election is properly implemented in October, which is our second condition, and the third condition is respect for human rights, which means the return of expelled, avoided, avoided their houses. I think that if we want to be a part of Europe, we should really take this approach a little bit seriously or not make easy promises that we can't keep.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5054	Thank you, Mrs. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5055	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I think that the previous two discussions show in the best way that this issue of BiH's integration into European integration cannot be accessed in the way that we have done so far within the delegation represented by this Parliament in the Council of Europe, within the framework of BiH institutions, so if you want to join the Parliament, that more of such a daily-political, volunteering one, or, in which it has been promised for several years, 4 years, the promises of Mr. Bičakčić that we will be admitted into the ET, no more anywhere. That is why I find it very important that the debate on this issue is launched, however, but it should be launched from the aspect of defining a clearer political role, so if you want responsibilities for the start of parliament, and to Bogami and the Presidency of BiH, entity governments and, of course, the future Council of Ministers that we will form. In this context, I would specifically ask that the conclusion of this PSBiH House of Representatives be to prepare for the next session the information on the points which are the basic conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, I am talking about three points, what the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is thinking about in terms of the electoral law and what the Parliamentary Assembly is going to do in a segment of those tasks that are defined by respect for the European Conventions on Human Rights and other international conventions, in the context, of course, those statements signed, with full media attention, in February of the month, by members of the BiH Presidency Izetbegović, Jelavić i Radišić; Mirko Banjac and Izet Žigić, then chairman of the House of Nations and chairman of the House of Representatives. I ask that information be made at the next session on the plans of this House of Representatives, its working bodies, the College, what will be done in six months so that we do not again realize that we should wait for the entry into the V.E. and that the next time the rapporteurs from the Council of Europe come, we are not making a play here that is okay, in which we are all smiling, in which there are no debaters, but that until then we really resolve the essential issues that are the precondition for entry into the V.E., and it is being settled here in Parliament, so if you will and in the parliamentary majority. The first point of the next meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives to be information on the course of activities with a plan to prepare the PSBiH House of Representatives for BiH's integration in the context of three of these tasks, in the context of this signed statement signed by top representatives of BiH's central institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5056	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5057	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to tie my part of the discussion to what we can do here, to bind to the aspect of our responsibility for, here, I have already not yet accepted BiH as a permanent member of the Council of Europe. As you have heard from Mr. Minister, there are several points that need to be fulfilled, which depend on us sitting right here in this room, which are the Law on the Council of Ministers and the Permanent Election Law. Is it necessary to point out where the greatest responsibility is, which is why we don't have those two laws? As much as we can be trusted, speak the following information. When I announced that I couldn't come to this session, you know that it was, in a way, prematurely, due to some circumstances, we had a campaign, then I received from one of the people in charge of BiH, by e-mail, a question, which is why we in RS are obstructing the Election Law, a permanent Electoral Law. I think you don't need a comment. What information then goes to those people who observe the conditions for BiH's entry. My appeal, I repeat, was to ask why we in RS were obstructing the adoption of a permanent electoral law, and should I remind you that we voted in favour of three variants of the draft laws that were in this assembly. We really need to get serious here, too. How much I was informed, the report, or the High Representative's statement to the Political Affairs Committee, was much more negative than it was Klajnov the January session, and I think it is necessary, and here I am asking that all MPs be translated and delivered its full presentation and answers to the questions that were within this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5058	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest three conclusions regarding today's debate. First of all, I would like to agree with my colleague Dokić, the three proposals that we need to see, too, finally, some text of the presentation of our representatives and delegations and gentlemen who spoke on behalf of representatives of the international community, who have the exact same rights and are even equal to us by 2002 in deciding and representing BiH inside and outside, in the case of Mr Klajn and in the case of Mr Petrič. It is unusual that the BiH Parliament has no information on what is said about the situation in BiH, whether it is a delegation from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is responsible for representing our country's Parliamentary Assembly, whether it is international representatives. When it comes to the first delegation, it was clear as a day that a delegation that has never been established, such as no delegation or in any of the systems of Parliament's relations with international institutions, will never get any promotion before the delegation leaves, we will not get any text with which they will go out there as a delegation of the BiH Parliament, and we will generally get an oral presentation of members of the delegation to parliament, regularly and post-festum on what was going on there. The BiH Parliament, as an institution, is in no way in any case in a position to obtain from its delegation to the Council of Europe a platform for its performances and reports on what it has done in working bodies, commissions, and the line does not work. That's the first line of irresponsibility we have to remove here. My proposal is to conclude today that the delegation we have in the Parliamentary Council of the Assembly of Europe must give the BiH Parliament information and a platform with which it comes out and a report on it. We, I think, once had an official report on it and a written one. It can be checked in the records. This is the first proposal to establish relations between us and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The second proposal is, concerning the operation of our mission, which concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Strasbourg. I would also like it to be transparently presented here in the BiH Parliament, who on behalf of BiH has all participated in various meetings over the past year and a half, not to go beyond this mandate when it comes to different levels of BiH's presence in relation to education to political issues. According to my knowledge, BiH is on many, I will not prejudge anything, but I am asking for a report, therefore, first from the Foreign Ministry to show who everything is on behalf of BiH, on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, has performed on the working bodies of the Council of Europe and which projects it has represented there and which projects have been implemented in general in relation to what we have had as a membership reception. According to the information I have from the Council of Europe itself, quite openly and quite directly, this information would greatly help clarify BiH's position in the Council of Europe. It is a huge number of working bodies, meetings, meetings where we have called by the Council of Europe, as well as other members who are in permanent status and who are in temporary status. You will see from that report what a picture of BiH is in the structure of the Council of Europe. This is important, not because of what it has been, but because it shows what the future of our presence in the Council of Europe is and how we will organise ourselves. This is about Parliament's relationship with the Council of Europe. I also think it would be good for the BiH Parliament to get a final picture of what the Council of Europe is, a technical picture. I have a feeling that this is quite abstract to us, to some people in parliament and that they do not know, in fact, what this Parliamentary Assembly is and what the sekretarijat is doing, what the role of the Secretary-General is, how it is possible to make a parliamentary assembly such a decision in Russia, and that, let's say, the second decision is made by the Secretary-General, etc. We should see that, since we have here a handsome institution called the FARE programme for Parliament and I see that many are preparing for their future work in the next term, it would be good to have this FARE programme buckled up to the fact that MPs from both homes get accurate information about the structure of the Council of Europe, which is Commissions, what the sekretarijat, who makes what decision, I know that it seems unconvincing to you that it is necessary for us, but I think it is not bad for people to be directed into this activity, because then Parliament can be quite different to the obligations of the Council of Europe both today and in the future. This is about parliament, the technical relationship between Parliament and the Council of Europe. As far as parliament is concerned, compared to BiH institutions, of course parliament itself has not done the job in relation to the legal activity since the Madrid Conference and to this day, and that for a year and a half, almost two and a half years, we are chasing whether these laws will be adopted or not. I have read the BiH Presidency's paper on joining the EU and how we will come to start negotiations with us officially. The first item is Election Law. I think that if we have exhausted all possible variations, the proposals of the electoral laws, which everyone has proposed to the end and to Mrs Ana Havel, I think it is time for Parliament to commit to another conclusion that the electoral law will be put on the agenda. However, I have two requests, one relating to parliament, and the other to the Commission on constitutional issues and legislation. I think it is extremely irresponsible for the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Commission, at least from this moment on, to be a committee of this parliament, that commission has been elected by parliament to escape its responsibilities in relation to the Election Law and all other laws. It must take responsibility, after the international community, following various proposals from MPs, various political parties and coalitions, it is time for this constitutional commission and the Legislative Commission to assume responsibility and initiative to come out as a parliamentary commission with a proposal for a certain electoral law and come up with a compromise that is necessary to show that we have only responsibility for what is in our jurisdiction. I'm linking it to another part of the responsibility. Today we received a modified proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH and various interventions, remarks, amendments, again into infinity. There is one of the key responsibilities of Mr Prlić and Ms Filipović's exposure, the lack of the Council of Ministers, in the sense that there is no Prime Minister and all his functions, I think, too, that we must get clear information today and for this point, and we can also consider other points, however you will, whether the Constitutional Commission and the Legislative Commission, this proposal, which has arrived, which has been modified by the College, had been discussed before it was put on the agenda today. All the joy of putting him on the agenda, I don't think anything's new. We have several months on the agenda of several legislative proposals. The question arises whether, in accordance with the procedure of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Commission and this proposal, other than the Colleges of Enlargement, considered whether we have any conditions on the agenda today, if the Commission will not do so, may the Commission consider it, if it has considered, I would like to see, in addition to this proposal, the Commission's opinion on constitutional issues and legislation. Otherwise, there is no responsibility for parliament, according to it, we cannot point out either to the BiH Presidency, to the international community and to the non-existent council of ministers for changes in relations, if we do not say today these are relations with the Council of Europe, as a Parliamentary Assembly, this is our relationship to the Election Law, and this is our relationship to the BiH Council of Ministers. To have this relationship, the only body in the BiH Parliament that has a responsibility, directly, except for a joint session or separate these two homes, is the Constitutional Commission and the other body, of course, is, the Council of Ministers, if we reach the Council of Ministers today, based on the law, based on work in the Presidency, etc. So, at the beginning of today's debate, we need to clear up with ourselves, whether there is a capacity, not for new information, I agree, as Mr. Tokić says, to ask for the information of 40 points, so let us know what is not done. However, I am convinced that the proposal made by Mr Špirić is very clear, when you see the text or who spoke, Mr Dokić, when you see the exact text that Mr Petrič said, you will see how he treated each of these questions. Mine's a simple attitude. I demand that neither half a month nor six months wait, this text exists, this text is published, parts of the text are publicly published, it has grounds for us to get this information today, Mr. Petrič's text, as well as the official position and official information of the delegation to the Council of Europe. That's the third proposal, to sum it up. 1. To clarify the relationship between the Council of Europe and the delegation we have 2. The Constitutional Commission should adopt its position on the BiH Council of Ministers and on the Election Law and present it to us before parliament. 3. To win today's session of Mr. Petrič's official presentations and the presentation of our delegation at these sessions, as they explain the position. As for the information we received from Mrs Filipović, it is very good and correct, however, I did not see how our representatives explained the situation in BiH. I can see that better, I'd like to get that text officially from that delegation or from the representatives of the exhibit they had on those bodies, if we can get it. So when you see that Mr. Petrič's presentation, as the newspaper has passed on, is fully addressed to each point of 40 points, to every law that we should have passed, and that the presentation of our delegation is not about any of these issues, but we have global statements, then you will realize that in fact our responsibility is that we were unable to specify and specify the responsibility and obligations of the entities, the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that is our main proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5059	I'm just a short replica of what Mr. Spahić was saying. I must inform you that as members of the visiting delegation at the Council of Europe, we do not have the right to participate in any debate. When Mr. Petrič spoke, before the Political Affairs komitet, those who were in Strasbourg were present together with the Head of Mission, but because of the length of Mr. Petrič's speech and the number of questions asked directly to him, the delegation was deprived of the right to address, due to the shortness of time alone. There's an hour and a half, 40 minutes said Mr. Petrič, and the other questions were asked, and the chairman, Mr. Teri Dejvis asked our delegation to refrain from any, so we don't always have the right to talk. You must be aware here that the Council of Europe has appointed reporters, appointed rapporteurs for both political issues and human rights that come, follow, and Bog knows who here when he comes does not send a report to the Council of Europe on what he saw. Therefore, don't look at what the Council of Europe is doing, let's watch what we do, and they watch what we do and make their own conclusions. Mr. Petrič can't say that we have, that Parliament works well for us and that we have a government, he was very real in his report. The only thing that bothers me is the disproportionateness of Minister Prlić, who delivered us here at the last session, which looks a little better than what Mr. Petrič was saying. He said only seven laws were passed, four of which under his pressure. According to this report you gave, things are a little bit better. Here it is divided into three columns: satisfactory, unsatisfactory and as you have called it and partly. According to your report, eight laws were passed satisfactorily, in this last column, in requests, 15 we are not at all 17 in part, I believe you more, he was a little stricter than you, but I want to tell you that we can't always take the word, and everything we say, what we get to say, is printed and extension in the report of the Council of Europe, which the Council of Europe sends to the Ministry. As for the functioning of the Council of Europe, each of you, I hope that it has already been informed how it works, we will probably not talk about it after five years, but if someone is not informed enough or thinks they can get more information, in Sarajevo, in Strosmayer Street, there is an office of the Council of Europe Mission where you are free of charge of all literature relating to the work of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5060	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I really want to say that I regret that BiH is not already in the Council of Europe, and on the other hand, I am glad that we have received an honest answer from those who have monitoring over BiH. The words I heard here today are the words that Nikola Špirić spoke as a positionary in parliament, and when representatives of the Council of Europe were here, that BiH, through joint institutions, instead of getting responsible state representatives, received classical liars, so the assessment is that the international community does not believe the promises of individuals. I would also like the names of the people who have failed the promise of the international community to stand, we must tell the people once. I say that there are people who promise one thing to the international community, the other they tell the citizens of BiH, and the third they basically work. Such a set cannot bring BiH into the Council of Europe, I am convinced. There is another assessment, as new leadership is now coming to the Council of Europe, they are not informed, they do not know what is going on in BiH. Be assured that people know what's going on, whether they're new or old, because they're serious organs, but what I'm worried about is whether we're convinced when the BiH parliamentary delegation goes outside and talks, whether it tells the same story as BiH sees. Well, the international community is weirded out by our stories about BiH. It must be told what BiH essentially is, and not what anyone would want it to be, so Srbin tell one story, Bošnjak tell another story, Hrvat tell a third story and such BiH cannot be admitted to the Council of Europe. That is why I think that all the key things, all the key problems of BiH must be an open debate in this House and have a unique position and must be defended within the Council of Europe in order to become a full member. To go back to what Professor Dokić was talking about. We must speak of what our mission is. Is it possible that we really forgot about the programme of work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which we are here from, I must be honest, making a circus before the eyes of representatives of the international community. Has anyone thought to analyze what we've done? What happened to the permanent election law? What about the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH or the Council of Ministers of BiH, which last time we were happy to say that a proposal of the Coalition of Slog was adopted, so it fell to the House of Peoples, so now we're going back to the beginning and Bog knows how it will go today. So we have to open the dialogue and it's all up to us, it's up to the PSBiH Representative Council, but I'm not convinced that there's a happy combination of political factors here that agree on important things. If the Sloga Coalition agrees here, the BiH and HDZ CD coalition has a unique view of BiH. Be sure that BiH will move faster towards the Council of Europe. They think differently about everything, and that's why the international community is crazy and says we can't trust you because you promise differently. Let us return to what is our task, to return what is our mission, to return to the Representative's Council's Work Programme, because it is essentially our only obligation and our only real contribution to BiH's accession to the Ve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5061	First of all, Minister Prlić said the electoral law will not be imposed, we must adopt him here. I would underline, thanks to just the action of the Council of Europe, I hope that no law will impose on us any more and that we will have to adopt them here. That's why I once again underline our seriousness. In this context, let us, if we are truly honest with the Council of Europe, and the sooner that happens, the better it will be for all of us, because we will have to accept different standards than those we are working with so far, based on which we are working so far. Today is a chance to have the Law on the Council of Ministers, here, one of the three conditions met, and two depend on us. My proposal is that by the next session of this house, the BiH presidency, or the co-ordination body, find a way to come to the agenda of a permanent electoral law. I don't want to be smart about how it might be, but have them consult with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, with parties that don't have parliamentary clubs and until the next session to go to the assembly with a draft of a permanent election law. That way, and if we are there for an expedition, we can expect BiH to be on the agenda in June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5062	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I hope that in future work we will not have to intervene on the formulas that no elements or Constitution or Rules of Procedure can be said here, I do not know on which meadows Mr Špirić has gathered Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and hear what they are saying about joining the Ve, but I would certainly remind him to meet the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution, in this assembly, in this House of Representatives, all MPs are obliged to perform on behalf of political parties and cannot attach themselves, especially Mr Špirić, to speak on behalf of the people, because he offends a number of MPs and political parties in this House, and you, Mr Genjac, Banjac and You, chairman of Skopljak, are obliged to interrupt each of the MPs who speak with that rhetoric. I don't think there's any reason for us to go into terms right now, in political options, which, here, are suffering defeat in BiH, which are since the '90s. By the logic of totalitarianism, one nation is one party, I hope, overcome, precisely in order to join BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5063	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm allowing Mr. Tokić and I to disagree. We are the only parliament or representative council in which the parliamentary majority is not defined and who makes it. To make it clear to everyone, so that we can move forward faster or faster in the sun, Nikola Špirić does not plead, I don't know how it is possible for Tokić to identify me with this, but there are no pastures and meadows where I haven't met Tokić, I have to tell him in public.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5064	Come on, please, take the rhetoric here seriously.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5065	I would ask the MPs, because others are calling, to stop who's defeated, who's the winner, that's what the elections have shown. Whether someone likes it or not, that's a whole other thing. Who is a Democrats, who is not a Democrats, and this has been shown by elections, rhetoric in the elections, has also shown who is, who is not a Democrats and I pray you, precisely because Parliament works and stop such rhetoric that started in the '90s and who is in 2000. Who has done what he has done and how he has done, the people know it best, and it gives him such trust, and it is quite logical, and as far as this is concerned, gentlemen, read the letter sent to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs by our representative, BiH, my representative, is not a representative, because this is how it says uglyly, and I cannot accept him as my representative, the representative of BiH at VE. Among other things, he says only one thing and therefore do not grieve, but meet the facts, because they are not being killed, it is a written clue that remains for Parliament's history as well. He, among other things, says: “Parliament did not adopt the Law establishing the Border State Service,” despite Blacer’s claims, etc., and when the question is that I do not read, I do not take up time, and when it comes to the draft of the electoral law, then it is said “there are major interferences”. It is not said that it has not been adopted, therefore, that what Mr Branko Dokić has said here is deliberately and such wants to lead BiH to the Council of Europe and, unfortunately, those are sitting there, not that BiH is accepted, but that they are clouding things to prove that BiH institutions cannot function, in order to achieve some goals that cannot be achieved on a democratic basis or have no arguments and that the Dejton Constitution of BiH does not stand behind it, and then, through its satellites, individual political parties write such letters. These letters are not in line with the interests of this parliament, are not in line with the interests of the citizens and the people of BiH and cannot be the way to the Council of Europe. For this reason, gentlemen, I propose, and first of all, at the Council of Europe, we must have representatives of all three nations, to follow what they do there, and this is not a representative of my people, nor can this be what he wrote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5066	Just one intervention to Mr. Banjac who's a member of the Kolegijum. It's quite clear that two things don't stand here. First, we have verified the Strasbourg representation as one of BiH's diplomatic consular offices in the world. The schedule, agreement and who will be represented in this context by a key was also introduced through the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. It would be correct if, in this respect, too, no terminology was introduced that absolutely did not correspond to the fact. BiH must be represented by a representation that will do its job authentically and in line with foreign policy, the BiH presidency platform and the foreign ministry. That should be the level of debate in Parliament. On the other hand, the remarks made by Mrs Filipović on my presentation, that is the second part of the replica and the shortest part, it refers to that all the exhibitions and all the performances of our delegations are forwarded neatly by the Council of Europe to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There is not a delegation from the foreign ministry, but is a parliamentary delegation from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, if it receives information concerning the work of our delegation, as a body in charge of coordination, and on our behalf, should provide this information to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5067	Let me just say, I really know that Mr. Spahić has his own terminology, he has a complicated dictionary, which, of course, is hard to understand. I have to tell him that I didn't say anything else, so he didn't need to replicate to me, except that one representative of a nation, no matter who it was, couldn't speak for everyone. I just wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5068	I ask you to refrain from the extra replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5069	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I have indeed proposed a concrete conclusion and I have asked that the Rules of Procedure be respected and thanked Mr Banjac for the reaction he has, I would not now open the story of obstructions within the meaning of the Electoral Law, you know that they were divided opinions, that the parties had their concrete proposals and every obstruction, from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, are those who did not want to vote for the Law based on the European Convention on Human Rights. That won't get us anywhere, because we're opening a debate that we've already had for hours and a few sessions. As far as meadows are concerned, I expected you to break up, as you hastily interrupted other types of replicas of this kind, as far as I'm concerned, Špirić, you can stay on that meadow with several hundred of your supporters, just don't confuse it with either Serbian or Croatian, or with the Bosniak people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5070	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić, on your proposal for a conclusion we will plead behind the discussion, I hope you will be pleased with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5071	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thought we'd start working with this assembly and the election campaign has passed, however, it's obvious that we're going to continue as we've done so far, it's, like, for starters, but I suggest the following. Surely the PSBiH House worked most, or should I say, more than the RS Assembly, than the Federation of BiH Assembly. The RS Assembly of the elections we've been to together has reached the 9th session, here, we're already discussing the 19th one we're scheduled to schedule for next Sunday or some kind of term. What are our labor effects? I wouldn't be talking about it right now, it's on purpose now, and I'm drawing it up that we're not going to discuss all the other affairs, and we're not going to discuss ourselves, how we do and what we do, and what we've been turning our debate into these 17 or 17 and a half sessions. That is why I propose that the College conduct one analysis of Parliament's work. We have a plan of Parliament's work, we have certain things, which we also have with some of our declarations, which we have long discussed, as the Stability Pact and some other political documents that we have brought in, to look at and see what we can do in this next period and what is realistic. If we enter into the debate today, as many concepts in this assembly as they see BiH, as they represent BiH in the world, then it is certain that we will continue to work in a chaotic state, because we are not interested in the BiH Constitution either, we are not interested in the Peace Agreement, but are interested in a particular political platform represented by a particular party, represented by certain people, who are being placed in the world and we are also confusing both the global and domestic public. I think we need to reach some consensus here on how to establish all common bodies, how to get to the electoral law and how all the authorities at BiH level work effectively. That should be our basic issues, commitment and analysis. I therefore propose that Parliament, or the College, make one analysis such that we reduce our work plan on the basis of this analysis and see what we can really do in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5072	You will give this proposal to the Secretariat, and we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5073	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I didn't hear Mr. Rakić correctly, I apologize, Mr. Rakic, did you say a reduction in the program, did you mention that we're reducing it, something like that in the end, I didn't understand, because I think my predecessors were talking about the real thing and the real thing, and that's the program that we adopted. We adopted the Program, on it, unfortunately, we didn't work. When we did as agreed, that's when your laws and your bill were rejected, gentlemen. In the Programme by the end of last year, we had, say, a reform of the judicial system in line with the obligations of Dayton and in line with the obligations of the Madrid Conference. The Law on Criminal Procedure, the First Criminal Law, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Defence, the Law on the Prosecution, these laws were rejected here without debate, as it was rejected without debate by the Law on the application of international conventions which is now very important for us to join the Ve and I will put it back on the agenda, since we are now creating such a single ministry. So it's up to us. We have our program and we don't respect the program. Remember who was against when, in accordance with our programme, these laws are put on the agenda, without discussion, and we have a commitment from Madrid. If we're talking about the program, then let's remember who voted. If anyone has a better Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Court, the Law on the Defence, the Law on the Prosecution, if he has such a law, let him pass it and discuss it. We have our program and it's up to us. It is not in this case until the BiH presidency, nor to the Council of Europe, nor to anyone else, it is up to us here whether we are doing it or not. I would suggest, here, according to what the predecessors have suggested, that we devote a little time, whenever we agree and discuss the programme and assume the responsibility that is absolutely in this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5074	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say that this debate is useless, however, I believe that it should be brought down slowly, that it would be good to bring this debate down as soon as possible, to try to reach the point of today's agenda on the proposed law on the BiH Council of Ministers. In my deep conviction, this way we will help the BiH matter far better in front of the Council of Europe, especially as there is one view that there is one kind of political consensus on the proposed law. Therefore, if we would like to do something on a concrete basis today, I think it would be good to shorten all global discussions in general and focus on some concrete solutions, and the most concrete thing the PSBiH House of Representatives can do today is to try to pass the law on the BiH Council of Ministers and thus draws a step closer to the Council of Europe. Therefore, my proposal is to bring this debate, which is very useful from an informative point of view, to the end, and to focus on the upcoming agenda as soon as possible and to reach the BiH Council of Ministers Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5075	Thank you, Mr. Jahić, I think this proposal is very useful and it is up to you, if you do not report more for this debate which, in my opinion, does not go exactly in the right direction, according to me, then it is normal that we will go faster and more correctly. Since it has not been reported for debate, nor for replica, I consider that this item of the agenda has been absorbed in this regard, with one note that the proposal for the conclusions of Parliament of Sejfudin Tokić must be put to the vote. The secretariat has prepared this proposal for a conclusion, and I will read it, Mr. Tokić, if you have any comments, please tell me. To prepare a plan for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's activities to provide conditions for BiH's entry into the WE and to put as the first item of the agenda of the next session (College, Commission for International Relations, Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the WE). Did I paraphrasise correctly? Thank you very much. I ask you to state who this proposal is for Mr. Sejfudin Tokić. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against this proposal? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. Since 32-17 voted in favour of it, no one declared against it and the abstentions were 4. I don't think we have any reason to vote on entities here. We believe this proposal has been accepted. Thank you very much. We have further suggestions from Mr Spahić that I have given to you, please, Mr Dokić. Give it to the secretary, so we can make a statement here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5076	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5077	The esteemed representatives, I think, in a certain way, have been confused here, given what Mr Spahić said. I'd like to remind you that the draft electoral law proposed by HDZ went to an agreement, it was at this session, in that earlier session, I don't know what date it was. At the same time, I am now taking the opportunity to say, given that the Election Law is one of the conditions, one of the three most important conditions for BiH to be adopted into the WE, and since the draft of the electoral law, which HDZ has given, will go to a consensus and will be at the next session, I suppose, at the next session of Parliament. I suggest we approach this document very carefully, find a consensus and establish it as a draft at the next session, because it is the only draft that is now in Parliament. I am taking the opportunity to appeal to you to find an opportunity and way to determine the draft electoral law, so that BiH is in a position to be admitted to the EE.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5078	Thank you very much. I suggest I give half an hour's rest, while these proposals are precisely deciding, and then we'll make a statement about their fate. There are a few suggestions that we need to write here exactly and suggest in the original form. I ask MPs to take their seats if they're in the hall or somewhere else. [[PAUZA]] We can keep working. We have a few suggestions here. Let's go in order, as you suggested. Mr Branko Dokić has made two suggestions, which I hope you have before you. The secretariat, do they have one? Here, I'll read it to you. Mr Branko Dokić suggests 1. It is up to the College to find a solution to the concept of a permanent electoral law by next session, as it is our task, I am not aware either, but here I must put you to the vote. Who's for this proposal I read Mr. Branko Dokić? - Eight's for it. Who's against this proposal? – 10 This first proposal, 8 voted in favour, the vote was 10, the others were abstentions, so the proposal did not go through. 2. It undertakes the House's service to provide representatives with translation, Mr Petrič's presentation to the Political Affairs Commission in Strasbourg. Who's in? - Who's against this perimeter. We have the results of this vote. Out of the 33-27s present, the proposal number 2 by Mr Dokić passed. Thank you very much. The debate on point nine is closed. We have suggestions, Mr Ibrahim Spahić made a proposal on the occasion of this agenda point, clearly, here you have his 5 proposals. I ask you to plead for proposal number one that you have, here, I leave you minutes to study it. Who's for proposal number one, Mr Spahić, for? Who's against the proposal? Of the 33 present, 29 MPs voted in favour of this proposal, the number one Mr Spahić was adopted. Thank you very much. We have a proposal for Mr. Spahić's number two, here, read it yourself. Who is to propose that the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Commission come up with a proposal for a permanent electoral law, it is like what was then. Who's against this proposal? Of the 33 present – 10 voted in favour, 17 were voted against, therefore, this proposal number 2 did not go through, Mr Spahić. Proposed number 3 is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discusses the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH ministries, and delivers today's session of the Commission's positions, so that the Kolegijum's proposal can be discussed at this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5079	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Ibrahim Spahić for this proposal. However, according to his work description, the Constitutional Commission must do this anyway. Namely, the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, which adopted the College yesterday on the basis of the original text of the BiH Presidency and which has partially changed the College, requires the Constitutional Commission, and without this conclusion, to declare before this point arrives on the agenda, and we will do so at an appropriate time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5080	Thank you very much. We'll take a break, Mr. Kadić, so that this session can be scheduled and held. Thank you very much. That was proposal number three. Mr Spahić's proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, by the foreign ministry, also provides information on BiH's engagement and representation in the bodies of the Council of Europe. Who's up for this proposal? Who's against this proposal? Thank you very much. The results of the vote for proposal number 4, of 33 present – 24 for, therefore, this proposal has passed. We have a proposal for the 5th Mr Spahić to present to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the presentation of Mr Petrič and other representatives in international institutions, as well as the presentations and information on the performances of representatives of the BiH Parliament, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Representation in connection with BiH's entry into the WE. Who's up for this proposal? Here you go, Mr. Dokić, I'm just asking you to stay out of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5081	Indeed, I am taking up your time, but if you have in mind that our representatives did not have the opportunity at the last session to discuss, and the first part we have already voted, so it is illusory now to vote in the second part. Our representatives haven't had a chance to discuss this last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5082	I agree that some proposals overlap, i.e., that there are very similar proposals, so I say, I will refrain from this proposal. Please again, Mr Spahić, once again I ask you who is Mr Spahić's number five proposal. Who's in? Who's against this proposal? Of the 34 present – for it was 14 – against 4, they remained as we used to, the proposal was adopted. Thank you very much. This concludes the 9th point of the agenda. Mr. Špirić, if he's not here. We also have a proposal for Mr Špirić's conclusion, please, Mr Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5083	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5084	I'm asking you not to make any unnecessary fuss here. I told you to make your proposals in writing, to make a statement about them. So, Mr. Rakić, if you haven't done it, I'm asking you to do it next time and we'll get to the bottom of it. Please respect the procedure as well as the others. I think we've exhausted this 9th point and we're going to point 10. Ad.10. Realising the plan of the International Fund for Demining and Assistance for Mine Victims in BiH You have the material ahead of you, do we have a reporter present here?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5085	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Prlić, who is busy with other duties, asked me to try some further explanations on this agenda point. Namely, as you know, with the US government's intermediation, an international one institution, the International Mine Removal Fund, has been formed, and it has taken care of the people who are suffering from mines. In this regard, Slovenac, together with the US government, the World Bank and other donor countries, organised two donor conferences, gathering funding for the implementation of these projects. BiH, as unfortunately one of the few countries that has the world's largest mine concentration, is very interested in this project and the action of the International Fund in the previous period was mainly focused on BiH. The previous donor conference, which was held for the purpose of raising funding, has also been assessed in our opinion and international assistants as very successful and projected $24m, as the goal of the donor conference has been collected, of which some $13.2m has been implemented. In line with the Council of Ministers' conclusions, i.e. in spirit with the proposition of the International Mine Removed Mines Fund and the management of the victims of mine-explosive funds, the Foreign Ministry has sent this information to meet the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in this case the PSBiH House of Representatives on the results of the activities so far and how they are moving forward with some plans. From the bilateral talks that we have had with representatives of the Slovenian government and the proper leadership of this international fund, which performs this activity, we have information that activities in this sense are well under way, however, there is an objective and subjective environment which unfortunately does not indicate that BiH, as the country that is the biggest victim of mines and mine-explosive assets, will still solve this problem in the foreseeable future. Namely, the most optimistic forecasts also suggest that BiH will not remove mine-explosive funds over the next 30-50 years. I would only conclude, therefore, the envisaged activities in the work of the International Fund are being carried out as planned, however, it is still not in the extent that BiH should help, as well as other countries, unfortunately, in the region, that is, our first neighbours, who are also exposed to similar problems due to past acts of war and still have the same problems as BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5086	Thank you very much. Here, we heard the report. Therefore, we have read this realization of the plan, and here, we have heard, read the material, received knowledge. Any objections to all this, to Mr. Secretary's exposure. Any suggestions, please, if anyone has on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5087	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I have no objection to what was done in '99. One year, I went out to support this plan for 2000, or their request for one, to raise funds for 2000, as you can see, here at the end of this information says it will take 10 to 14 million dollars to raise, so much money from the United States, if I understand it correctly. We will probably have at the next session, if the College makes an effort to obtain information about the preparations for the donor conference, I would at least explain to us how acute the issue of demining is and how long we will be demining at this pace. I think we should give support to the authorities working on this to raise funds and, if there's no other way out, at least at a donor conference.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5088	Ladies and gentlemen, the only more important thing in BiH than the local elections that were a few days ago is the death of three children, who died here in the Bosnian fields of death, according to one of the BiH lists today. The death of three children of 10, 11 and 12 is, I think, the only thing that I think here could unite this Parliamentary Assembly on the issues of support for demining in BiH in the coming years, because as things stand, we will not solve the problem of victims and mines for one long years. That is why I would like, of course, to support all the efforts of the international community and all the efforts of domestic experts on these projects, and I would like to join Mrs. Muminagić's request regarding projects within the Stability Pact in South-Eastern Europe concerning this issue and I would like to really be in this problem, that tiny, rather unpleasant replica between meadows and pastures, marked by political notes, to tell us about meadows and pastures being the story of what they originally are, and not of what we in our replicas, here at parliament, of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5089	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5090	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Mrs. Muminagić's proposal, and, behold, Mr. Rasim Kadić took some of what I was about to say, which is to express my deep condolences to the families who lost their children yesterday, it is the death of a 12-year-old girl and two 11-year-old boys who, playing on one such meadow, have lost their lives. The removal of mines is not only a loss of human factor, which is, of course, the most important, but also the loss of enormous surfaces of arable, so that it has its significant economic aspect, and the third aspect is a significant reduction in return precisely because of the mined villages and settlements, because the returnees are afraid to return to areas that are mined, it has a threefold fact and I therefore, of all heart, support any possibility of getting funds for demining.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5091	Thank you very much, Mrs. Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5092	First of all, I also join all MPs and I think that collectively, as a House of Representatives, we should express our condolences to families whose children have been killed and I would suggest that we do so collectively, and that I, in my name, express my deepest condolences and pray that we do so together, that we do not all go this way individually, because we know that we all have compassion for our families and don't give Bog such a tragedy. Secondly, perhaps one question before my proposal, I thought I would suggest here that the House of Representatives draws conclusions or a recommendation to appeal to all international donors and all other international and financial entities to help implement the demining programme in BiH. To draw one conclusion in terms of appeal to the international and domestic public for the realization of this project, because this is an extremely important project for the people, because it frees us all if the youngest is going to pass this way and I think we have to, whether this conclusion is the best way to go, but I think that in any case we should reach such a conclusion, so, if nothing else, we should send the means of informing the international and local public, and the Council of Europe should be given this kind of appeal, that the Council of Europe Assembly should support and recommend donors and finance to support this project.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5093	I would not repeat what my predecessors have said except that I would underline that we really need to welcome the support of the international community to solve this huge problem, but at the same time, I want to stress that I cannot be satisfied with the length of the deadline that this demining is scheduled to take place. I'm deeply convinced that no one here can be satisfied with that deadline, and what I'm afraid of, there are today electronic means and physical means of demining, and that should be significantly, significantly more effective. What I'm afraid of, and here, and I'm going to say in public here is that about many tragedies related to existing mines, real and various types of business and that there are institutions that plan their existence in the long run based on it. So I ask the Council of Ministers to make a serious report on this matter, a full report, perhaps not a good word, seriously, I apologize, a comprehensive, detailed report on this matter and to find a way to make this deadline 30 to 50 years, I cannot accept it, that this deadline is considerably shortened and that a financial project is made during 5, 10, 15 and up to 40 years. What does that mean? I'm convinced that you can, and I'm not speaking in my head, if I say that this is what all kinds of businesses are about, from private to institutional.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5094	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on this one of the tragic cases, which has taken the lives of young people, it is, of course, understandable our compassion for the family, but there is a responsibility of the community, which today has such knowledge that such a state of space in BiH is necessary, however, to draw some conclusion regarding this problem. First, I think it is noticeable that in the last year – two days, it is completely thrown out of the first plan of our public responsibility, and in parliaments of all levels of government, governments of all levels, and in particular there is not enough responsibility to mark the mined places that have been identified, it is very serious, it is mostly raining any snow, chase, simply, yellow ribbons and remain, let's say, places that are completely mined, left abandoned and by guards who are tasked with blocking the departure of people who do not know that in the neighbouring forest, in the neighbouring area, they can be found dead there. For me, the first conclusion is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly recommends to the BiH Council of Ministers and recommends that all governments in BiH, local, entity and cantonal, demand very precisely the responsibility and personalities, officials, ministries and structures that will worry about marking and alerting such mines. That's the first one. Secondly, the question arises, what is the compensation and insurance of those who suffer and who are being prosecuted, the public, if someone gets hurt, and if these are the causes of this tragedy, whether it's about new people with disabilities, whether it's about injuries and death. The third question I would like to recommend as a proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the public, is to help radio-television stations, media, press, well, here, and this public service of BiH Television, but also other media throughout BiH, to find funds for two directions. First, for an informative campaign, which would be very clear and renewed in BiH, that people know what dangers, especially children, but also adults, what dangers this may have. Secondly, to support itself more strongly in education ministries, at different levels, a precise programme that would strengthen the information programme and educational education of children, adults and the elderly in relation to this problem. It is obvious that it is necessary to return to the first plan of informing about the real consequences of this war and about the real problems people will face, for 10 – 20 – 30 years, these are life-longs, and that is why it would be important for us to recommend to the ministries, I think that we can do so, that educational programmes and information programmes and information campaigns lead in the interests of the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5095	Thank you very much. Just so we don't repeat ourselves. I will propose a conclusion to the families who are unhappy, send, direct from here expressions of condolences, officially in front of the PSBiH House of Representatives, and this project will support and appeal to its implementation, and education in terms of prevention in this issue. Let us not repeat ourselves, in that sense we will vote one conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5096	Thank you. Speakers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, so as not to leave a bitter impression of this debate on one very difficult subject, on a very difficult concrete event, and that, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or MPs, would not only stay on the request for funds from others, in order to promote a personal example, I propose, with all these conclusions that we have had here, that, in addition to the expression of condolences, the PSBiH House of Representatives will reach a conclusion that a monthly break of all 42 MPs – representatives of the PSBiH House of Representatives, as a personal example of representatives of political parties, i.e. elected MPs and MPs, will be paid into the Mine Demination and Help Fund, and that the decision goes with our request to the international community to strengthen this fund.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5097	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Here, I think we've exhausted the debate, we all feel the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5098	Ladies and gentlemen, since there have been some questions as to why this process is not speeding up, I share your concerns and your impatience entirely. However, through certain information that the BiH Demining Commission, which existes, as you know, through information and talks with international participants that help solve this problem, I need to point out to you a very difficult problem that is related to the mine removal process in BiH. Unfortunately, in the past war, mining and setting up mine-explosives has been done at random. You don't exactly have a plan or a map or where it is, and that's where these incidents happen. Perhaps in order to reduce this risk, I would make another appeal for all those who know anything about certain minefields to be set up to deliver this information to our demining commission. As for the speed of solving this problem, it all depends on how much information we have on mine-explosive assets and regions where they are placed, and also on the flow of donor aid, because most of the equipment with which we are trying to get to the mine-explosive means is very expensive, if it is on an unaccessible field or if it is on an accessible field, then it requires a slightly different, specific and mechanical and equipment, etc. So, I would join all these appeals with a request that all those who know anything about setting up, and on which ground, and where mine-explosive means, deliver such information to the Demining Commission, in order to make timely markings, if each of these explosives is not succeeded.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5099	Thank you very much. I think we've exhausted this debate, and I, here, once again say, once again I repeat the conclusion of this agenda point. To the families of the disillusioned, to give the expressions of compassion, under number one. Under number two, to support this project, to appeal to all those who are in charge of it until the end, effective measures to protect and prevent and educate people in order to make any less and finally appeal, according to Mr. Minister as he has now discussed, that all those who know anything about mine and explosive means and their setting, finding and, I don't know, to make an appeal to them, to transfer information to certain institutions as soon as possible. Can we conclude this discussion with this, or are we in favour of this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5100	And let's give these 400.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5101	We also have this Tokićev, I'm sorry, Tokić, please. We finally have this proposal to give the monthly flat-rate demining fund. We're giving this as a special vote, I think we need it. Who's in favor of giving one of the cobwebs to this fund? I don't know if you understand the question. The shower Mr. Tokić suggested here. - Who's against it? To lead to the end of the vote. - Who's from the Federation of BiH for this proposal? Thank you. - Who's against this proposal? - From RS, who's in? Thank you very much. - Who's against the proposal? This proposal has passed on an entity level as well. Thank you very much. Ad. 11. Granting consent to ratify these proposals (a),b),c),d),e,f),g). I suggest we vote these proposals in the package. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? There's no one here. These proposals have passed, i.e. they have been agreed to ratify these agreements. Any objections to the vote? Thank you very much. We move to the 12th agenda point that appeared several times here in front of this lofty home. Ad.12. Confirming the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy here we have three men. You've got their names, they've been around here a couple of times. I'm putting this item on the agenda now. If you do, we'll vote again in a package for all three people. Here you go, gentlemen. No Niko's answering. Who is it that these three persons, presented to us by name and last name, are put on these duties, do you have the exact names of these three, have been read here several times at the PSBiH House of Representatives. I think you've got that in your materials, too. We have the appointment of Mr Ivan Miletić to the office of Chief Auditor-General, i.e. Mr Samir Mušović and Dragan Kuline, as Deputy Chief Auditor-General. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? - 2. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? Against? From the RS, who's in? Thank you. Against? We believe that this proposal for auditors, i.e. for these duties, has passed. So these people are adopted, we figure it out. These three names you had here, Mr. Ivan Miletić, at the office of the chief auditor, Mr. Samir Mušović and Dragan Kulina were appointed as deputy chief auditor. Thank you very much. Just please, about the Constitutional Commission. Here, we take a break for lunch an hour, until the Constitutional Commission sits down and gives us an opinion on the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'm calling on one more MPs in the hallway to come in. [[PAUZA]] I find that there are 25 of us, though. We have a quorum for decision-making and hard work. By going to the 13th point, I think I should say a few words here. The previous vote of the agenda envisioned the issue of Mr Ibrahim Đedović. Fortunately, we have Mr. Đedović here among us, so, therefore, I asked Mr. Špirić to give up that item he suggested for the agenda, which he did, instead of that point, we place the 13th point of the agenda. Ad.13. The proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH Ministries According to this, we move to this point of the agenda and ask the Commission for constitutional questions to refer to us on its meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5102	koleginica Members and colleagues, the Constitutional Commission considers that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. We didn't go into content, it was left to the MPs. As far as the Constitutional Commission is concerned, you've heard everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5103	Thank you very much. Here's the report. On this proposed law, we have amendments. I will ask that the people who have submitted the amendments best and explain them, i.e., I think they will do the best. I open the debate and invite Mr Nikola Špirić to explain his 3 or 4 amendments that he has submitted here. That's fine, Mr. Špirić, who's calling for an argument? Looks like you'll be up, though, Špirić. Does anyone want to discuss this topic? Here comes Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, who has been away so far, and we welcome him. I said hello to him before the election.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5104	Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly give a general view of this law, then, of course, I will move on to amendments. I don't argue that this bill, probably puts a lot of work into it and a lot of conversation, but I think with this law nothing new, quality, BiH won't get, and here, I'll try to explain it. Namely, I received a bill, where no one knew who the author was, and called on the BiH presidency, and the BiH Presidency, under the constitution, at least I could find no point in the constitution where it was said that the BiH presidency could propose legal projects. So, it looks like anything can happen here, even that. So now he's the promoter, I think, of the College of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In the light of the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, Article 4, paragraphs 4a and 5, paragraph 4. The BiH Constitution, forgets, or deliberately releases Article 4(a) which states: all government functions and powers that are not explicitly entrusted to BiH institutions belong to entities. Hence, the extension of powers and the number of ministries under the Council of Ministers of BiH requires, above all, entity consent, carried out with Article 4, point 5. The BiH Constitution. I don't want to argue whether it's 5 – 6 – 10 – 20 ministries, but I think that we should cherish the procedure in terms of how it can get in the way of changing those things that are affecting the Constitution of BiH, that is, how to conduct concerted activities so that there are no possible disputes. What I have as Amendment No. 1, refers to Article 3. The law, the text of this law, which says in the bill: The Council of Ministers of BiH consists of the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is also Minister of One Ministry and Five Ministers, Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Minister for the Treasury of BiH, Minister for European Integration and the Stability Pact and the other three ministries that have been so far. I propose a new text, where it says, of the existing text of Article 3. Replace the law with the text. Here's why I want to explain it to you. I think that this, of course, is a political debate. One who deals with the profession or even thinks of himself as a professional can't stand behind such a proposal. This is unseen in the world. List to me, listen, Minister of European Integration and Stability Pact. Give me a country that simply takes care of the Stability Pact, that it has a ministry. I want to say my feeling, that it has tried here, from the BiH Presidency to the others, to give the knowledge to the international community that we will, of course, take care of BiH's inclusion in the Stability Pact, but the task and the keeping of accounts is the task of the complete BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and others. Second of all, I think the title of Minister for the Treasury of the BiH institutions... It's never been seen anywhere in the world. He can't do that, first he doesn't suffer professional criticism, not to speak politically. If this is the introduction of the finance ministry to a small door, and basically it is, because you all know what the vault is, what the theoretical and practical meaning of the vault means, then we need to open up some other discussions here. So to resolve these matters, I propose a new text that reads, the Council of Ministers of BiH constitute the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, two ministers without portfolios, so the chair and ministers without portfolio would coordinate all activities related to various declarations, bonsk, Madrid, etc. and the remaining three ministries would remain unchanged, Foreign Minister, Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The presidency of the BiH Council of Ministers would take eight months after that, the BiH presidency will appoint another BiH Council of Ministers from another constituent nation, the order of ministers without portfolios, with ministers without portfolios not having assistants and deputies. This would be a coherent relationship and would move towards functioning, I am convinced, the BiH Council of Ministers and will achieve new quality results in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Amendment number 2 refers to Article 8 requesting an amendment to the first indent, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers resigns if at any time one of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes votes untrusted. I suggest that the other text of this article remain the same. Here's why. The House of Peoples does not confirm the composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, it is done by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's representative council. We talked earlier, we had a debate for a year, whether the Council of Ministers is working, how, in what way, and here we have definitely blocked that there is no way to, say, replace the Council of Ministers of BiH if it does not work well. I don't think what we've been doing and the debates we've been having are on the line to come up with some quality solution. I got a warning that what I'm proposing is not in accordance with the Constitution. Since I'm a man who's committed to protecting the Constitution, I can make this amendment and withdraw, but there are a lot of things that go through here, which are not in accordance with the Constitution, and they're said to be. I think that we must make such a law that will allow the Council of Ministers of BiH to be replaced when it is assessed, when this Council of Representatives estimates that it is not working well. Amendment number 3. The current text of Article 38, I propose to amend the text of the "BiH Ministry" with the text "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the two ministries without portfolios". Since the reasons for this bill tax-listed portfolios are, therefore, the tasks of ministers, the newly appointed ministries, I propose that a new member of 39 be defined, which would read: The task of the portfolio-free ministries would be coordination and activities related to Article 3, paragraph 1. The constitution concerning the issue of refugees and asylum in BiH, the provision of conditions for the smooth functioning of the BiH Treasury, if adopted, and the implementation of measures necessary to include BiH in the European integration processes and coordination of activities under the Stability Pact. That would be the task of these ministries without portfolios. It would thus provide both consensus and parity, a logical rotation, as the co-chairman, when his mandate expires, would at the same time become the minister without a portfolio and slowly continue to do what he was doing as the chairman. Everything else is on the line of insinuating things and, after all, I don't think it's in line with what I've been invited to, to Article 3, point 5. The BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5105	Thank you very much. I have one request and one information here. I ask the representatives of the public to enter from now on at the bottom door, because this door is intended only for MPs, i.e., as an internal entrance, this is just a technical note.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5106	I welcome the esteemed colleagues of the chairman, distinguished fellow Members, guests and representatives of the public information funds. Given that I first applied for the discussion when it comes to the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, I have in principle several, above all, essential remarks. The basic remark is on the very text of the proposal for this law, which has absolutely no preamble. I've had a conversation with professional services on this issue, I've got an answer that absolutely doesn't satisfy me, and the answer is, I'm going to try to reproduce it, that there's an explanation of what the constitutional basis is, and really, when you read the argument, all of this is in the explanation, in any case it should be and it should be in the preamble of this legislation. In that context, I suggest you do it that way. That the proposal should be complemented in that sense, because when we adopt the law, then we adopt the law in the integral text, which must contain the preamble, the text and certain provisions that apply to it when it enters into force, etc. I have to find out here that, unfortunately, it's not the first time, that these are the plans and the proposals of certain legal projects we get. In that context, I don't think that should happen in the future. As for Article 6, I will immediately here, and regarding Amendment 2, I shall say, referring to the provisions that I have decidently stated here, of Annex IV of the Dayton Agreement, Article 1, point 3, to the provision of Article 1, point 3. The BiH Constitution, which states that BiH is composed of two equal entities. In this context, I believe that the only solution is the correct solution, that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers should be at this post and that half of the mandate is carried out, and half of the mandates should be held by representatives, i.e. the chairmanship of the other two constituent nations. Any other solution I think would be contrary to both the Dayton Agreement and the BiH Constitution. Also, regarding the enlargement of the ministries, in Article 38, I find it, and I very much support the discussion of the predecessors, that by increasing the ministries, as proposed in this proposal, I think that the provisions of Article 3 are absolutely adjudicated. The BiH Constitution, attitude 3a), I would not be particularly apostrophe here right now, as my colleague Špirić pointed out earlier. But I'd like to say a few more words here. The example works, the new ministry, the human rights ministry and refugees are proposed. So we at BiH level already have several institutions, among the ministries that exist in the RS for refugees and displaced persons, and in the Federation of BiH, there are also, besides this institution that deals exclusively with this problem, the problem of refugees and displaced persons, we have established and ombudsmen who also care about this category of persons, and there is also one Commission for Human Rights based in Sarajevo, which can directly address every citizen of BiH for the protection of their rights, not only property rights, but also in respect of compensation and any other damages and provisions of the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. That is why I find it truly a very strange proposal that came from the BiH presidency to install or form a new ministry called the Human Rights and Refugee Ministry. The Ministry of the Treasury of BiH, the Ministry of European Integration, would not particularly look back, since Nikola had already said a lot about it, but it may be necessary just to note, when it comes to the Ministry of the Treasury of the BiH institutions, again I cannot without going back to this provision of Article 3. Constitution, 3a). where it is said: “Everything which is not explicitly indicated by this Constitution as belonging to entities”. As far as I know, and I follow the RS Assembly regularly, this has not been discussed at all. I am deeply convinced that MPs, Serbian MPs from RS, do not have the mandate to decide today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5107	The proposer of this law is three members of the College, as MPs, is that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5108	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5109	Here, we have here, anyway, a debate about what... A record from the 17th session of the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 12 April 2000. The sitting began then and then and attended, and was proposed for the session and adopted the following agenda: 1. A review of the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH ministries, a proposal from the College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ad.1. After the debate was held, the Commission concluded that there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law and did not enter into the content of the Law by noting that the College could not propose the Law, but members of the College individually, as MPs. I hereby answer this question that the College is part of: Mr Mirko Banjac, Pero Skopljak and Halid Genjac, as representatives, have made a proposal for this law. We'll replace that in the text. Thank you very much. I must put your amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5110	I would only pray, that it would not remain unclear, since they have presented their proposals, since we heard Mr. Deretić's proposals, the last proposal was, and before that was Mr. Špirić. Now we've made it very clear who will respond to the amendments, whether or not you accept the amendments, that's very important. One of the three members of the College on behalf of you will answer those questions. I have to ask you something, since I didn't hear or understand your suggestion, when I looked at it, when you were talking about some members of the law, Mr. Deretić, you mentioned some kind of rotational mandate I didn't understand. If you would be kind, you do not have to react immediately, it is not a replica, but when Mrs. Havel is finished, and if anyone else has amendments, that before we speak, you explain what you mean by sharing the full term of eight months, half of the mandate that you said, I do not know which six, three, two, I do not know which, I did not understand, that half of the mandate has a representative, as far as I understand, of the Serbian people, as I understand it, and that the other half is shared by the other two constitutive peoples. I didn't understand it, so since I didn't get what you were about to say, I'd ask that, before you get the chance to explain yourself, that you explain it to us, after Havel and others. I didn't understand you, so please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5111	Mrs. Ana Havel needs to explain her amendment, and then Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5112	Honorable MPs, I have only put this amendment forward in order to specify the agreed principles. The principles for the adoption of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law are agreed. I think they're built in here and I hope that, given the really great need to pass this law, this law today will be passed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5113	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like here to make some principled remarks on this draft law, I treat it as a draft coming from the BiH Presidency, if I may say so, that is the BiH Presidency Draft, as far as I can understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5114	No, it's three MPs now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5115	I would like to repeat some of the principles, because, in my opinion, it is a violation of the BiH Constitution, which we had previously presented, and regardless of which, we reserve the right, at the end of the discussion, to say something more about this and to, in accordance with the needs of the state, at this point and to define ourselves. According to the party's position for BiH, this is a violation of the Constitution by two principles. The first principle is the principle of discrimination. The draft introduces the principle, or outlines the BiH presidency principle and the principle of the House of Peoples, the central bank principle in some segments. We introduce here principles that are otherwise marked as discriminatory and bad and in accordance with international, especially European standards and conventions. After this, a member of the BiH Council of Ministers and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers cannot be anyone who is not Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat. Any citizen under the Constitution can be that, this discriminatory provision is introduced where it is not under the Constitution. There is one in the BiH Presidency, there is one in the House of Peoples, there is one in the Central Bank, but it is not in the BiH Council of Ministers, so this discriminatory provision is being introduced where it was not, in my opinion, which reflects a general trend of ethnic division in BiH, at all levels and in all possible ways including elections in which, unfortunately, we all participate, including my party. The second principle is that the decisive word on the personal composition of the BiH Council of Ministers has this representative home of the PSBiH. If, in the personal composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives does not decide, then the elections are completely meaningless. We are introducing something that does not exist in the Constitution and these two principles, the principle of discrimination and the principle that the House of Representatives confirms or rejects the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is clearly stated in the Constitution, thus violating these two principles of the Constitution and we must be aware, I am aware at this moment that this draft is not constitutional and may happen to us that the Constitutional Court of BiH once again declares law or certain provisions, some members of this law on the BiH Council of Ministers unconstitutional. When I spoke of the first principle, it is the principle of discrimination, we must take account of Article 9, behind the general provisions that balance when it comes to the proportion of the representation of the people. Secondly, the BiH Council of Ministers, regardless of its personal composition, cannot conduct majorisation or work on the expense of the people's vital interests. For what? Because the House of Representatives has two options, it has, first of all, the House of Peoples, the possibility to protect vital national interests, if they are violated and secondly, this House of Representatives has the opportunity to vote non-confidentially on the BiH Council of Ministers. Therefore, given that such an effective protection mechanism exists and that the House of Representatives had it in its hand, the situation from the BiH Presidency, the House of Peoples at the Council of Ministers of BiH, is not only constitutional, but also blocked, in my opinion. I'd stop at this one here, I wouldn't go into the metrics itself. From my experience, this Council of Ministers of BiH will, in some ways, be crucified between the BiH presidency, because the BiH Presidency is given here in the Constitution, so the BiH Council of Ministers is also responding to the BiH Presidency, although it is responding, according to the Constitution, to a report to the House of Representatives and completed. This is where the BiH Presidency is involved. Between the entities, between the two entities, between the BiH presidency, between Parliament and such a Council of Ministers, they will not be able to respond to the tasks, not because of weaknesses that are inherent in the system itself, but also because of the fact that the existing Council or Council of Ministers of BiH which is unconstitutional, according to the BiH Constitutional Court, and so far worked under such conditions, and we know very well what these restrictions are, but, above all, I came out to say, by retaining the right to report afterwards, to say that by two grounds, the BiH Constitution is being violated by this draft.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5116	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are ahead of a big test, are we finally behind the big words about European integration and our work? Surely this proposal of the Council of Ministers law is not ideal and that everyone would bring their own, someone with the intention of truly correcting it, how he sees things, and someone with the intention of preventing something that he fears might come, guided by experience, what is possible in these areas of ours, but, I say, I think that today, indeed, we should show a minimum readiness for compromise and for the adoption of what, first of all, is not against the Constitution because this House must neither work nor work, which it will not, which is in accordance with the Constitution, and which will not endanger any of the peoples of BiH. In that context, I would say that I could not agree with my predecessor, when he commented that some of the things defined by the Constitution, relating to the BiH Presidency and the Council of the People, were repainted here, it is true that the Constitution does not say that this painting is done in the BiH Council of Ministers, but the Constitution does not say that it cannot be done. The constitution doesn't define it. As the practice speaks and as we did, here, this time behind the Dayton Agreement, the only way to guarantee that through this body will be protected interests of all three constituent nations, is, I think, this very proposal as it is here. If the time comes, it's shown in 2 or 3 years that it wasn't necessary, this wasn't made for centuries. This isn't against the Constitution, to be clear. It's not written in the Constitution to be one by one, but it's not against the Constitution either. The amendment submitted by Mr Špirić, Amendment number 2, is partly acceptable to me and I would modify it in the next sense and I would suggest that the Proposer consider, too, that his article 8 be adapted. It is said here when the BiH Council of Ministers resigns and the bill states that when both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly vote for mistrust, amendment number 2 Mr Špirić says: "When one of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes votes non-trust". My proposal is the third. To make it so that when the BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative council shows him no confidence. This is because the Council of Representatives and confirms the selection of members, i.e. the choice of councils, chairpersons and the selection of councils, it is therefore logical that the Representative Council should also show him no confidence. It's true that you can ask the question whether it's under the Constitution. According to the constitution, the BiH Council of Ministers will resign when the BiH Parliamentary Assembly votes to his mistrust. But when the Parliamentary Assembly is added to the Parliamentary Assembly, I think this can be satisfied. I don't insist on it, but it seems logical, and it's also not against the Constitution. The constitutional criteria are met. The number of ministers can also be discussed here. There are six here now, whether the ministers without a portfolio or as suggested, as it stands in this proposal, I will adjust my position in the end, but I think it might be good to have a middle solution again. I stand behind that we need the Ministry of European Integration, because under the Constitution of BiH, BiH is in full charge, foreign policy relations are within the competence of BiH institutions. We will have to, if we really want to truly into European integration, not just in the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is a visa for European integration, then we'll have to have, I'm deeply convinced, one such ministry. I would remind you that the Slovenian Government may have one of the strongest, not to say one of the strongest, one of the strongest ministries that is just the Ministry of European Integration, which numbers over hundreds of experts, assistants, officials, and which, when we were last time, only last year have translated thousands and thousands of materials, various economic regulations, rights from Europe and which, of course, try to install into their own system. So, once again, I support this ministry, and I leave the question, indeed, whether the Ministers for, as it stands here, refugees and Minister of the Treasury, I think it would be better if they were ministers without portfolios, and in their jurisdiction, among other things, those jobs that are scheduled here to do so by these two ministries.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5117	Thank you very much, Mr. Dokić, you will make your amendment in writing to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5118	I apologize, I just missed out on this amendment by my colleague Špirić, number two, where he says, "The BiH Council of Ministers resigns if one of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes votes in confidence at any time." In that context, Mr Dokić now discussed it. I will only read here, literally from the Constitution of BiH, Article 5, point 4, under c) "The Ministerial Council will resign whenever the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH votes no confidence". This implies both home and home, not just one home or another. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5119	With regard to the discussion of three members of our home and members of the College, the submissions of this proposal, I would like to give you the recognition that you have made an effort to protect the interests wherever you may have been, and I see these in black letters written, the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by already one proposal and a draft which was, in fact, exclusively the relationship between the BiH Presidency - the Council of Ministers of BiH. You have made, however, a major contribution and I see that this contribution here is expressed in black letters, where you have made it possible to discuss the relationship between the PSBiH House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency, so I do not think that this is a small effort that you have made to bring into all possible provisions concerning the relationship between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is what is necessary, that is, my first impression on the basis of the proposal. So, to protect your interests, you tried to protect, as far as you could, the interests of the BiH Assembly as a legislative body, which is responsible for doing this job properly and has a primary role in relation to the BiH presidency. Another thing I'd like to say about what you've made as a proposal, or a draft of this law, because you skipped all the stages and you gave it right away, you didn't say it was a short procedure, so you immediately pushed the proposal. This was supposed to be a draft. But I think you might have transferred here a little bit, that's a formal remark. Here's your draft. I don't think you have any business opportunities to make a suggestion right now. I mean, if you can, then fine, but you guys just make sure we don't make any formal mistakes. As for the proposal or the draft, as anyone understands it, I would like to warn that it is good that, in relation to the amendments we have received so far, it is clear that you have tried to prevent it from definitely being an inter-entity government, you have tried to be, however, the Council of Ministers of BiH. There is one effort, because all the amendments that have been made to your draft or proposal refer to proposals that should create an inter-entity government of BiH. Such a government exists neither in the Constitution nor in the spirit, nor in the letter of the Constitution, nor in the Dayton Peace Agreement, and it is good that you resist it as a College. As for the relations between the BiH Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I would like to draw attention to Article 7. I don't think you can, as legislators, think it wouldn't be right to stand behind this proposal, so I suggest you consider after this discussion and rephrase those views, that members of the BiH Council of Ministers and deputy ministers can resign without reason. It's not, you know, a private job that they've been chosen to do, that I can't explain anything to anyone, that I can leave when I want my place, that I don't understand. It would be good to say that I can't leave without an explanation, in fact, so, you're going to be a month, two days a minister, and you don't like something, you get angry at someone at a session or you have some family issues, and you leave that council of ministers, we barely make it a law anyway, but really without any reason to leave one body, it's not delicious. Maybe it's possible business, you're right. As for the second sentence, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers resigns from the BiH presidency. Under the constitution, the BiH presidency appoints this candidate or this man who, the minister, the president, means the first man of the BiH Council of Ministers, but cannot exist at all as a function until he is approved by the PSBiH House of Representatives. In fact, he could not resign from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. He can raise his questions at the BiH presidency, but I don't see any reason why someone who approves him is more important than the one who approves him of his function and the one to whom he has to submit the work programme, I guess he has to resign, means that he's off in this part, you haven't worked very hard to preserve the integrity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. With regard to what I think is very good here today, Mr Dokić has accentuated, these are the names of these ministries, where you have tried to go back four years and on that proposal that has been led by the dispute already in the beginning, after the Dayton Peace Agreement, whether we should be one dry council of ministers of two, three MPs and a rotation or we will do with the full capacity of the council of ministers to work. For four years we have lost and now finally the same, in fact, people, the same circle of politicians, the same political forces are proposing a new 5+1 synergy with a very concrete and relatively good choice of ministries, and here I think it is quite correct to remain European integration and this is already well explained. In the end, about what we can do. The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was founded, and was not accidentally elected to the Constitution as a body approved, above all, by the election and appointment of the minister, the president, means, the prime minister or whatever you call him, the chairman, and, of course, the government. There is one effort here that you could do and that you can still do, that, before it comes into force, when we approve it, when the proposal passes, just as the report, the report on the work, cannot report on unhappiness. It would be correct if one who comes into force, who we approve of also submitting the council's work programme, because I guess that makes sense, is connected to one another. Out of the obligation, that he is obliged to submit a work report, it comes out that when approved, I think it can be installed, its appointment, it is approved with one programme concerning the work of the council of ministers, because now we have new ministries and councils, etc. I think technically you can do it, and we can suggest it by the members. Now with regard to the spirit of this entire composition. I believe it is minimal in members 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 of the relationship between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Council of Ministers. I suggest that in the BiH Council of Ministers, to continue working on this draft or proposal, try to bring it into line with the Constitution, the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. From the practice they had, here, for example, according to Article 29, the Council of Ministers of BiH could send whoever it wants, as an authorised representative to meetings of homes and working committees. In my opinion, it should be very strict to refer to ministers and their deputies, not authorized representatives, as if we had some huge ministry and some government and state where it's all very complicated. I'd like you to point out more, as you've done well, to further strengthen your position. As for this work on the adoption of the law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH ministries, I think it is a good attempt to respond to the internal, above all, needs to have an economic and social programme and a programme of European integration, and then, of course, international obligations that BiH has, to have. As far as compromise is concerned, the only logical compromise is, in this case, to realize that wherever we have here a deviation from the Constitution, when it comes to the elections, when it comes to the majority chosen here, the forces of the political ones who have won, etc., that this should be kept in mind that this is simply one way out of an existing dead situation where we don't have power.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5120	Mr. Divković, do you have a replica or, okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5121	Mr. Chairman, this is an intervention of a business nature and it's directed to you. I, and we from the SDP, a while ago, got here a report on an effort to reach agreement, and I think other colleagues got it, where it says, under point 1. The draft law on the Council of Ministers is proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, where no agreement has been reached. That means, on business, that we should go on here until the end of the statement of the law after the failure of consent. So we haven't completed the procedure for the BiH Council of Ministers' Law on Proposing Mr. Tokić and myself. We are discussing the Law that you have proposed, as representatives, members of the College, and we have not completed the commitment, meaning, a statement on the earlier proposal. I think it would be very good to complete the statement on the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, Proposer Mr. Tokić and I'll discuss the bill that you have referred to in the procedure afterwards.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5122	In the name of the Kolegijum, let me tell you, the exact conclusion of MP Divković, however, the honourable sir, these are two separate laws and when one is adopted, so God forbid and the other, then the first one will cease to apply, because two cannot exist, there is a transitional provision, therefore, there is no need for us to violate this debate now, because there is, there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5123	I'm just explaining my position. All I'm asking is that the law that first entered the procedure, that this procedure ends and there's no problem. I am not asked to get off the debate of your bill, which you have sent, not but to have the debate, that is, a plea under the law that we have set, which has been discussed, which you have also pleaded to be completed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5124	Dear MPs, obviously we've extended a little bit with this session, so we're not in progress. Namely, all this stands for what Mr. Divković said, however, it was happening at the same session, it is still the 18th session. So we have to finish 18. I'll sit down and then talk again about the bill you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5125	To make a deal, we need to take a break of 10 minutes. As you know, we have this proposal that we are the Law that was at the agreement and the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Tokić and Divković, we downloaded this, at the agreement he did not pass. [[PAUZA]] Therefore, the opinion of some MPs is that we should complete this vote, bring it to an end. But since we haven't put that part on the agenda, I think we should finish this item of the agenda that we're discussing now, and then make a statement about this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5126	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today, we have voted in line with the principles of responsible behaviour towards BiH institutions on the adoption of the law, to have, at the addition of the 18th session, a proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers. Obviously, the College made one procedureal, I'd say, one procedural failure, which and that previous thing that was controversial didn't put to the vote, but I would, of course, look back at the other thing. It seems to me, and despite the three members' noble intentions, however, it was too quick to put forward the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, as MPs had almost less than one day to propose the amendments. Therefore, in view of the amount and severity of the comments made in this respect, which are from technical to observations by Mr Silajdžić on constitutional grounds for the adoption of such a law, I would suggest to the motions that during the sittings, as they have publicly stated that they are the legislators of the Law, at the suggestion of the Constitutional Commission, rename the proposal to the draft law of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the obligation to immediately schedule today a new session of the House of Representatives, where this law, as undoubtedly one of the most significant laws at this time, will be the point of the agenda and when it will be able to sum up both the debate and the amendments and suggestions and indeed come up with a proposal for a law that could be given to the primary majority, and to be in line with the Constitution of BiH. The second thing, this House of Representatives has experience regarding the BiH Constitutional Court's assessment of the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act. I fully agree with Mr Silajdžić about the doubts, regarding constitutionality and this law in certain provisions. Therefore, I would like very clearly to say that I am not prepared, as an MP, this time to pass a law that will again be declared unconstitutional by the BiH Constitutional Court tomorrow. We do not have the right to violate our own constitution to allegedly solve some major political problems in BiH, and we should do the opposite. We need to respect the BiH Constitution, so no matter how much it costs at this point, it is my very precise position. Thirdly, I could, of course, look back in the political sense and the amendment of Mr. Deretić, which, of course, is also in the spirit of democratic traditions of BiH, but which really represents a lot of steps backwards in terms of the distribution of certain places in BiH and which, if we start to analyze, would probably lead us to familiar debates at this home, so I propose to Mr. Deretić, I am glad that I have seen this kind of thinking about forming in BiH, but I don't think this will withstand a test of political decisions at this home. Specifically, gentlemen and legislators of the law, I suggest you declare this law a draft, to leave seven more days of debate until the new session, to try to follow the remarks on the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of this law that, and I will be very direct, to reduce the powers of the BiH Presidency in the text of this law. The powers of the BiH presidency in the text of this law are inadmissible and I believe that the BiH Council of Ministers must primarily correspond to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not to other bodies. To conclude, I hope that for the next seven days, with all that we have as amendments, which we had as a discussion, it will help us to really come to the text of the law on the BiH Council of Ministers for which there is a great need because we know that this as a sword hangs over our heads and on BiH's internal political stability, as well as on meeting the conditions for entry into the WE.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5127	You are well aware of the circumstances in which we have put this law on the agenda, therefore, I believe that, by respecting all these remarks we have made, we should keep in mind, if we are to have a proper and quality conversation. Mr. Divković, you have a discussion or a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5128	Since my last name has been mentioned, and regarding Amendment 2, in a negative context, we are Democrats, at least that's how we declare ourselves, then everyone can have their position, but I can't keep up with the findings of the previous debate that says Amendment 2, which I suggested, is a step back from the processes that are happening in BiH. Unfortunately, I am deeply convinced, and this is what I have advocated since the first day I entered this assembly hall, that the provisions of the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH should literally be followed. If the only other normative act provides that BiH is composed of two equal entities, then it is quite normal and means that in the same way one and the other entity participates, not only in the top authorities, when it comes to regulating certain relations at BiH level, and in this context I am deeply convinced that any other regulation of the issue of the chairman-in-Office, future president, or the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH is to the absolute harm of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5129	I thank Mr. Deretić for my question to explain to us what he meant at this point 2 and for Mr. Kadić's new incentive, finally specify what that position is. I underline, all those remarks and suggestions, which are three MPs, who are sitting here at this table now, chairing, as bearers of this proposal, give, as I would say, fall into the water, to waste themselves in front of this argument that we have just heard. BiH is a state that has the BiH Council of Ministers, it is not an inter-entity government, Mr. Deretić. It has nothing to do with the BiH Constitution. When it comes to the first remark, which is on the agenda for all of Europe and the world on BiH, it was about the functioning of the BiH state institutions. Look at all the papers signed by the BiH presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers and individual ministers in recent times, this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, they refer to one fact that is very clear. This is not about creating an inter-entity government of BiH and this practice of two prime ministers, representing BiH, on behalf of BiH, who are working on their own policies, which are making internal arrangements (where is something that is good for your amendment to end once as a debate?), it is about the BiH Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of BiH. Therefore, I am really pleased that you have explained this, but I would have to say that it would be necessary, not that I respond, but I am asking now that three motionaries, three MPs, who have appeared as legislators of this law, and you have made an amendment to that law, before we make a statement about your amendments, whether we accept it, refuse or refrain, that is our right, which is our right, which any amendment, my or yours, that they, however, have one author and that they set themselves according to these amendments, not to accept it, but to reject it only, but to say whether it is in accordance with what they have proposed. If they avoid the answer, like any amendments who have been offered here, and do not take these seven days of timeout, we will come to the situation that we will return the political debate to what was four years ago, which is why a rotten compromise was made, which is why the BiH Constitutional Court said it was an unconstitutional decision on the BiH Council of Ministers, we are returning, in fact, to issues that have nothing to do with the functioning of BiH institutions. This is about the Council of Ministers of BiH, not the Inter-entity Government, and I ask that the gentleman who proposed this law be made clear about your position, seven, as well as the other amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5130	This isn't the first time conscious water has gone wrong, here, it's the easiest formula I'm going to say about Mr. Predator's discussion, the previous debater. I am here when I spoke, I am absolutely clear on what is the function and what is the function, according to the Constitution, of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I was not talking about any government, even in no context did I mention that term at all, but I was just talking about the way and the length of the mandate of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Everything the predecessor said has absolutely nothing to do with what I've discussed and what my amendment is about. My amendment applies only to the equal attitude of acting as chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Since it is two equal entities, it is the BiH Council of Ministers at the level of the BiH state, it is only the length of the mandate and nothing else. Don't, please, impute me in the future some things that I didn't even think about at the given moment, and I was very precise here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5131	Since Mr. Lagumdžija has been waiting for a long time, and you are referring to those false allegations, I give my word to Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5132	Mr. Chairman, you have made a very elegant transition through my remarks on business intervention, related to a statement to the end of the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Tokić and myself. I fully understand the urgency and need to pass the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH as quickly as possible and welcome the College initiative, i.e., practically, you as an MP to adopt the law as an emergency procedure. I will be very happy to state myself about this law, too, but I want to remind you, here, I hold in my hand the law proposed by Mr. Tokić and I, we were also, as we are today, aware of the situation in which we are, that's November 17th last year. Since 17th of November last year, this law has been in the process and we haven't completed the procedure, gentlemen. I think it's extremely correct and it would be right for us, as representatives, and as for the SDP Club, and also for this home, to finish the job. This job can now be completed in one single, I think, possible way, which is, and it seems to me that one of the MPs suggested that your bill be converted into a draft to make a statement about your draft, and that at the next session, it was a new session or an extension of the 18th session, first declares our law, as it stands here, and then we declare your law. I think it would be the only correct attitude towards us MPs on proposals, initiatives that are our right, practically, business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5133	I only have concerning the incorrect allegations of what MP Spahić said. Let me tell you, I don't know, colleagues and colleagues, why we're going back to some things that suit us and we're just interpreting and extracting from the context what suits us, why we're doing it. It is only, obviously, with one intention to make it a political benefit, I understand that and I accept that, but the Constitutional Court, when it comes to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, has not annulled the Law, but certain provisions of that law, and to tell you immediately, do not use a text that you may not have before you to read. I'll tell you further. In its decision, the BiH Constitutional Court has not abolished either consensus, nor parity, although the full law was on the assessment of constitutionality. So all discussions that are going in this direction to challenge consensus and parity must at the same time challenge the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, that is correct. I have a decision, I have to make it. So, let me tell you, I don't mind and such debates, and these are discussions that have a purpose, as this debate that I am having has a purpose, and my debate aims to pass the law. Enough of the stories, gentlemen, how we want the law, and now we move it from day to day further and further, with what purpose? We say we want to go to Europe. We are crying for BiH's reception, and when we need to bring something concrete, no one in this country is hurting the head that the BiH Council of Ministers is not working, and it is not working. No one in this country hurts to say if we've crossed constitutional authority as far as this law is concerned, so that we can fix it, that we're building on something, that's what I'm up to. As far as the gentleman's initiative is concerned, if you'll allow me, I will now respond on behalf of the College fellow MP Divković. This question can be very simple solved here. It's not in the Rules of Procedure, and whoever thinks he has, let him show me now, that a statement about our alignment must be led to the next session, that's not true. I'm responsible for saying that's not true. We can, just wait till I'm done, you can raise both your hands as far as I'm concerned. Therefore, within three days, there can be three hours, it can be 15 minutes, therefore, the possibility of us going back to the point of the law that MP Divković is talking about to say there is today, that we stop at this point and get on with it and move on with this debate. Don't delay this law because we don't want him, so we're looking for modals not to accept him. Here, there is a modality entirely, if we adopt the law that MP Divković spoke of, we will stop discussing this, end of story, and we have the law. If we don't adopt him, we're moving on with the debate, we're going to do it because it's urgent for this country to do it. I do not dispute the initiative that MP Divković is talking about. She's a businessman as a possible solution, why not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5134	I would ask Mr. Deretić through this term of entity equality. I am afraid that in one quite simple way, a new political category is being introduced, concerning a national dimension, and what you say about equal treatment, is equal treatment for you, if 50% of the presidency of the BiH Council of Ministers acts as a representative of the Serb people, and after 25% of the mandates of that same, the representatives of the other two constituent nations, regardless of what some have congratulated Bošnjak for democratic consciousness after these last elections, I think this is a way of introducing this equal treatment a little bit too much and that it should not be easy to go over these things. Will you explain to me if you mean this under equal treatment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5135	It's a procedure, when you mention someone's name, then they have the right to react, otherwise there's no parliament, no procedures, there must be some rules of the game, we've agreed. On the occasion of the mention, I would like to say quite precisely, to see that the course of events goes counter to what is to respect the equal rights of MPs that I insisted on in my intervention. I've all given compliments to your efforts to protect the integrity and identity of this legislature. I still haven't said how I'm going to plead until I know if it's a draft or a proposal. Clearly, it can only be a draft, not a proposal, according to the Rules of Procedure, but it can be a draft. Secondly, I also felt that Mr. Divković's proposal, the parliamentary procedure and everything he said must be respected on the same level and that is why I believe there is a way out of this. It is up to the end to vote, to complete the procedure in relation to Mr Divković and Mr Tokić's proposal, I have talked about it two times over their proposal, and I insist that this matter be completed because there is no right for the College to usurp more rights than the MPs Tokić and Divković, I do not see it here and it destroys the integrity of each MP's work individually. I consider it mandatory to finish the job, Mr Banjac said that we can also break up the debate and plead, I don't mind if the SDP Club agrees, but it is inadmissible to say, if we finish this debate and push through this law, we forgot that proposal that was made by Mr Tokić and Divković, it is unnatural and since it is incorrect for the MP, because I also defend my proposals when I have them, I think we must protect the identity, and yours, as the Kolegijum, MPs Divković and Tokić. As for Mr. Deretić, who reacted angryly to the predecessor, without stating my name, I would quite precisely like to say. It is clear to me that this is about mandates, but I think it is clear that it is about shortened visions of the future of BiH that are not going anywhere and there is no way of forming inter-entity governments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5136	I've never mentioned it before, unlike anyone else. As far as entity equality is concerned, my amendment was in this context well-conceived, given the provisions of both Dejton and the Constitution, it is, on the one hand, and in this context, the length of the mandate of the BiH Council of Ministers' chairman, it is below one. As for the second finding that the whole world has praised democratic processes, when it comes to these last elections, it is likely that, when it comes to the Bosniak people, it may be normal to expect it, because it is not necessary to forget and interfere with the fact that the first one started with the national option, who first formed the party on a national basis. In that context, I think this is quite normal what happened and I absolutely welcome it. I welcome the democratic processes, and I am confident that these democratic processes will also quickly find footholds in other parts of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5137	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the presidency, I would like to say a few words about what is the agenda point, which is the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was given before us by the BiH Presidency. I do not want to talk at all about the details, which there are many, which is why the SDP MPs' club cannot support such a bill on the BiH Council of Ministers' Council, I also do not want to open any debate on the legal basis, for one or any other establishment of the Council of Ministers' Council of BiH, I will just say a few principles, as an explanation of the position that SDP MPs have in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and say a few words on the right basis which is why we do not accept such a proposed law on the BiH Council of Ministers. We also express our satisfaction that the BiH presidency has made an effort to come to this. We also express our satisfaction that the College has found, in various forms, that this has reached a proper compromise, which guarantees that we will get the Council of Ministers of BiH. We can also express our satisfaction, our satisfaction that even if the College is behind such a proposal, regardless of all the pains of individual positions for individual members of the Colleges on various members of this law. However, we are in the view that such a Council of Ministers of BiH is completely inappropriate in the situation in which the country is located. I also call for our last conclusion, from last session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, when we asked the BiH Presidency to offer us a debate on a whole set of issues that talk about relations with international financial institutions and the overall state in which we are located, and I call for Article 5. The constitution, point 3f), which I believe the BiH presidency should deliver to the members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly material that was held at the April 3rd session and a stenogram from that session of April 3rd. Because from this you can see very clearly that this Council of Ministers of BiH, which we are talking about now, absolutely cannot respond to what is our reality. Let me remind you, in last year, BiH had, according to the material the BiH Presidency was supposed to deliver earlier, 2.5 billion dollars of trade deficit, and the optimistic variant, according to this material, that this year's trade deficit will be around $2 billion, which is more, in these two years, incomparably more than the complete implementation of the donor money that is now being implemented. Simplifiedly speaking, the country is going into a total economic ambition. If someone thinks that such discussions, with such replicas, agreements, negotiations, calling, congratulating each other and so on, we can answer that, then, well done. I would also like to ask, Mr. Chairman, and to draw attention to one of the facts that is not detail, I draw attention to Article 5. The Constitution, 3.j) which, in practice, gives the BiH Presidency jurisdiction beyond what is specified in the Constitution, if they are given by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and by this Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, I draw attention to the fact that we have activated Article 5.3j) which, in practice, gives them the authority which is not within the Constitution. I'm drawing attention to knowing that with this, that's just one reason I can't say right now, which is why we're going to be against making a statement about this, no matter what you put this on. Also, Mr. Chairman, given that the BiH Presidency, through its authorised representatives, has practically referred criticism to the BiH Parliament in a certain way, through the speakers of the BiH Presidency, i.e. my elected advisers, senior officials, call it whatever you want, accused, in a certain way, that this situation is because of this kind of parliament, I want to show the SDP fence of such an accusation, because it is unknown that the BiH Presidency, which clearly has legality, but it is a big question whether it has legitimacy because of all this which has led us, can be referred to the Packs to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, for the simple reason that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has a whole majority and this parliamentary majority can do what it wants, if no one can form the parliamentary majority, it is known, then, how it is done. Also, I want to in principle to support only some of the discussions that were here, that is, to make it very clear that we do not accept in the main lines such a council of ministers, we believe that this position of the prime minister has been questioned, no longer from the point of view of the legal basis of the Dayton Agreement, this or that, but what is challenging to those council of ministers who are due to start working tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Council of Ministers of BiH, who, under this law, would be appointed in such an atmosphere, responsibly argue that it cannot respond to the tasks... the situation currently in the country ahead of it and I want it to be known in advance that we have identified it from this pay phone. Also, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed fellow MPs, it is unacceptable for us that the BiH Presidency, by law of this kind, practically, the Council of Ministers of BiH leads to some kind of working group, which, objectively, is neither a constitutional category unless this parliament knowingly decides on it. Also, I want to understand that the country is objectively in an emergency situation and I do not call for extraordinary measures, but I call at the same time on the regular measures that we can do and, in the end, the constitutional position that is here for the prime minister, practically, disputed, at the same time introduces a principle against which I wish to stress that we advocate that such a principle is not accepted. In fact, we believe that no council of ministers, or any members of the BiH Council of Ministers, can be given a bilateral mandate for some period that allows them to be certain that, when some time passes, they work or do not work, they will come to a position that is higher than the one they are currently in. In other words, I think that, in the extreme case, it is completely irrelevant whether the BiH Council of Ministers gentlemen will after eight months rotate the chairman, because certainly the whole Council of Ministers of BiH will not be this adopted, for one single reason why the nature of the electoral processes ahead of us, so that I do not want to further deepen it, that after eight months someone else will come, because after eight months none of them will be here unless the new parliament votes. Finally, I want to be very clear from this speaker about the stenograms, materials, records and everything I have mentioned, relevant papers of international institutions, there is no problem with them. I don't think we should vote on this right now, but I would ask the College to, in accordance with the constitutional basis that I said, with the Rules of Procedure, in the end, here I, from this speaker, invite the BiH presidency members to send these papers to the members of the BiH Parliament. That members of Parliament are familiar with the fact that this country is bankrupt. Don't say that we didn't know and that this way, this is how we conduct the debate, this country will only take beyond what any of us wants to the enemy, let alone themselves. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your patience for my turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5138	First of all, I'd like to ask you to make one correction in the second amendment, which I hope you all got, which I suggested behind this pay phone under 5. It stands, two ministries without portfolios, to stand two ministers without portfolios, instead of the ministry, the minister. I'd just like to say something about these powerful replicas, and at that moment I remembered a thought of dostojevski, along the fence in advance, please, that no one is identical to anyone in that thought. She says this: “If you go towards a specific goal and throw yourself at every dog that barks, you will never reach the goal.” I am really asking the question, what is our goal, whether we should respond to every word and ask for an explanation, until we discuss who first came here under Trebević several hundred or thousands of years ago. I mean, it really isn't necessary and let's also lead this discussion and all the discussions in future towards the goal. Here is our goal, I think, to get to the law on the BiH Council of Ministers. We have a proposal for that law. This isn't a draft. We're like this one, something a little different, let's call it, discuss the draft, and it was given by the BiH presidency. The college has already agreed to this proposal, amended and this is indeed a proposal, and let's not put the ball back without need. Questions were raised about how good the proposal was or is not good, how acceptable it is, but the SDP Club has a full right when it asked for a debate on one of their laws to be concluded. A failure was made immediately at the adoption of the agenda point which was not done and my colleague Banjac took away a few things I wanted to say, and I support it, no one contests that we do not vote immediately after the agreement, if the law already passed, no one contests the right to do so immediately. That is why my proposal is to complete the discussions under this law because we have already begun, to return after the discussions have been completed to finish the debate on the law, the declaration, the vote, that is, the law of Mr. Tokić and Divković and then to take a break of 15 or 20 minutes. If that law doesn't pass, if he passes, we're done. If that law fails, we give a 15-20 minute break, how long does it take for the Kolegijum to respond to the amendments and after we vote on this law today. In the meantime, if anyone has any other suggestions, have them deliver it to the College, but indeed, you've all had the opportunity, and, here, from the adoption of the agenda to make your amendments. The proposal is, once again, to complete the discussions, if there are any, if there are replicas, leave them, save the stones for a more useful situation, so, to end the discussion, to vote, to take a break, to make the Kolegijum known about the amendments and to put this one to the vote, so we'll see what we'll do next.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5139	From this debate on the Law on the Council of Ministers, which has been going on for several hours, I realized, if we forget or leave out all these necessary and unnecessary replicas, that the debate is actually moving between two approaches to this law. One thing is that the law, offered like this, is unconstitutional, because it guarantees national parity and consensus. The arguments that this should not be the case are an invitation to the Constitution which does not explicitly say anywhere that it must be, and then that there are good defence mechanisms, because all this is confirmed by the MPs, and then the question whether the BiH Presidency has the authority to do such a thing, these are the arguments of this one option, and the other option, that the law should provide, first of all, national parity and consensus, and the rest are, as I say, variations on the same subject. It is likely that in everything else, we will easily agree and reach a compromise. Those others who represent this other option are also calling for the Constitution, because it explicitly does not forbid it to be done, then, are calling for the protection of national interests in the BiH state, as it is. As Srbin from the RS pleaded on this issue, I would also like to make a statement to the Hrvat, whether this law requires national parity and consensus or not. And then already, given that three is an odd number, however, that would say something about what kind of solution should be made. The explanation that the BiH presidency does not have the authority to do this kind of thing sounds a little strange to me, not two months after the announcement of the Law on the Border Service, in which the same political options were held by the same MPs that the BiH presidency, the minority, could do anything in the world. I was wondering then if she could make a decision to kill me, because so some said that all living things could, simply, they're the Presidency and they explained that they could make the Border Police Act and there's no amendment to it, only we have to vote. At the time, some represented it, and now the opposite of not having the presidency. MPs representing this first option, if national parity and consensus were not needed, might have, that is my opinion, the right to expect such a law to be passed if trust among the peoples in BiH would be the way it should be. I now ask these MPs, only during today's meeting of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, we have heard twice that someone has falsely informed Europe about what happened here, and it has been said that Serbian MPs from the RS have obstructed the adoption of the Election Law, which is not true, we have all voted for three versions unanimously, all 11. Someone falsely reported it, where there was no one of us, to see it falsely reported. There was another such one here today, which suggests that whether we like it or not, there is now no trust and that, therefore, it remains only what is regulated by the laws, which is the national parity and consensus, and at the end of this, whenever there is a vote on this, now or in seven days, I ask that the statement be individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5140	Since it is a law that is a very important prerequisite for entering the Council of Europe, I am simply surprised that we do not have a tolerance or a sense of compromise. Here some who are constantly pushing for the Council of Europe and entering Europe have been obstructing all the laws that are really a ticket to the Council of Europe. The discussion has diverged to the extent that it is simply amazing, if we are really in favour of entering the Council of Europe, why don't we cut it short and come to a compromise and pass this law. My suggestion is not to divorce, not to owe, but to specifically determine ourselves according to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5141	Those who call on time, that we should cut this short, of course, I am, however, respected colleagues and colleagues, for me now, I must say, after all the discussions, this draft, or if you have already declared it the Proposed Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the continuation of the Dayton Agreement in the wrong direction. Please note that we must stick to the Constitution here. Constitutional solutions for the Council of Ministers of BiH, please note this, differ significantly from constitutional solutions for the BiH presidency and the PSBiH House of Peoples. It's important. So this is about reviewing. If we're talking about deals, that's another thing. However, there is one agreement, which is official, which is a Dayton deal. It clearly writes how the BiH Council of Ministers is being created. As for the parity and consensus, this was about it and it is about that the BiH Constitutional Court did not bring down consensus and parity, for the simple reason that the BiH Constitutional Court did not find it appropriate to discuss it. Why? So, when it comes to the BiH Council of Ministers, it does not talk about any consensus or parity. It is about this, when it comes to the BiH Presidency and the House of Peoples, and in part, the Central Bank of BiH in another way, and when it comes to the Council of Ministers, there is no mention of parity or anything else, because it is simply not, so to speak, good for one executive power. The mechanisms of defence of vital interests exist. If there's any other deal, and if we need to talk about parity agreements, I'm up for it, but then everywhere, gentlemen. Everywhere and on every level. I would ask that this be considered. As for the fact that we need this law, do we need the Council of Ministers of BiH, of course. If this is one of the preconditions for joining the Council of Europe, I ask you next. Whether the Council of Europe asks us to violate the principles and standards of the Council of Europe to enter the Council of Europe. Obviously, what is before us, I was just talking about discrimination, whether we are asked to violate the principles of the Council of Europe in order to enter the Council of Europe, which, as soon as it reads this text, will say this is not a European model and change that. The Council of Europe cannot ask us to do so. It asks us to do what we do here is clearly determined by the BiH Constitution. The BiH presidency appoints a prime minister. That's where the BiH presidency's role ended. Then enters into force the House of Representatives here. With these provisions and this draft law here, gentlemen, I must tell you, you've certainly noticed, parliament is placed in the position of observers, at best. The BiH Council of Ministers is the service of the BiH presidency, and parliament is an observer. Does this fit at this time in BiH, and does the Council of Europe ask us to just break the basic principles on which it rests? Don't ask. He asks us to work under the Constitution, and I will stand up for such solutions. Not for rotation, I will never vote for it, because it is an implicit irresponsibility in our situation, adding another, if I may, excuse the expression, ringished on the political stage of BiH, along with the presidency of BiH and the House of Peoples. We don't need that. We need an executive authority that needs to act daily and in line with the interests of this country, and it is extremely resourceful. I would recommend that we have a constitution in mind, when we talk about this?). What's clear in the Constitution. The Lords also spoke of not writing anything in the Constitution. The constitution cannot predict all latent possibilities, especially in these areas, such as, you know, unlimited, when it comes to our imagination and willingness to go to extremes. We had the Council of Ministers of BiH, the President and the Vice President, where I was, which changed every seven days. The BiH Constitutional Court has come to the conclusion that this is wrong. We've all come to the conclusion that it's wrong. Why would they go back to something that's unconstitutional today? We know that the BiH Constitutional Court will bring that down. There is no constitutional court's position on this matter except for private views. Private views say it's absolutely unconstitutional. The rotation is unconstitutional. Why are we getting into such a situation again? Why don't we work it out like Dejton said. As for the number of ministries, first of all, I welcome the idea, and, here, if you want to say, that was our proposal two years ago, the Ministry of Persecution and Displaced Persons or Refugees, as you will, and human rights. If we need one ministry at the state level with half the government out of our homes, then that's what we need.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5142	I am really sorry that Mr Silajdžić, as co-chair of the Council of Ministers of BiH, may not have had in mind the law he was working under. It is quite clear here that every minister and two deputies, it is a constitutional provision, cannot be from the order of the same constituent people, and it is known that the constituent nations, by the Constitution, are three peoples: Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak. Therefore, there is parity. So there's a constitutional parity, please know that, that's what it says. That's what Article 3 also says. The law, so far a valid law, that all decisions are made by consensus, here, and this is written in Article 19, that is, Article 1, the BiH Council of Ministers makes decisions by consensus of those members present. So, both parity and consensus, gentlemen, stands in the Constitution. It says here, sir. What do you think, you don't think this is true? You must have miscopyed the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5143	I answered the word after Mr Silajdžić's discussion. I am pleased to hear that he has determined to respect the Constitution, the Dayton Peace Agreement, because after years of performing, writing books on the revision of the Dayton Agreement, probably with this statement, which he made here today, something big happened to Mr Silajdžić and entering a certain new era of implementation of the Dayton Agreement. It would all be nice to hear it, and at the same time, under such a firm, under such a discussion, the fact that all that was given in this law is unconstitutional and that it is not the category that BiH needs. The constitution makes it clear, so they told me whether the Council of Ministers is an entity or BiH, but it clearly says, no more than two-thirds of all ministers can be appointed from the Federation of BiH territory, and, normally, one-third of RS territory. It also says under b) that the appointment of ministers and deputies will make sure that they cannot be from the same constituent people as their ministers, and that I do not list further and not list a number of these elements that are defined here. It's amazing how great we are to distort the facts and what's written and what, apparently, we can come to an agreement right now so that they can work out the joint bodies of BiH. Unfortunately, I can only conclude, after all of these and these discussions, we are not interested in certain structures, that is, not the interest of the joint bodies of BiH, but of being in one chaotic state, which is certainly the desire to extract something else and challenge something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5144	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I did not want to report on purpose today about the BiH Council of Ministers Act, for one reason only, because we need this law. I expected the promoters to make and explain the law on which the Constitutional Commission would give its opinion, that we would vote today. However, we have come into a position today to speak, interpret the Constitution, talk a lot about whether or not we need and who is challenging this law, and I would remind only that the three amendments we received from the RS, from representatives from the RS area, and everyone is saying as they will, and they are putting amendments to that same law. Therefore, I support those who have said that this should be a draft law, that the amendments be made by the Proposer and that then we have a proposal to vote on. But I didn't go out for it, just because I came out, I'm saying what I meant before. What I'm saying is that here we're talking about the wrong interpretation of the Constitution, we're talking about how parity was introduced in the BiH Council of Ministers, it's a completely incorrect allegation. Article 5 is an independent member of the Constitution, and it speaks, in its item 4, section a), the chairman and ministers form the BiH Council of Ministers and are in charge of implementing BiH's policies and decisions. Point b), up to two-thirds of ministers can be appointed from the Federation of BiH. It's not about the peoples, it's about the area. From the territory of the Federation of BiH two-thirds and from RS territory one-third. It's not about the parity of the people, it's about the division of mandates between the two entities. When it comes to parity. Parity was introduced only within the ministries. The chairman will also appoint deputy ministers, who are not of the same composition as their minister. That, in my interpretation, means that there can be more ministers from one nation, but that the deputy cannot be from that people. I will now use one of my parliamentary questions, right, since OHR is an interpreter of the BiH Constitution before joining the vote on this law, I ask the OHR to give us an interpretation of the parity within the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5145	I think this debate is going a little wrong right now. My proposal is to support Mr. Divković and Mr. Spahić, and I think it is, in that sense, to schedule the next session in seven days, i.e., to get a notice, with the agenda that you have suggested here. I think it's only rational, because we have another half hour, according to our usual and we're giving our opinion on the amendments, that would be my proposal. Ten minutes break. Here we have the quorum again. [[PAUZA]] Patience, obviously, we don't miss it. The College agreed to respect Mr Divković's remarks and put on the second round of voting the proposal Divković - Tokić, the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers. We're going back to the point where we left off on the 13th and we'd like to make a statement immediately on that proposal. The secretariat. Branka, will you please see how the draft agenda stands, whether it's a bill or a bill? It's still about the bill. I ask the Secretariat to establish the number of present. We have 33 present. We vote on entities. The first question is for all, who is for this proposal Tokić – Divković. Who's in? By entities, since this is about the second round of voting, we only vote who's against it. Who is from the Federation of BiH against the adoption of this law. Who's against it? From the RS, who is against this law? - 11. 33 MPs are present, 18 voted in favour, generally taken. By entities, the vote. From Federation of BiH 4 against, from RS 11 against. Therefore, I find that this law has not passed. We continue on the 13th item of the agenda, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the proposal of the BiH Presidency, i.e. the College. Suggestion. We have amendments here. We've circled the debate. So, please, don't ask for any further discussion and I'm asking now to make a statement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5146	Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the promoter, three MPs, I would like to inform you of our statement on the amendments. About the amendments to the MPs, Ms. Ana Havel has not been agreed, so opinions have been shared, and we suggest that she go to the vote if she has not given up. As for Mr Branko Dokić's amendment, it is contained in Mr Špirić's amendments, so if Branko agrees, we will give an explanation then. How about that, Branko? But it is identical with Mr Špirić's amendments, except for one ministry has been added, so we can plead this way. No consensus has been reached either, we suggest that it go to the vote if you haven't given up. As for the amendment of MP Miodrag Deretić, Amendment number one has been accepted. Amendment number 2 has already been partially incorporated into the Law, so we suggest that the MP accept what is in place and that he give up the part that is not incorporated, if he agrees, or that we vote on the whole of the amendment. As for Mr Špirić's amendment. Amendment number two is not accepted, because it is anti-constitutional. About Amendments 1, 3, and 4, no consent has been reached, and we suggest he goes to the vote, and you can ask. We couldn't agree on amendments 1, 3, and 4, so they're going to vote. Do you agree he's going to the vote? So much for the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5147	Thank you very much. Amendment number one. Nikola Špirić is going to the vote. Please read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5148	Amendment number 1 of MP Nikola Špirić reads: “The Council of Ministers consists of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, two ministers without portfolios, Foreign Minister, Minister for Civil Affairs and Communications and Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The term of office of the chairman of the Council of Ministers will be eight months later, after which the Bureau will appoint another chairman-in-Office Council of Ministers from another constitutive people in the order of ministers without portfolios. Ministers without portfolios do not have deputies and assistants".
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5149	Who's in favor of accepting this amendment? Who's against it? The amendment of a total of 33 attended, for 12, against 16, the amendment was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5150	Amendment number 2. Nikola, are you giving up? Amendment number 3. So they're tied up and there's no need to vote. Mr. Dokić's amendment reads, that's Amendment One, and it reads. You give up, it's the same amendment as in Špirić who's been rejected and there's no need for us to vote. Amendment 2, Article 38, reads: "The BiH ministries are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of European Integration and... two ministers without portfolios."
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5151	Who's for Mr. Dokić's amendment? Who's against it? Who's from the Federation of BiH for? From the 33, it voted 14 for, and 14 against. This amendment has not passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5152	Mr Miodrag Deretić's amendment becomes an integral part of the law because it is accepted. Amendment number 2, which reads: "Ministers and deputy ministers are named from the three constituent nations, with the function of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers of the Serb Peoples, the same acting half of the term of office, the second half of the other two constituent peoples in BiH."
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5153	Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 33 present – 8 was for, and 22 against. The amendment didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5154	Mrs Havel's amendment refers to Article 6. A bill of law. In Article 6, paragraph 5 is deleted and the words “in principle of parity” are added.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5155	Who's in favour of this amendment? Who's against it? Of the 33 MPs present, 11 were in favour and 14 against. This amendment didn't go through either. Thank you very much. We now need to vote on the integral text of this proposed law, noting that this amendment Deretić included in this integral text in the preamble. Are you looking for an individual statement here?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5156	Alagić Raifa - for Bičakčić Edhem - Branković Nedžad – for Čaršimamović Tarik – for Kulović Hamdija - Rakić Vito – against Genjac Halid – for Jahić Adman – for Rađević Rasim – against Desanka Branko – for Špirić Nikola – there is no Pamuk Mustafa – against Karić Munira – against Spahić Ibrahim – against Bogičević Bogić – there is no Deretić Zlatko – against MiodragMijačević Ivo – there is no Muminagić Suada – against Divković Ivo – against Đedović Ibrahim – against Havel Ana – for Zovko Ljubomir – there is no Pašalj-Pašalić-Hotak Ivica – for Malkić Balta – there is no Banjac Perkanović – against LožaniLozančić Ivo – against Beć Smail – against Zovko Ljubažana Zakljanić – Zakrjanić for Miržna Radrjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5157	Please state the results of the vote in writing. In all of the MPs present, 18 voted in favour – 13 voted against and 2 was abstentioned. From RS, 8 were for – 3 were against – 2 were abstentions. From the Federation of BiH, 10 were for – 10 were against. Thus, this law was given a passing grade, or it was adopted. I declare this law adopted. Any objections to the vote? Thank you very much. This law has been passed. Ad. 14. Answers to MPs' questions and questions Answers we've had in writing, you've got, and now you've got who's got. I note that you have received written form forms, so you do not need to repeat that. I think I've said everything by entities. It's all in the record. I've read it all on entities. 10 - 10. This is about the first round of voting, Mr. Zlatko.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5158	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question, if I may, not you, but the Foreign Ministry. The question is: “By whose orders do certain diplomatic representations across Europe organise the March 1st receptions, some holiday in BiH? Who made the decision that it was a holiday in BiH and whether diplomatic representations should organise receptions for the entity holidays or national holidays of BiH and whether diplomatic representations are entity or state of BiH?" The question is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I request an answer for the next session in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5159	While I give Mr Spahić my word, only by means of public communications, tomorrow at 4:00 is a session of the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5160	Given that it is under way, I would just like to draw attention to one fact, except what we heard today and last time about the economic situation in BiH. I'd like to ask a question. Since we received a guarantee from the Kolegijum that the document Mr Kurtović prepared on economic policy and social policy would be in the process, I am asking, as an MP, to put this paper in Parliament's procedure, because we cannot delay the debate on economic and social policy in BiH. Second, I'm asking a question. Is it possible that the ministry also told the BiH Parliament, what about the category that is completely failing, a common disease called poverty in BiH. I would ask the ministry to bring me to parliament at the next session and release into the parliamentary procedure a document prepared by Mr Kurtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-07-0.u5161	Any more questions? We'll probably see you in a week here next Wednesday, and you'll get a proposal on the agenda in time. Thank you very much. The seat's finished at 6:15.
