ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6900	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 26th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the meeting, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PHARE project, representatives of the Ombudsman for BiH. Representatives of public information funds were invited, of course. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work and for attending this session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, and I especially welcome Mr Franko Ortun, the Ombudsman for BiH. I would like to inform you that, according to the Secretariat's report, there are 27 MPs present at the meeting. Therefore, we have a quorum for work and a valid decision. The absence of the session was justified by MPs Ivo Mijačević, for health reasons, Ana Havel, Ibrahim Đedović and Edhem Bičakčić. Meanwhile, two other MPs have arrived, so we have 29 in total. Let me remind you straight away, and to warn you, you've got your ballot cards. Today we will use them when voting, as one option is provided for in the Permanent Rules of Procedure and please also leave the charts at the end of the session, to be saved for further use and for the next sessions. In the invitation to this session, you received a draft agenda. As is usually the case because of the circumstances that occurred in the meantime, we held a session of the House of Representatives at which something changed the agenda was agreed. We agreed to place the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers and members of the BiH Council of Ministers as the first item of the agenda, because of the emerging situation, the rotation in the BiH presidency and the need to comply with the provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, Article 6, paragraph 3. We also agreed to include, as the 8th point, giving consent to the Federation of BiH for the conclusion of an education loan agreement with the OPEC Fund. The College also raised the agreement to remove item 5 from the agenda. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, for technical reasons, because the tariff, which is an integral part of the Law, came a little later and did not fulfil the business procedure for the full text of the law to be found with MPs within sufficient time before the meeting and the beginning of the session. Therefore, the new draft agenda, agreed at today's session, is the following 1. Confirming the appointment of a) the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers b) members of the BiH Council of Ministers; 2. Proposal for amendments to the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2000; 4. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts; 5. Proposal for a law on freedom of access to information in BiH – MEPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Lozančić; 6. Draft of the basic law on the Ombudsman of BiH, Proposed by MP Edhem Bičakčić; 7. Proposal for a resolution, proposed by Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić 8. Giving consent to the Federation of BiH for the conclusion of the Agreement on the Rehabilitation of Education Loan with the OPEC Fund; 9. Answer MPs' questions and questions. Before opening a debate on the agenda, I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Permanent Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which states that the debate is limited to three minutes in the context of proposing the agenda. It is also in the situation of business interventions, correcting false allegations and objections to the minutes. Please bear this in mind and, when proposing a agenda item, supplementing the agenda or eventually removing optional points, make the proposal within the intended time limit, which is limited to the Rules of Procedure, and do not enter into the essence of the proposal and the agenda itself, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, in order not to enter into the essence of the proposal, but to explain the proposal for up to three minutes. As you know, the union has sent a request through the public to discuss the socio-economic situation in BiH at a meeting of the House of Representatives. Today, we have a motion for a resolution that deals with the issue of the social and economic situation in BiH, within that point, can be discussed on the issue of the socio-economic situation, with the obligation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as the College of both homes had previously concluded, to deliver the text as an introductory material on the 3 socio-economic policies of BiH's jurisdiction, to deliver, and to hold the debate at the House of Representatives. As I said, the proposal for a customs tariff law has been unanimously removed from the agenda for the reasons I have stated, and this is a proposal for a agenda agreed by the Kolegijum. I am now opening a debate on the agenda and once again I call on Members to comply with their business obligations, and I will warn on time in co-operation with the Secretariat and the Technical Service. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6901	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to intervene on the BiH Trade Union proposal, with one request that the BiH Council of Ministers put the material in the process at the Council of Ministers, be obliged to deliver to the Union and trade union organisations, borderline bodies that exist throughout BiH and deliver it to employers, employers' associations, which exist in BiH in both entities. The obstacle today is that we do not have the opportunity to say that we are giving this to the BiH Trade Union, which was established under the Law in BiH on NGOs and foundations and the obstacles is that we cannot tell employers, their BiH Association, where they are only established at entity levels because they do not have a legal foothold. So, on this occasion, I'm looking for two interventions on the agenda. The first relates to respecting the request, as Mr Genjac suggested, that part of the debate on Resolution and Economic and Social Policy be conducted and opened, in practice, a debate on these issues, and the second one to be ordered by the competent institutions to ensure that these documents reach those concerned. And the basis for this should be the work on drafting laws on NGOs and associations of citizens and foundations, which has also been insisted on by hundreds of NGOs in BiH that are completely blocked and operate beyond the BiH-level law. It makes it difficult for them to work on the internal plan and on the external plan. Therefore, it has been shown that, in terms of economic and social policy, two important associations at BiH level, do not have a legal foothold, because we do not have a law on NGOs and foundations. It's about the first intervention. The last is a requirement that, in addition to this law, which should be speeded up, because I know that there are already many proposals and plans, we need to put on the agenda a debate on the intervention that is necessary in order to make entry again in economic and social policy, not order, that is the law on the Court of Justice in BiH, because we have to have this law on the agenda, and even if this session is extended, so I propose the agenda of the BiH Court of Justice, because it is known that the Council of Ministers has passed its procedure and after the work group has completed its work and I don't see why this law isn't here today. It's two interventions to try...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6902	Thank you. Mr. Malkić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6903	Dear MPs, the Presidency, I would like to propose that the draft Law on Ombudsmans be proposed, we are discussing it today in the form of a proposal, i.e. to adopt it by an urgent procedure for the following reason. Since the Dayton Agreement has been appointed ombudsman for five years, and the period of functioning expires in December 15th, therefore, pursuant to Article 14. Anexa VI, it is necessary that the BiH government, or representative home, already has a draft law on the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6904	Thank you. Next came Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6905	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I suggest that the draft law on the holidays of BiH and the draft law on sports be included as point 9 and 10. These laws have been in parliamentary procedure for a long time, and the proposal for a law on holidays for BiH has been adopted in the form of a draft in this House of Representatives. In order not to explain the need to pass these laws, I think it is known to all those present, but I would point out that those laws are foreseen under the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives Programme, and I propose that at the end of the agenda of today's session, that possibly the people who need to be reminded of the text of this law, given that we have received in material significantly earlier, be informed and be timely on the proposal for these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6906	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6907	I answer my word for warning the chairman that we stick to the Rules of Procedure and that he will act strictly on the Rules of Procedure. If we were to follow the Rules of Procedure strictly, half of these points could not be entered into the agenda, because we have a procedure here to first declare the Constitutional Commission, then fifteen days of deadline, and then these commissions of working, authorized, should work, and then be given an amendment. I'm up for it. If we're going to tolerate this first, I agree with that, then we're going to tolerate the MPs so they can give the amendments in the course of the debate. Mrs. Muminagić is right, with only one correction. I highlighted the business regulation of proposing agendas and other points and asked that the restriction should be taken into account with regard to the proposal of the agenda. On the other parts of the Rules of Procedure, after this debate has been concluded, I will say a few introductory notes that we have agreed to say to the College, precisely in the direction of what Mrs Muminagić said. Is there anyone else registered for a discussion on the agenda? Thank you. As far as I can tell, there isn't. 5 Let’s make a series of suggestions. So I hereby declare that the debate on the agenda is closed and we move to a statement on individual proposals. Mr Spahić had two suggestions. One is to discuss the resolution and debate on the socio-economic situation. According to the Rules of Procedure, during the discussion of the Resolution, the prime minister has 20 minutes to speak, and the debates will be ten minutes each. Therefore, this is understood and all MPs have the opportunity, if they wish, to take advantage of this point and lead the debate. Therefore, I don't think this should be put to the vote, because it is understood. The second proposal is for the agenda of today's session to be complemented by the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. We will put these proposals on a number of additional points on the proposal, following a vote on the College proposal, as usual. The draft agenda agreed on by the College is you and I will put it up for adoption, and then the proposals of some MPs in order to supplement the agenda, which will be adopted, or not adopted by what has been proposed by the College. So, I call upon the MPs to declare by raising the green card, who is in favour of adopting it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6909	Why green?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6910	Because it's green for you. I accept your objection. I call on MPs to make clear by raising the chart, which says "for" who is in favour of adopting the proposal of the College, the draft agenda. Please, who's in? Who's against it, please? Thank you. Who's being held back? There are conditions to vote on entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Thank you. From the RS, who's in? Of the 30 MPs present, a total of 25 voted in favour. There was no one against the abstentions of four. The Federation of BiH voted 16 – from RS 9. Therefore, the College's proposal was adopted by a qualified and entity majority. In addition to stress that the issue of cardboard color has been regulated by the Rules of Procedure that we adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6911	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6912	I've observed the complaint. 6 The next proposal is for the agenda to be complemented, as Mr Spahić suggested, by the proposal of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH. Please, who's in? Business intervention, Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6913	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, according to my information, the College of the House of Representatives has received the Law on the Court, or the Proposal for a Law on the Court, done in the Office of the High Representative, and at the conclusion of this House of Representatives, after the motion of Dr. Haris Silajdžić gave up his proposal, and in favour of OHR proposing a law. I am in the last session, and I am also invited by the high representative to adopt the law in this House, and since we had no information about what stage the law is at, asked the College about what status the law is in today. I believe that, prior to the statement, the College should give information to the MPs so that we can make a quality statement, with the fact that I, of course, support Mr Spahić's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6914	From the point of view of the Rules of Procedure and the business procedure, this proposal has not met the conditions to be placed on the agenda. Mr Spahić suggested discussing the issue. Given that the law itself has not fulfilled the proposal issue, no procedure has yet been established by the competent commission, ustavnopravni Law, for 30 days, all this has not been fulfilled in order to put the bill on the agenda. These are technical circumstances. Please advise, given the circumstances, whether it remains on the proposal or amends the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6915	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have said that I will read the Rules of Procedure carefully, which I very much like, Part V - emergency procedure, Article 104. When I make a proposal for a law, therefore, in this case, the Proposer may request that the bill be considered by an urgent procedure. In that case, he is obliged to specifically explain the reasons for urgency, justification for emergency procedure, etc. Why did I open this debate on the agenda? If today we do not realise the urgency and importance of this law for BiH, not only about the economy, but about the whole structure of bh. society, we will be in a position to block, in fact, one piece of work, and this parliament in this meeting will not be able to declare itself on an important law that, as you said, has reached the Kolegijum, and I have very clear information that the Council of Ministers of BiH has completed its work of reconciliation and is now about a process that needs to be unblocked. My proposal is only inspired by one fact. If we put this on the agenda today, by emergency procedure, then we create the conditions to hold another session before the term of office expires and to consider and adopt this law, because it is the law of systemic character. That's the first thing. By reason of your intervention, Mr. Genjac, in relation to my statement, regarding the request of the union. I accept your argument, by stressing, I said, as you do, that the debate on the matter begins, by asking that the Council of Ministers of BiH give the document it did based on the interpretation and on the demands of both homes, and deliver it to the competent institutions, along with Bill 7 on NGOs and foundations. That's what I said about making a legitimate dialogue between unions, employers and governments. Just as an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6916	We don't have a request for an emergency procedure to be considered, please bear that in mind. Mr. Banjac reporting, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6917	Please, ladies and gentlemen, I don't see any reason why you really don't respect the Rules of Procedure and that it's already constantly becoming a practice to read, and that without any explanation of what's being read, it's trying to extort some kind of solution. This is where we talk about the promoter. Article 104 refers to the applicant. There's no realtor. The proposal cannot be anyone but the Council of Ministers of BiH, MPs or delegates in the House of Peoples. Please, the promoter is gone. The second thing, given that there are no promoters, we are at the Kolegijum, I do not know, Mr Genjac, you have probably forgotten to say that, by discussing at the College on the urgency of passing this law, we have learned that OHR will ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to be their proposings. Here, Mr. Raguž approves of what I said. I spoke to the OHR gentlemen this morning, no consent has been reached so far to do so and, therefore, it has not been done. Secondly, I ask you to read further article 104, which says, if you decide that urgency is necessary. Only deadlines are cut in half, nothing else, gentlemen dear, and why don't we respect the Rules of Procedure? It is not clear to me that the Rules of Procedure which we have brought and, please, when we call upon the Rules of Procedure to be correct, it is persistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6918	Thank you. Please, on this issue, you used your right to take business intervention. There is someone outside the competent ministry, and then Mr. Tokić, the business intervention, and this debate will be closed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6919	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, for reporting as an MP, not in front of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. You see, Mrs. Muminagić was right when she said that we are a representative council that does not respect its own Rules of Procedure. Applying one archaic, part of the points we adopted, and not applying another, is not good. 8 But what has offered me for discussion is that it is serious legal projects, so I note the serious ones, and if it is an emergency procedure, it implies that MPs are familiar with the legal projects and I think Mr Spahić was right when he discovered the intention. Let us impose 5-6 points of the agenda in order for this session to last right up to the elections, and by this we will be a single parliament in Europe and the world where we are seeking to sit down for a month immediately before the elections and turn into a event. My vote against putting on the agenda is because it is serious legal projects, because they are seeking serious debate and adoption in the interest of BiH citizens. You see, I don't think the translation's even dried yet. I would really like one of the MPs to be able to explain to me what the contexts of a legal project are required to go through an emergency procedure. It's not good for BiH. We are becoming ridiculous associates with both the OHR and the international community, be convinced of that, because people have convinced themselves that they have passiveized parliaments in BiH, in this way. There are legal projects that have passed here without debate and have been adopted. It shows in life that it's not good. So, I just want to cut it short and say, I didn't do it, I didn't pass the Council of Ministers of BiH, it's one thing, there's no proposing, it's another thing, and if we know who the proposing is and for many other legal projects, it's a technical thing, at least it's become a technical thing for this Parliament, and it's not good, and I'm not for our sessions to continue forever. It would be good if we had the strength for this session, if we had simply decided what was important to end today, but to really end today. These are all important legal projects that will come to the session agenda, whether in this session or in another session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6920	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament - MPs, my intervention refers to the logic of the use of these ballots. When accessing the vote, everyone raises that ballot as declared and that only has the purpose of using these ballots, and the services count the red, green and white charts and thus speed up the work of the session and so it is indicated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6921	Very briefly, keep in mind that business...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6922	Ladies and gentlemen, if during today's debate on the agenda we have found that there is no proposal, does it mean a statement, well now he is no longer a representative of the Council of Ministers. Can we get a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers' representative that they are taking responsibility, that they are the legislators of this law, we need to identify who the promoter is. Mr. Banjac said: “There are no conditions, because you do not know who the promoter is.” I say, this law is, publicly, I demand that, unless there is an identified proposing, that this be the point of the agenda, we make a statement. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6923	Mr. Banjac, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6924	Please, Mr. Chairman, respect the Rules of Procedure and do not let man speak twice on the same matter. There are no conditions for this point to be put to the vote. There are no conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6925	Thank you. There are really no conditions for this agenda item to be found today for business reasons and I cannot put such a proposal to the vote. The next proposal, Mr Malkić, for the draft of the Ombudsman law to be translated into the form of the Proposal for a Law on the Ombudsman. I suggest that Mr Malkić give up the proposal, because in the meantime, the competent commissions will be in session, which we will talk about later when we get to that point of the agenda, after the commission's work, we will determine whether there are any conditions for the draft to be crossed into the form of a proposal. Can the suggestion be respected, Mr. Malkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6926	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6927	Of course, we mean first and second reading, when we talk about the draft and the proposal, according to the Rules of Procedure, first and second reading. So, for reasons related to the work of the committees that have come into existence, I think it would be better if we came to the agenda on this proposal. I suggest he accept this and give it up. So, let's make a statement about the proposal when we get to the agenda point. Can Mr Malkić accept or insist on the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6928	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6929	Okay, thanks. Mr. Tokić had two suggestions. One is to be placed on the agenda, as point 8, the proposal for a holiday law. I must inform you that the Bill of Law adopted at the House of Representatives as the basis for making the proposal, the House of Peoples was not accepted, it was rejected. The home of the people did not inform us in writing about it, but according to the information we have, so was it and, therefore, this draft has no conditions for further procedure. The draft law on sport has been submitted to the competent, constitutional and competent commission, whose time-limit for consideration has already been set for the Rules of Procedure, and when those deadlines are met, there will be assumptions that this proposal is on the agenda as a mandatory proposal. That's the way things are, and I have to do it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 10 Mr. Kadić, I assume business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6930	Ladies and gentlemen, given this argument by Mr. Chairman, and given the fact that I am orderly, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, called the Constitutional Commission meeting today at 9 o'clock and that after an hour and a half, apart from Mr. Tokić, Bogičević and myself, no member of the Commission appeared, I ask the chairman to take a break so that she could hold a session of the Constitutional Commission, which will consider the proposals of the law, among other things, and the Sport Act, in order to obtain the conditions for voting on whether the House of Representatives accepts or does not accept that this law is to be included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6931	Please, given the circumstances relating to this session, the term of holding this session, for the work of the committees, which has been common so far, which must obviously undergo the changes, because of the requirements set out in the Rules of Procedure, in order to in some way ensure that today's session, to do the work that is envisaged despite the circumstances that have been created for the Commission's work, I will suggest that, after the adoption of the agenda, that the Commissions should take a break of at least an hour, in which they consider all the laws adopted as points of today's agenda. What was proposed at today's session by the Committee on the Agenda, these are the points that fulfilled the other assumptions, in terms of the time of delivery, in terms of the promoters, in terms of considering the previous by the promoter, in terms of first reading, in terms of second reading, and we were guided by the proposal which, as a proposal from the College, was set out today. However, the committees responsible did not consider, before holding the session, these laws, and MPs did not have the opportunity to submit amendments to the commissions, so as to consider the proposed amendments, to inform the MPs, and then to determine whether to stay with the amendments. In order to ensure this possibility for MPs, we will give this break to the commissions to do so, and in the meantime, I call on all MPs who have amendments to the laws that are on the agenda today, on the agenda, to deliver it to the committees responsible, and then, when we go to the agenda point, the competent commissions will inform, submit, of course, their report, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to submit the information that the amendments have submitted and MPs will have the opportunity to re-prove whether they remain in the amendments or not. In this way, we give MPs the opportunity to deliver amendments, they are not denied the possibility and the right to submit amendments to proposals. So that's the deal and it's a college arrangement to do so, because of the circumstances that I think you can respect. After the first act. Meanwhile, all MPs will submit amendments to the committees responsible, and I will read which commission is in charge of which agenda act. 11 We are left with this dilemma about the bill of sport. Mr. Tokić is answering again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6932	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I support the trend to take the session of this House seriously, but I ask you to be very consistent and not to fall into the trap of insistence on respecting the Rules of Procedure, and after insisting that we do not respect the Rules of Procedure, in this context I am talking about amendments. I think it's pretty late for the amendments now, in general. Don't be insecure now with the aspect of these laws proposed by the College, but I have reported primarily to express my position regarding your comment on the holiday law. We need to be clear, I first heard from you that this bill was not adopted by the House of Peoples. As an MP who has submitted to this House of Representatives a law that has been adopted, I will give up my insistence on today being a part of the agenda, with the conclusion that the College has provided a position relating to this law, from the aspect of the House of Peoples, and will allow me, as an MP, without a problem, given that I have changed that legislative project, that in the form of a proposal, I submit this law as a new legislative project at the next session of the House of Representatives. I think that this is the conclusion you provide for the dignity of the MPs, because this is how we enter into a very unserious work, and you say: “I have heard that this was not adopted in the House of Peoples and that we cannot discuss it at this point. ” With this conclusion alone, I am prepared to withdraw my proposal, not to be declared. As far as the Sports Act is concerned, he's been in the process for a very long time. I'm not sure if he was on the Constitutional Commission, I think even on the Constitutional Commission, that the Constitutional Commission, although in the old Rules of Procedure, but we are now entering into something that, if we went into discussion about it, would be difficult to come out and I believe that in the form of the draft, it could be included as a item of the agenda, especially at the end of the agenda and what would open the process of debate on this important segment and which is as a point of the Labour Programme of the House included and adopted by this high home, which in a certain way is the position of the House that the House should be dealt with by this law on sport.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6933	Thank you. The College must take the obligation to provide the MP with the conclusion of the House of Peoples on the fate of the law which the MP has passed and there is no dispute and we take the obligation, with the obligation to determine why the House of Nations has not delivered that conclusion to this day, because the College cannot take responsibility for what it is and what it is for and for what it is not. So, to determine why, to this day, the House of Nations has not delivered a conclusion on the fate of this law, because I am familiar with the means of information about this law, what fate it was in the House of Nations. Mr. Deretić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6934	Dear fellow Members of the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, I would once again be apostrophe here, for the truly expeditionive conduct of this session, that we really stick to the agenda. I don't know what time we agreed to respect the agenda and materials we get for scheduled agenda sessions. Unfortunately, we come to 12 positions that when we come to the session, we are really bombarded with proposals that have no footholds in the regulation, or Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative Council, on the other hand, we get mountains of ex post materials to plead at the session itself. I mean, in any case, that kind of preparation of the session puts us in a position that those X-rays are non-productive, very long, etc. As far as the proposal, i.e. the draft law on sport, is insane, it may not be this term too harsh, but it is absurd for us to discuss a legislation that is still, it is true, very long in the procedure, but the Constitutional Commission has not yet declared it, on the one hand. So, there's no way in which he can find himself here today on the agenda. So, please, I urge you here first and foremost to take care of it and to strictly comply with the regulations, that every unfounded proposal at the beginning, please, you cut off.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6935	Thank you. Just a minute. At one of the last meetings of the Colleges, we have directed everything that has contributed to the procedure at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, according to the provisions of the Permanent Rules of Procedure, to the competent commissions and to the Constitutional Commission. Thus, no proposal, no project submitted by the MP, will be put in a position not to come to the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as after the deadline prescribed for the commission phase, according to the Rules of Procedure, it becomes mandatory points of the House of Representatives' agenda. We are inevitably in this period between the application of one Interim Rules of Procedure and one Rules of Procedure called Permanently, the projects submitted at the time of the Interim Rules of Procedure end at the time of the Permanent Rules of Procedure and however we wish, we must take this transitional period into shape that all the rights of the Members are met and, however, respect the form. Sometimes it's very difficult. Sometimes it's almost impossible. Sometimes it is subject to criticism by MPs who demand respect for one or the other, ours, or at least my intention, is to respect the right of each Rules of Procedure and to respect as much as possible the Permanent Rules of Procedure. So these are our criteria. And please keep that in mind. We will treat each proposal equally, in any case, differently and cannot. Mr. Tokić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6936	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I would indeed ask that harsh words are not used for one legislative project that has been in the parliamentary procedure for months, so much earlier than the legislator who calls for the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and has not come to the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, this morning at 9:00, which automatically opens the space for conscious prevention, the obstruction of a law passing a normal procedure, no matter what the final statement of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of BiH will be about the law. Therefore, after this discussion, and fearing that the obstruction of work in committees will continue, and calling for the right of MPs, a group of MPs who proposed this law, I remind you, the law is proposed by a group of MPs from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the House of Representatives, from parties from both Bosnian Herzegovic entities, with 13 seats in both Bosnianhergic entities and represents a strong interest of citizens, people, especially people organised in sports associations, to make a statement on Mr Kadić's proposal, to take a break and to remove legal-formal procedure concerning the establishment of the sport law in this House. Otherwise, I fear that even the next time Kadić calls on the commission, the Constitutional Commission, there will be no quorum and that this trend will be characterized by conscious prevention and disabling that certain proposals of the laws of the MPs, a group of MPs, come to their final statement. I ask that the statement on Mr Kadić's proposal be made, given that this morning's statement on this law has been disabled, and I call on all those present again to bear in mind that this law is indeed more than seven months in the parliamentary procedure and that you, as a College, place yourself in a position not to provide a group of MPs from both homes to be treated equally in the process of adopting a law, or proposing a draft, and then a proposal from this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6937	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6938	I, of course, have nothing against the proposal, anyone, and I don't look back, therefore, on the proposal. I say again that we are in a specific situation, which is when conditions are not respected, a procedure that is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, and we need to agree on how we will deal with a number of legal projects that are really waiting, that is a fact. You know the way. The way is for the law to be delivered to the chairman and that is for this law to be fulfilled. We can accept that it's done, but there's a commitment, and it's already been done by the College. Mr. Genjac said that we have all the laws that have come to the competent commission and constitutional law so far, because they are all delivered to the Constitutional Law, but in this law, it seems to me, if I am not mistaken, that we have put jurisdiction on the Constitutional Commission. So it's not enough for the Constitutional Commission to just make a statement at this point. The same commission should be delivered and amended to that law, to make that same commission known again, business is the case. Please read it. To make a statement about the amendments and return the opinion of the MP on the amendments and where the failure was made. You should've told the MPs, I beg you, if you'd listen to where the breach was made. It was to be directed, Mr Halid, that's what we and our service failed to do, and all MPs needed a letter to know which laws were addressed to the commission stage and which committee is responsible for the MPs to make amendments to that commission. You know that 48 hours is the minimum period when the committee, before the meeting, is to inform the MP whether amendments have been accepted or not. I'm not here to get smart, I'm here to say how to bridge this period and it's not one law. It's still, I mean, about 20 laws, in the same fate. We need to agree on how to bridge this period. That's why I think it would be good, well, my people, don't we have some very important laws on the agenda today, where we agreed to do this? Let's also agree on this how and for the next session, we'll see what we can do. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6939	Thank you. Before Mr. Tokić, as a promoter, gets his word, I suggest one possible solution. Since the law is in the process of seven months, since it is in the form of a draft, since it has been delivered to the Constitutional Commission, since we will have this break for commissions and since, if adopted in the agenda, MPs will have the opportunity to submit amendments to the Commission, if adopted on the agenda, it would be possible to put a proposal on adopting this point. Of course, if the act is adopted on the agenda, we will also have the opportunity to meet the commission stage and ensure that MPs are able to submit amendments. In other words, if the proposal were to be accepted and this point would be included on the agenda, the Commission would, in addition to these laws that we have already passed, consider this law that is in the proposal, if it were included in the agenda, and please let us accept this and finally resolve the issue. I'm asking the members of the College if we can do this. Mr. Tokić. Will you wait for Tokić or will you wait right now? Mr. Deretić answered the line before, and after that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6940	Since my absence was interpreted this morning by a gentleman, who, by the way, gives himself the right to interpret someone's failure as obstruction, which is absolutely not true. I came to Sarajevo on time this morning, I had an intention, because I was invited to attend a session of the Constitutional Commission. Unfortunately, something unplanned happened to me, which was related to the Konzulat at the Dutch Embassy, where I had to arrive inexplicably at 9:00, and I'm going to take my first break right away, because I haven't even been able to inform the President of the Constitutional Commission. So, my arrival, not coming to the session, is not an expression of obstruction, as Mr Tokić states, but an objective reason, and I am certainly one of the MPs who, and the Constitutional Commission can work without me, because there are nine of us in the Constitutional Commission, and to make a valid decision, it takes five present. So, Deretić is not the one who obstructs the work of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and for objective reasons, I was not present this morning, which I will inform the president of the Constitutional Commission at the first session, and the reason why I was left behind.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6941	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6942	I was talking about possible obstruction, and I wasn't just talking about that MP, I was talking about a group of MPs who made it impossible for us to have a quorum, but I just want to ask this college one more time. Your basic function is to ensure equality, equality of the rights of all MPs. You're now coming to a kind of paradox. This morning, on the Constitutional Legal Commission, which was not held, was the draft basic law on the Ombudsman of BiH, Mr Banjac. It was not declared by the Constitutional Commission. And you've already accepted it to be a part of the agenda. There was also a proposal for a law on the conclusion procedure, the enforcement of international contracts, and that was 15. The Constitutional Commission has not declared itself, and you have already accepted that it should be a part of the agenda. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Law on the Implementation of Budget Institutions and not to list everything. I ask you to have equal access to all legal projects, and you identify which approach you choose, but you cannot consider the same question, in the same session, with double criteria to consider a specific legal project.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6943	Thank you. Given the fact that, I don't think we have any other way out, equal treatment, the circumstances that exist, keep everyone in mind. I'll put the motion to the plea. If the proposal is accepted, we have the opportunity for MPs and commissions to do their jobs, if not accepted, the draft will go according to the procedure that has been done, as the College has assigned to the competent commissions and there is no problem. Please, whoever's up for it, we're pleading with a simultaneous lift, a statement of all the options, for, against, abstentions. I ask you to make a statement on the proposal to include a point in today's session...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6944	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm sorry, business intervention. It can't be said that way, please. It must be declared against, abstention. Don't pick up the charts and make a mess of it. It says there.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6945	Thank you. Indeed, I have understood in my Rules of Procedure that it is declared by lifting one option at a time. That's how I understood. Mr. Tokić suggested that time be rationalised at the same time. Since Mr. Banjac intervened in business, we approach the vote, one option at a time. So, first of all, we declare ourselves and I urge the MPs to count who is to put the draft law on sports in today's session? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? We're going after the entities. Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Thank you. Of those 30 – 16 votes against 12, abstentions 2. From Federation of BiH 13 – RS 3. Therefore, the proposal was not accepted because it did not receive the required number of votes from one of the entities. I agree that we adopted the agenda as proposed by the College, with 9 points in total and we approach the work on the agenda. At this point, I repeat the announcement, for understandable reasons, that after the first point is completed, we will give a break of an hour, at which the Commission, responsible for certain legal projects, will consider proposals, or drafts, that also means that MPs can submit their amendments to the committees responsible, and the committees responsible, however, are, for the budget of the institutions and the Budget Implementation Act, the Finance Commission. 16 Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, the Foreign Affairs Commission. The law on freedom of access to information in BiH, the Constitutional Commission, the draft basic law on the Ombudsman, the Human Rights Commission. This also means that these commissions will have their meetings in this time-out that will follow. The MPs should prepare their amendments, if they have them, and be able to deliver them in good time to the commissions so that they can be considered. Business intervention, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6946	I would like to say that what Mr. Banjac said about raising ballots, or voting cards, is not true, and that the Rules of Procedure, Members 66, 67, 68 and 69 have defined the vote, among other things, and in the way that I have cited it, and that we would not be having a debate about it, because I do not consider it important, I suggest that the College also interprets this member adequately so that we do not, otherwise, have a frequent interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, by some members of the College, agree to do so. I suggest that, in the college break, he and his professional service make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6947	Thank you, please, when quoting the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, let us only limit ourselves to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, without additional unnecessary qualifications affecting the efficiency of Parliament's work. The call for a Rules of Procedure is exclusively aimed at increasing the efficiency of work. If the invitation carries with it qualifications that make it difficult to work, it will not contribute to the work of this House of Representatives. So, we can appeal to business provisions, without unnecessary qualifications, I will have to intervene, since I chair in that sense, and warn. We approach the work according to the established agenda. Ad. 1. Confirming the appointment of a) the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, we received a letter from the BiH Presidency that you all received, I will read it, which states that on Saturday 14 October this year, as you know, a regular shift of the BiH presidency has been carried out. Since the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and on the BiH ministries is prescribed that the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers cannot be from the same constituent people, according to Article 6, item 3. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which we adopted, please include in the agenda of the first next session of this high house the granting of approval for the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. 17 We present to you the Decision, adopted at the 83rd session of the BiH Presidency, held on 29 September this year on the appointment of Mr Martin Raguž, Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. This decision of appointing you have been given earlier and, given the new situation, the need for the state of the BiH Council of Ministers to be in line with the provisions of the applicable law and of Article 6, paragraph 3. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers. You, as I said, have received a solid proposal from the BiH Presidency for Mr Raguž, you have also received Mr Raguž and I think at this point we can give Mr Raguž a word to address the House of Representatives and present his shorter exposés. Mr. Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6948	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored presidency, honored guests, representatives of information funds. I have prepared a shorter programme framework that I can deliver to you right now in writing, if you like, and I would briefly interpret, in some appropriate time, my view of the Council's work so far and the future, in a way that can contribute to the stabilisation of joint institutions, to strengthening the trust of all peoples and peoples in BiH. Therefore, on the basis of Article 6. The Council Act, the BiH Presidency confirmed my candidacy, and today it is up to you to confirm it, either accept it or not to accept it, with that, in accordance with Article 6. The Council Act and in accordance with Article 5(4). The Constitution, I should suggest to you on approval, too, and composition of the Council, which I think everything I do within this item of the agenda. Let me just point out how I see priorities in the work of the Council, along with all colleagues, members of the Council, in the coming period. The period will, of course, also be determined by election mathematics, election results and positive legal regulations in this regard. The first priority will be strengthening the institutional framework, i.e. strengthening joint institutions, as a fundamental precondition for achieving stable and self-sustainable peace in BiH. In this respect, I will advocate daily communication and openness between the joint institutions, their passivity and efficiency, on the basis of the Constitution and the obligations that BiH has made in this regard. I will seek to improve communication between the Council of Ministers of BiH, this higher house, as well as between the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency, but also functional integration and communication between all joint institutions. In particular, the issue of coordination with entity governments will be focused, as one of the preconditions for harmonisation and harmonisation of initiatives, reforms, projects and relations, as it is only possible to realise large demands and manage processes of interest for all people in BiH. 18 What I would especially like to stress in front of you is the principle... that is to assume responsibility by the competent institutions and representatives of all levels of government in BiH. I will especially insist on this, and I hope this will show the Council of Ministers that this challenge can be answered. I mean, as we find ourselves at the turning point after which we, or show that we can responsibly and competently implement our obligations and take responsibility, and thus become a decent and equal part of the international community, or it will become increasingly stronger and more and more responsible, so-called. an alibi of a policy in which responsibility will be transferred between representatives of the international community and domestic representatives of the authorities. In such a context, we will lose credibility and the responsibility of legitimately elected carriers, and most importantly, our ability to play an active role on both domestic and international terms will be increasingly questionable. Program priorities. First, it will certainly be an acceleration and completion of strategic, economic and social reforms, without which BiH can objectively not complete the transition and become a state open to strategic investment and investment. Simply put, without these reforms, there is no new development cycle, no opening perspective, and without it it will simply be difficult to retain young, educated and capable people, whom BiH has enough. The adoption of a full economic development strategy, with the BiH Council of Ministers, on which there are already initiatives within this high house, will be one of the priorities and will be co-ordinated with entity governments and top experts in these areas. This strategy should define the real future of the country, i.e. ultimately its self-sustainability. In economic terms, it will be necessary to upgrade certain existing legal acts, as well as to adopt new ones, in a way that will monitor European standards in a functional and practical way, in a way that activates the resources that BiH has, in those segments where its potentials are unquestionable, such as agriculture, energy and the like. It is clear that the realisation of these priorities must be coordinated with key international institutions. As a result, special attention will be paid to achieving new, more favourable arrangements with the World Bank, the IMF and other international financial institutions that can help improve economic recovery and create conditions for its self-sustainability. It is high time that, after the standby arrangement expires, which is the fifth month of next year, a new more favourable arrangement with the IMF for a period of at least three years. The initial readiness by the IMF exists, and the working framework for the agreement will continue to develop and activate all BiH's potential and reduce its poverty. When it comes to the Council's relationship with the rule of law, the Council will take the initiative in this very important segment in a way that through its own work and legal solutions and decisions, it shows that the development of democracy and the construction of a democratic society is not only a mere declaration, but a high goal and a real possibility. 19 In this sense, respect for freedom and human rights, and the full equality of constitutional peoples, should be fundamental principles in the work of all institutions. The way to promote this is to harmonize and coordinate interests, tolerance, dialogue, arguments and the public. Full respect for freedom of religion, in accordance with international standards, as well as the principles of equality between religious communities before the law, separation from the state, are the principles on which this platform will be set. The protection of human rights, in accordance with international conventions, as a matter of sustainable return of refugees and displaced, will be strongly focused by the Council in a way that harmonises regulations in both entities, enhances the efficiency of competent institutions and implements decisions taken by the competent authorities. A sustainable return, not just a naked reconstruction, is the principle on which this will be realized. According to the talks I have had so far, it is realistic to expect that, as of next year, the competent ministry, together with the Office of the High Representative, is chaired by a key body co-ordinating all international and domestic efforts on these issues. The issue of freedom of the media, their high-quality and independent positions in the preparation of necessary acts, will be the subject of this council's work. Allow me to look at foreign policy priorities for a short time, without which neither BiH nor its institutions objectively, if they carry them out in quality, I cannot expect them to soon become part of the international environment. They are summed up to the ultimate goal, which is to strengthen and expand quality relations with the international community as a whole. In this regard, of course, relations with neighbouring countries, as well as joining the European Union, have a special place. As a result, activities on the bilateral and multilateral agenda will be intensified, and potentials will focus on realising the essential objectives and this: 1. BiH's accession to the WE and the World Trade Organisation, as well as the opening of a process for joining the European Union, i.e. Creating a study,... studies; 2. Harmonising efforts to implement the Peace Agreement, as well as an active relationship within the BiH Stability and affirmation Pact within the UN and strengthening the partnership relationship within the OSCE. Finally, the most significant strategic objective on the external-political plan is to establish contractual relations with the EU in a hasty manner, first through the Stabilisation Agreement. In this respect, political and professional communication will be intensified at all levels, but will work significantly better to meet the conditions and criteria in the economic, democratic and legal framework, the construction of society, as well as regional stability and co-operation. BiH's active relationship in the joint advisory group will be intensified, and in this sense, the training of all state ministries for the accession and adaptation process will be ensured. Within the Pact, it is certain that there is a space for a more active and creative role of BiH, within all three working tables, especially in terms of running for projects that are of strategic interest to BiH and the entire Southeast Europe. 20 In a functional sense, the Council will strengthen its co-ordinating role in relation to competent state institutions, directorates, agencies and entity governments, and the preparation of laws in BiH's jurisdiction, and their compliance with the international standards achieved, will, in practical terms, be our daily tasks, and in that sense, the Council will assume responsibility for respecting the deadlines set by this House. I want to repeat my willingness to communicate quality and cooperation and the Council's openness towards this home, according to the BiH Presidency, according to all the relevant institutions. I would like to say, when it comes to the personal composition of the Council, with one more quality coordination, it can ensure the realization of this programming framework. I would like to thank Mr. Tuševljak for his role in this period which was neither long enough nor optimal to realize until the end of a certain programme sign he made, but I want to thank him for his energy, effort and the way he communicated with us. It may have once been unconventional, but, let me, each of us has its own individuality and style and I think that its engagement meant one contribution to the activation of the Council, after half a year of dry work and vacuum, and I hope that if I get your trust, this council can show that the way we work can withstand the criteria that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina requires, and the international community, and this high home. In that sense, I think that, by respecting a civilization framework in which the rotations in both the BiH presidency and both homes, both the House of People and the House of Representatives have been carried out these days, we can also do this rotation, in a way that we do not waste time in these few months and that we meet our obligations and that time is very short and demanding. In that sense, I am free to show you that the Council will continue to work in the existing meeting, because, in consultation with all relevant entities, in this respect, it is ensured, except at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, where, instead of Mr Velimir Lovrić, the former Deputy Minister, who, otherwise, is the President of the Management Board of the Agency for Privatisation in the Federation of BiH, according to the interpretation of the OSCE, the position of incompatible in the Council, would have been proposed by the new candidate, Mr Slavko Ištavanić, who, otherwise, is the director of elektrobosan in Javac and the persons competent and responsible and behind which I stand in this regard. I thank you for your attention and expect your confirmation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6949	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. I'm opening the debate after this presentation of Mr. Raguž and, please, who's answering for your word? Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6950	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Prime Minister is in his opening statement, in addition to the basics of the programme he has presented and has practically confirmed that he is running for the current personal composition of the Council of Ministers and for the future Council of Ministers, because of what we can say, within this point, I would say my position, my opinion on this first item of the agenda under a) and under b) so it seems to me, somehow, that it has been defined. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6951	I would pray, therefore, under a) is the appointment, confirmation of the appointment of the chairman. B) is the appointment of ministers, so we will also separate the debate, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6952	Okay, Mr. Chairman, what's the letter for the work programme that's been presented?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6953	Expose. It's under a).
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6954	Under a), thank you very much. I'll state the SDP's position, related to the exposés. I call it the basics of the work programme, it may be an exposé, it does not matter, which has been presented by the candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, and to say that for us from the SDP, it is, I would say, already seen. Something we've already heard, about, I'd say, from the previous prime minister, Mr. Tuševljak. According to us, this programme is a general story that is about to be conceived as if the mandate of this BiH Council of Ministers would take four years. We expected, I can also confirm here some principled views, BiH's entry into the WE, etc., and we all know that BiH's admission to the WE has nothing this year and that we are likely to discuss this story, the discussion of meeting the conditions, etc. work in the next period. We expected this programme to be a very concise, operational plan of the BiH Council of Ministers' work in the next two months, approximately, means a period expected to pass the elections and a new parliament is being established and probably a new council of ministers. That's why we can't accept this program. I will remind you, too, that, when there was a appointment, I would say, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the mandate of Mr Tuševljak, that we did not then support a programme that was also, according to us in general, neither the mandater nor the personal composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH, for the simple reason that even then we claimed that there would be no significant, positive shifts in the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH. We remain in that position now, but we stress that it would be necessary for the Council of Ministers to submit its report on its work in the previous period, during the term of office of Mr Tuševljak as chairman. We would also like to remind that the BiH presidency has come out in public with information that it has proposed the replacement of Mr Tuševljak from the presidency of the BiH Council of Ministers. That information was present. She's gone somewhere. The BiH presidency must have withdrawn that decision, so we haven't discussed it in this House either. 22 Given that under the Constitution, Article 5(4), the chairman of the Council of Ministers is also a mandater and should be here, means that we, by voting for the new Council of Ministers, before that, have, in a certain way, a report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, to accept or not accept it, and only then do we opt for ourselves in a personal sense, and only then do we opt for ourselves in a personal sense, possibly for ministers who were in a previous meeting. Thank you very much, I conclude, with the SDP unable to, unfortunately, support neither this programme nor this personal composition of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6955	Thank you. Mr. Čaršimamović, after that, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6956	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I must show my satisfaction that I see the Council of Ministers of BiH almost fully composed here today and I hope that it will be after the elections and after this or another council. We had the same situation in the Council of Ministers' election, and then it was more and more rare, which is why I will partly agree with Mr Divković's discussion, that I too expected Mr Tuševljak, in his capacity as current chairman, to present the results achieved by the Council of Ministers of BiH during this period so that we could assess the work of the Council of Ministers, etc., not to repeat. When it comes to proposing the Council of Ministers' composition, I will propose, i.e., to ask the motionor, or nominated chairman, to withdraw part of his proposal for the Council of Ministers' composition until the elections, because we have not yet confirmed his choice and I do not think it is right to propose a composition. It may suggest the same composition after that, but I think it should be separated as you said, at two points. Finally, I would like to say that what Mr. Raguž said in the exposé, within the policy that should be represented in BiH, however, it is doubtful how long the Council of Ministers will be, and then it is questionable whether all this will be able to be realised and it would be very good to have another timetable. However, the overall acceptable policy that has entered is. However, I would ask him to come out after me and withdraw part of his proposal when it comes to composition, and to do so if Parliament confirms his appointment and, normally, if Mr. Tuševljak finds it appropriate to inform us of what he was doing for this time as chairman and how many legislative proposals we had at this time, how often they met, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6957	Thank you. Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Spahić, then Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6958	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Divković is absolutely right, but I would ask you to be pragmatic and see if anything can change at all in this short time. Not going into how it's defined by 23 laws, although I have to admit that it's no argument for me, but, really, or rather, I don't know exactly how it's defined by law, but, indeed, I never did, and when I voted for the law, I didn't think that every eight months we would change the composition of the Council of Ministers and I would beg, in that sense, to find a solution in the future, because it would really be absurd then. I thought that we had chosen the Council of Ministers whose mandate will be by the end of this term of office of this assembly and this change in the chairmanship of the law, that it should be one of the compositions, and that the composition of the Council of Ministers will not be discussed now or that it should be in shape, the satisfaction of the form, so it is imagined. Everything else would be a kind of absurd. Indeed, this should be understood as one of the procedures for replacing the chairman and it would be quite logical that the current chairman has outlined in several lines what the main results of this short-term work and what the main problems are and should be based on this programme or exposé by the end of the term of office. So for the next maximum of two months, not four years, because from that point of view, nobody could really accept this as some kind of work programme, because they're going to hit them over the head, they're not able to realize it. I think it's too ambitious. But basically, we can't change now, and I would suggest to the MPs that, with Mr. Tuševljak's possible address, Mr. Raguž has come down to some extent to his exposé. At the very least, this program of his should come out of that program that the Council of Ministers defined at the very beginning. That's the composition, yeah, that's right. It is my suggestion, given the circumstances, with respect to all the remarks previously made, that we make one form, to carry out the chairman's shift and ask Mr. Tuševljak to inform us about the good things, even if they have done the good things they have done for this short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6959	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that at this point it is quite clear to me that BiH should give up such a bill and legislation as was voted here on the Council of Ministers, because it is shown that in fact that this process of producing the mandate and opening up problems with the composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH is obviously directly in confrontation with the interests of a government and the normal functioning of a state, and in this context, it is quite clear that we cannot do much today, except to respect the law. I'm surprised at that. Dokić says the law is not enough to make an argument. I have heard that he always referred to the law, the law that speaks of the procedure, the relations that exist in BiH should be carried out the way they were adopted. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers was adopted here. It seems to me that Mr. Dokić was the loudest, among the loudest for his adoption and astonishing that today, 2-3 months later, for Mr. Dokić, our colleague, is not a legal argument and it surprised me. First because I believed it was a great law fighter and law enforcement. Secondly, as regards the exposure that we received today and directly followed Mr. Martin Raguž's presentation, it is obvious that it is a single rotation cover, which is legitimately legitimate in the continuity of the BiH Council of Ministers' policy, because from the proposal under point (b) nothing is changed in the Council of Ministers of BiH, other than a person who cannot normally do those two jobs, cannot be a member of the Council of Ministers of BiH or a minister or deputy and be a member – the chairman of the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund. It is as clear as the day that this is a very precise law-abiding technique adopted by this parliament and replaced by the chairman. 24 Now to say something that seems important to me as a request that I heard today from Mr Tarik Čaršimamović. It is true that the constitution says that the chairman, after confirming his mandate, will come out with a proposal for the BiH Council of Ministers' composition. It's changed exactly in the law and it's nothing illogical. Because the law respected that part of the Constitution, however, there is one kind of mandate or chairman who has an autonomous right to say with this team I can work, radio one day or radio four years or I can't work. So for me it's the first constitutional category, secondly, legitimate for the chairman. It would be unusual for him, for example, not to repeat all the names from the beginning and not to remind ourselves of who is within the Council of Ministers, not to be understood, because, in fact, according to the Constitution and by law, at the time we confirm it today, he has an obligation to come out with a complete composition, not to talk about a technical amendment, which is conditioned again by the Law on Incompatibility of Two Types of Functions. So in that sense, I agree that first we, by respecting the law, verify the change, but what I want to ask now. I thought, too, that it was necessary to present information by Mr. Tuševljak when leaving this post and staying at the post of Minister of the Treasury. What has been done for this three or four months as long as he has been the chairman, Mr. Tuševljak. Why does it matter? It's important from political culture, that a man who rotates or goes from one place to another or stays in one place, informs that home, who gave him confidence, no matter how long it took, that moment and that time, to say, well gentlemen, of that program that I had, in these four months I could do it and I couldn't do it for that and for that, and I left it unofficially and that. In that sense, Mr. Divković, Čaršimamović and Dokić, who, of course, was determined by law, is now back, I said what I think about not repeating and I don't think there is a need for controversy, it was just surprising for me, in relation to the law as something that is not an argument for behavior. They have two options, so that we can make a statement about rotation, to confirm it or not, that he has called on the presidential candidate, and another to ask for ourselves, for the sake of respect itself, one responsible relationship between the current chairman, or the chairman at this point still until we choose a new one, to say, gentlemen, I could do it and I couldn't do it. It won't spoil the ceremony. You know why it won't spoil? When you put one problem to the end, what do you get at the end of this moment in this Sally? You get the fact that one of us won after a different debate and different political views of the prime minister who worked for four months. You get the fact that he's practically replaced by a rotational in one government, and that's not the same thing as in the College, I don't accept it, and it's not the same thing, because the College has a program of work on which it works and doesn't form any government chairing, no committee, no working body, he continues his work on a team of three members. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, in my opinion, is not enough and has not said excessively in this document. He could have said much broader, because this document that he brought here was one document that explains continuity, and on the other hand, positions that he would have as chairman. Why is it important that he brought this out anyway? It is important for this reason that every day, from the moment we give him confidence, he and the BiH Council of Ministers act as such, he must respond to all the functions of the Council of Ministers and must publicly say that he will do so. Of course it's clear if in a month, or 15, they're going to do something more or less work, that's another thing. Therefore, with the other part of my colleagues' 25 interventions, I completely disagree. The exposure of one who assumes the duties of the BiH Council of Ministers must be at the moment when he enters the post or when he is running or when he is running. Also, a very clear, precise statement on what he will do. He can't say, you know, since it's two or three months, I'm just gonna tell you two things I'm gonna do and I'm gonna go sit down. He is also an institution in the Constitution of institutions and by law, and he is obliged to submit information on what he will do. I know it seems irrelevant to you, or you know the Council of Ministers programme of BiH, but the problem is that every man who performs one function does so in the title and knowledge he has. He can't be nominated, he can't even accept the debate about his nomination and confirmation, and he didn't come out to get at least this kind of minimal information, and he himself said it was minimal, because it's unacceptable. I can't raise the question of where his social... unions and employers are, where his relationship with NATO is the Pact, where his relationship to concrete political issues is, if we open a debate, but that's why there are ministers. That's why I think it's very important that this foreign policy is very important, and in internal politics he's got, thank Bog, this Council of Ministers of BiH, enough ministries that will certainly increase (?) to lead a good internal policy. So, my position is, it's good that we got Mr. Raguž's exposure because it confirms that there is an institution of the BiH Council of Ministers and don't forget, everyone is different in that, and we could hear today some things that were not exactly the same, as from the chairman, to this moment, or the chairman of Mr. Tuševljak. Therefore, my position is very precise, it is good that today we first discuss whether we accept the nomination of the BiH Presidency, and when it comes to the BiH Council of Ministers, b) I also consider, as well as other MPs, that the entire list must be read and that it must be considered as the procedure in the law requires. That's my attitude. And as for these changes to the BiH Council of Ministers, did someone resign, did they withdraw, that is another question, but, by law, the chairman, if we confirm his mandate today, must confirm his mandate to all ministers, who are in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6960	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. Mr. Tokić. Replica, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6961	It's a replica to Mr Spahić. In fact, some people do have communication problems and generally communicate with themselves. It is called “I Communication” in psychology. In fact, Mr. Spahić wonders that I said that my law is not a strong argument. It would really be unserious if some MP, any one of them, said his law was not an argument. I tied that argument to something else. I said, I don't know exactly how it's defined by law, and I have to admit it's not my strong argument. So I criticized myself for not knowing how precise it is, and to claim that the law is not a strong argument is just a confirmation that some people listen to themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6962	26 [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6963	Mr. Raguž only wanted a brief intervention, so we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6964	In the function of your debate, the last sentence was mine, the preparation of the law in BiH's jurisdiction and their compliance with the international standards reached, in practical terms, will be our daily tasks. Please, I have also called on the Work Programme adopted by the House of Representatives and said that it is an integral part of this programme and therefore I did not want to elaborate each law individually now, but it is clear that it is a final sentence and that it is the primary obligation of the council. I can now tell you what all the laws you've adopted, from the Civil Service to the restitution, to a series of other laws that are already in the process and that I'm going to try to promote, and that's why I said it was important that we don't have a vacuum because it's time for money. As long as it takes this council's term, I didn't say and it's not mine to determine. Of course, there will be elections. There are positive legal regulations and they will influence, but I want to intensify council work, have communication with you and that BiH does not have a certain type of vacuum. As far as cooperation is concerned, I respect the authority of all institutions and entities, and on many occasions I have called on a large space to cooperate with them, because so far I believe there was a large vacuum. And, I think that if we really want to talk about political needs and the current moment, we need to establish the stability of the institutions. Whether Martin Raguž will lead her, I don't think it matters at this point, but stability, even if three months of quality and responsible work, and continuity, and a civilized relationship with these institutions, I think all parties would have to agree on that. But the specificization of the program is the Programme of the House of Representatives, Road map and other things I said and I didn't want to take the right to lamentate and speak here for half an hour, the laws are priority number one, as predicted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6965	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I think this is a very important moment and moment in which, in fact, the BiH Parliament is giving its political legitimacy and I would like to advocate with all MPs and MPs to take this statement more seriously about the candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers. I think all we've heard is the absolute continuity of the BiH Council of Ministers' work over the past 4-5 months. Continuity, to remind you only, means the disdain of the Bosnian-Herzegovina public for the irresponsible relationship of the minister's work, including the ministry run by the current presidential candidate, Mr. Martin Raguž, primarily from the aspect of the legislative projects. Some papers, but I have seen only one law in this period, which the BiH Council of Ministers delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, and in the meantime we have had very irresponsible relations, a series of official travel abroad, a deterioration of BiH's status in integration processes, a defacto-lost chance in this term for joining the Council of Europe in this calendar year, that I am not saying that my dissatisfaction with the work and continuity of this work has been expressed by the 27 BiH Presidency in which you, Mr. Chairman, are sitting today, very clearly, transparently, where Mr. High Representative for BiH was also. It is unacceptable at this time that for the sake of the biographical data of the BiH Council of Ministers, we choose a man who, defacto, did not offer in a segment of human rights to this Parliament a part of the laws that were mandatory under the Plan and the Programme of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the obligations that this state has made before the Council of Europe and a total respect for the European Union. Because of the continuity that is being advocated here, I ask and ask representatives in this House of Representatives not to allow this period, which I consider to be very rough, humiliating for the state of BiH, given that functions have been performed at the highest level in the BiH Council of Ministers, no continuity is allowed in the past few months. I think it's an obligation for those of us who have been here for the past two years to represent citizens, voters, peoples, entities, whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6966	Intervention, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6967	I accept critical consideration, but I don't accept untruths. And, please, Mr. Tokić, let me say, briefly, in three sentences, which I did as Minister in three months. I think I can proudly, whether I got your trust or not, go to the Bosnian Herzegovina public and face every refugee, which, I formed the ministry, put him in full office in six sectors, fought to analyse all the regulations and prepare all the regulations that are in the jurisdiction of this ministry and to establish the competent authorities and analyse each of these cases, addressed to the competent authorities. From the information in Annex 6, which was adopted by this home, which will come, because in a month it was done, which was inconceivable in relation to previous work in Annex 7, on the formation of interstate committees and one of the most competent performances in the assessment of the Office of the High Representative, not my personal, in Brussels, Geneva, on the priorities BiH needs to take, I am not speaking personally, but BiH, in order to ensure the conditions of self-sustaining return, resulting in the increased interest of the donor, who was in the downward path and accepting the co-ordinated role of this ministry and partnership together with the most responsible institutions in the international community. In addition, we have virtually intervened in terms of solving collective centres, tent settlements and creating a return core where so far there has been no return process possible. If that's small, gentlemen, in three months, I'm willing to accept that too, but don't take those cobwebs. Mr. Tokić, I've been in politics for ten years, just like you. I'm ready with every day... but that kind of politicization of an engagement that I've had in three and a half months you won't be able to sell to anyone, that's what I'm responsible for, and I don't think it's correct that I'm not for my work, nor my colleagues in the ministry deserve that kind of relationship. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6968	Thank you. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6969	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, we have today's agenda to appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, but the reasons, I suppose, a memo from the BiH Presidency chairman, and he is bound to be unable to come from the same constituent people at the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, although at one of the previous meetings of the Presidency, it is said that due to the poor work of the Council of Ministers and the chairman, the presidency will seek the early shift of the BiH Council of Ministers. Now I don't know if we should have opened up at all, or whether we should have had here, after four months, and these changes and the new program. Of course, Mr. candidate's exposé, Mr. Raguž, is good, but we adopted and accepted the exposés, and the Programme was accepted here at Parliament, the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and we formed a team that should have given certain results in a certain period of time. We don't know if there were any results today, or if there weren't any, and today we have new exposés, and they've all said before, that it's as general as it is so far, that this is all about continuity, and it's very hard to talk about today having a rotation with a new program or a single program or an exposure, that we don't have a schedule, and then it's a matter of what we did, what this Council of Ministers did, whether we should have rotations, whether we should have reports from the occasional, or reports of at least these rotations, or this is a classic change, so this is a team that we've had from earlier on which people take over and in eight months give the chairman's office. I think, if this is a appointment, that we should then discuss the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers, but I also think that we should have at the tables and the work of the previous member, i.e. the current chairman. There will be no special progress and it is very difficult to support the appointment of the chairman and appointment or cosmetic procedures in the BiH Council of Ministers itself. I can't do this, after this exposure, and after we don't have a work report over the past four months. He was supposed to be, though, eight months old. I can't give my vote to appoint the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6970	Two false allegations. Mr. Tuševljak and then Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6971	Well, I won't be long now, I'd just like to, I think it's good for everyone to ask fellow MPs that both in the evaluation of our work and in the evaluation of individuals (?). I am not vain absolutely, and I am very patient and I am not, no, let me say, reciprocated but I have not often responded, not because I ignored the allegations and attitudes in the media or attitudes from some political parties, but because I wanted to show with one patience and order that we can talk here in other ways and with arguments and slowly and patiently and to solve problems and to respect ourselves. We are, unfortunately, here often in the situation that the basic principles of BiH's constitution, about the competence of the joint bodies, about our responsibilities, are changing and replacing, that 29 topics are being replaced. That often the tour, that often over-ambitious people and the lowest rank in the hierarchy and in the scale and structure of political parties, in the diplomatic core even give general assessments and general places about the work of BiH institutions and officials in BiH, without any responsibility for that public word and, on the other hand, often give the media one tone of such communication and such a way of working. I think that such communication and such a way of working is not good for anyone here, nor for these political factors, of course, and to the most extent, it is absolutely not good for the people of BiH, it is the most damaging to them. Time will put all things in place. I would very much like the political factors here before this election to say, all the political factors, I don't belong to any political party. I found myself on this job, truly, well-meaning, if there's anything I can do with this team, let's do it. We've done a lot of things, you'll get a report about that, of course, but let me get back to the beginning of this thesis. It would be very good, let's say, if all the political factors in BiH gave a message or opinions on two things here. First of all, about reforms, about essential reforms, and they're overly related to the economic sphere, so, for economic structure, for privatisation, for transition, to say, we've told all the stories. Everything is familiar in the profession, and there are absolutely no more secrets about it. It is only a matter of political will, a political relationship to end the process, to say we are fighting for power, but regardless of who gets power, we are asking, as a position or opposition, for privatisation and transition to be completed in 2001. It will change the absolute ambience and bring about a mass of regulations and laws that will make things easier here and in the political sphere, and in this normativeism, which is sometimes orchestrated here that we have to adopt it for a second, that we have a political scene as we have, complicated, complex. We have an oranization that's complex. We have conflicting interests. We need to reach some consensus of interest or at least some balance of interest, that the state can function and that everyone is comfortable in it. On the other hand, let's say, on the basis of the experiences of others, that we also require international factors that assist us here, that the strategic capacities in BiH are privatised, under the conditions of competition, not the conditions of monopoly or oligopolic arrangements that will be bad for our economy, for our finances and for our citizens and generate, of course, this privatisation, new unemployment and that we are talking about projects that will absorb that unemployment. The third thing that I think would be very good, about which it would be very useful for us, as an executive body, to get the position of both this Parliament and the relevant political factors in this country, is the position of BiH and our relations with the international community. Every reasonable, but well-intentioned, understands that we need the international community and we need it. We are part of that organism and of that tissue, but, esteemed gentlemen, I think the time has come, that I spoke publicly on several occasions, I am an individual, citizen, voter, and, behold, still, perhaps half an hour or ten minutes, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I represent an institution. I spoke publicly in all the talks, with all international officials, I raised the issue, that it was time for us from the custody phase to open the door to the partnership with the international community and, on a one interesting basis, to build a different position and conditions for BiH. Please, do we have conditions today to discuss the development projects that we nominated at the beginning of the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, about development projects that will generate coonukture in BiH, which, of course, are projects in transport, energy and partly in agriculture and, of course, reform 30 in the financial sector. You think we do. We don't, gentlemen. We don't. You know why we don't have, Mr. Tokić, can you help me? I may not understand these things. If you have any suggestions, I'd be happy to accept it and talk to you about it, and I've asked you to talk, you've escaped. I like to talk to everyone and I like to hear different opinions. You know why, gentlemen, there isn't? We don't have conditions for that sort of thing. Because in various places and on various sides, both local and international factors, new conditions are being written to us so that we can enter into the launch of some of these arrangements. The questions are very subtle and sophisticated. It's not easy here at the pay phone, when I took my word, I want to fit into those three-minute replicas. I just want to say that what I'm saying is one illustration, which will lead us to this real field of things, that all of us, then, talk about more concrete things, interests, concrete projects, not that we're making out of every situation a politicization that we're visating, I, believe, honestly, as a pragmatic man, I don't understand what she's serving and who she's serving. Does it also serve political factors or parties? We are in position, this composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH, defacto works 100 days. Well, please, so we didn't get one second, and the attacks started from the fact that many were indisposed, because BiH has a lot of smart people, and, behold, Spasoje Tuševljak came to this place as the biggest disappointment. I accept that. Everyone has the right to have his own opinion and opinion, but it would be very polite for everyone to make arguments about the public's position and opinion, and not to say many things about the relationship between the institutions in BiH, about the issue of entity competence, the common bodies, about the relationship between the joint institutions at the level of BiH and their competences, it is now a place for novels, for essays, for large studies. Why? For various reasons, even because many may have found themselves very pleasant here to, telling only stories or giving us various assistances, often both counterproductive and often contradictory, very pleasantly living, gentlemen, here. We are often in a situation where we have around us and administration and assistance which, unfortunately, is often our own purpose and we need to talk about these things, responsibly, and as serious people. Of course, I have no intention of roseming neither the international community nor its institutions that have done much for BiH, nor any political party or political factor in BiH, because it is part of one democratic term and one democratic force. It is the structure of BiH, the one we have, but I plead to discuss how and in the existing conditions that we focus on those priorities that are fastest able to get us out of this situation, and in my opinion, gentlemen, I said that in the exposé, and I haven't changed any of what I said for iot, and in my view it is: transforming custody into a partnership, in relations with the international community, in our regulation, regulation of relations in BiH, prejudicial economy and economy, reform, privatisation, and, of course, all those political issues, without closure, which we can now and in the existing relationship of power, without politicalism, without adurism, without arbitration, we often have arbitration that is being brought into the constitution, you know. We have statements of political factors that absolutely interfere with work. One statement disrupted the work guaranteed in a month, absolutely. If someone says that the RS, as a BiH constitution, should be erased from everything, we have posters standing, I have seen BiH without entities, please, it is the BiH constitution. It's the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6972	Mr. Tuševljak, just one moment, please. You're the one who announced it, as a false allegation, and that's how I presented it. I can allow, according to the Rules of Procedure, that the candidate for the 31 chairman and chairman-in-Office can intervene at any moment, because the issue directly related to the BiH Council of Ministers is a matter. However, in your statements, I would only suggest that we limit ourselves to the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the programme of the work of ministers and the restriction and implementation of this programme, and also try to be a little shorter in the discussions, because I fear we will lose a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6973	I respect and accept. My intervention was, therefore, that if we talk about each other about work, that we must illustrate it specifically and maintain one level of culture of political communication that is not offensive to people. That's what I'm talking about. I think it's a good thing, and personally, of course, I don't think I teach anyone a lesson about style, ways of communication, qualifications, etc. I took advantage of the opportunity, and I apologize to everyone for taking so much time to say what I said, to point out as one illustration of the situation in which we are in our work, and, of course, when there's a chance, I'll tell you, there's something here and it's written, you can also get in writing for the next session or maybe after the break, to get that review, that's one review of what we've been doing. Secondly, I think, given the circumstances in which we are, and as a pragmatic man, that the message is best to perform a technical, defacto, rotation here. I don't want to give you lessons and advice, it's your right, and I don't want to usurp your right, but I've looked at these things in such a way that this composition stays to work, to do what it can do, or what its capacity is. You have the right to choose both stronger and better capacity than this and that I do not dispute with you, but in the Council of Ministers we have come to this issue in such a way and, behold, these are my interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6974	Okay, thank you. Wrong quote, Mr. Tokić, and let Mr. Malkić be prepared for the discussion, so Mrs. Špirić, Raščić, Baković, Skopljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6975	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, when I saw that two members of the Council of Ministers reported guilty allegations, I expected that they would deny something of the facts that I have stated in my statement, from the aspect of the number of laws, from the point of view that an improved economic and social opportunity, that we had drawn close to European integration, etc., instead, which I think is good for this House of Representatives to hear, we had one completely, I would say, inappropriately speaking to people who correspond to Parliament, with the labels that it was politicization, that it was casual, with trade manners to sell or not sell, which was introduced by our candidate for the chairman, to a pleasant life, and from members of the Council of Ministers who spent more than 20% of his mandate in Sydney, say, that they were happily living MPs. In that context, I would ask you to bring things to the level they are. He can't talk to the House of Representatives like this. If anyone comes forward with a false allegation, some of those facts that have been said, let them deny it. This is a typical labeling. I'm not going to tell Mr. Raguž that this period reminds me of, but in this 32 ways, you can't talk to the House of Representatives, or to finish your discussion, this cannot be sold to this House of Representatives, not to the people or to the citizens. It's simply because instead of saying that you've adopted more than, you've proposed more than one law, ten laws, you've talked about your travel abroad and you haven't denied any of what I've said in my advance. I'd like to ask you, in the future, when you're trying to make an incorrect assumption that you're exactly decidingly speaking. Your line, that and that, the number of laws, say not true, the social and economic situation, say it's not true, it's improved, say that you've brought BiH closer to European integration and, I don't repeat, your whole speech, which I've had, this one before. That, Mr. Raguž, to repeat, you cannot sell to me or to the people or to the House of Representatives, and don't even try.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6976	Please, in the wrong allegations, what Mr. Tokić said to Mr. Raguž, I think he could have applied himself. All that Mr. Raguž said that you think it's wrong, too, quote and challenge. It was beyond that, and this debate does not lead to the effective work of this parliament. Please, in the wrong allegations, you really limit yourself to treating the wrong allegations. Mr. Tuševljak called, guilty quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6977	Please, if we're a hundred days and we're just over a hundred days in office, 20% is 20 days. Mr. Tokić, I was officially in Sydney, if you're interested, and if this parliament is looking for a report from that road, you can get it. It's been seven days, maybe even less. We went right through the program, based on the preparation that was done, very precise and professionally, and I wouldn't go any further details if it wasn't about this home, but just to say that it was absolutely wrong. It's 20% guilty of allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6978	Mathematically proven. Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž is also blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6979	I'm really sorry, and I really want to make it clear. I have an extraordinary respect, and I've always tried to point to each of you MPs and to this home. My answer to Mr. Tokić was an answer to what this ministry did. So I compared the arguments. I haven't made any policy. From regulations to formation, to sectors, to activities on the international agenda, to coordination with other institutions and to cooperation with other bodies, and I just said that the flat-rate Mr. Tokić gave cannot stand at the beginning, but that the facts should be discussed and I said that we cannot place such a flat-rate here. I respect Mr. Tokić and his function, but I think and remain behind the facts and for the one in a short time in a hundred days what has been done in this ministry, that I and my associates can be proud of it and that's what I've been saying, Mr. Tokić. I don't have anything else to say, and I wouldn't introduce any shop. 24 33 hours without family and with family, open to parties, open to all people. Is that enough or isn't it, peel, I mean, it's one popular jargon, it's not an insult. I'm ready for that kind of blow. But let me say that if I did something, this Parliament and the public should know that too. In the end, I called in the metrics. Check the High Representative's assessment, check the assessment of UN refugee commissioners, check the UNHCR evaluation here and all relevant institutions involved in the implementation of Annex 7. Don't use my grade, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6980	Please, according to Article 55, point 2. The Rules of Procedure may request a word to correct a quote that is incorrectly cited and which may be the cause of a misunderstanding or which requires an explanation. The chairman gives the MP, immediately after the person whose statement has caused the need for an explanation, completes his speech. In that case, the representative must be limited to correction, i.e. to explain, and that explanation can't last more than three minutes. I ask all MPs to keep this in mind. The next reported is Mr Malkić, and let Mr Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6981	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the exposure presented to us in this paper is quite correct and that it reflects the interests of the state and state authorities quite well, then the issues of economic and economic reform, and the issue of return and reconstruction at the state level. However, there is one weakness, it is here, it is said: it will advocate establishing partnership relations with the international community and agencies and institutions involved in implementing the Peace Agreement on BiH. I believe that partnership relations should be established, however, we are still in the phase of co-operation, i.e. meeting the commitments made under the Dayton Agreement, especially when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal. The second thing, that is, the technical problem of this exposure is the following. I'll leave this material, archive it into my materials, my child may be reading tomorrow or a few days from now, and they won't find out who the proposed candidate is. I believe that, because it comes from a man, a person who, above all, is a Hrvat and also a member of the HDZ, and is so commendable about the state, or the construction of the state, should stand out that my child knows tomorrow who wrote this and how he spoke about the state of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6982	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Divković. Mr. Divković, you can ask for an explanation and you can ask for a quote to be corrected.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6983	Mr Malkić, in his presentation, in the end, did not know if I would quote him, said about this, since the Hrvat prime minister and I do not know further, comes from HDZ, I do not continue to replicate it, and this is how it is commended about BiH. This Hrvat, and commendable of BiH, implies to me that the Hrvat, in principle, are negatively expressing themselves about BiH, which I absolutely, 34 as a man, do not accept, because this country is nothing less than Malkićev's and how long in that country, Malkić, if I showed you and others, would remain surprised.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6984	So Mr. Divković asked Mr. Malkić for an explanation, so I can do business.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6985	If I offended one of the Hrvat, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6986	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6987	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to help at this point where this debate ends and simply enters the stage that all BiH institutions can function. The constitutional provision is the principle of rotation and BiH and its institutions must show that they are able to implement the principle at each level, in order to function BiH as a state, it is very important to me. It is important for the reason I want to draw your attention to the situation and the environment in which the BiH Council of Ministers was located, when it was elected in this session and when many cared to show that nothing could work in BiH. So, she did not want to send a message to the citizens, that we will all fight for the good, prosperity, development and regulation of relations in BiH, but that BiH cannot function that way. I want to tell you that even then, as an MP, I was quite adept at criticizing the work of the then Council of Ministers, and I think I belonged to the category of perhaps Members who did it most strongly, in a verbal sense. I want to put the situation back, to remind you that three co-chairs of the Council or the Council of Ministers of BiH came with security. It was an environment that did not guarantee an atmosphere in which BiH would be well. I must say, the election of this Council of Ministers created an atmosphere that requires BiH. So maybe this Council of Ministers has just covered the area of some political options that can't show that it's their work, I won't go into it, but I have to say quite safely and responsibly that this Council of Ministers, or this assembly, without complexes, has been discussing all sorts of things. So, no complexes, in a friendly atmosphere. It is a desirable concept and an environment for BiH, which I am convinced of. If we've done everything, much or little, it's up to you, of course, to say it. I am sorry that, here, the chairman, Mr. Tuševljak did not bear the exposés of what was done and I do not want to sit in an organ saying that nothing was done, and I will draw your attention only to the things we have done, which we have said in the context of the previous ministerial council that are important, that they are necessary for BiH. You know that this meeting consists of a bill on the Treasury of BiH institutions. The law has been verified by this parliament. I think it's working, although I was one of the MPs who had some serious objections to such a law, but those 35 remarks fell into the water when the Treasury was formed. It is an important legal project that is in the interest of BiH and its institutions. What's further done? A decision was made on the formation of the Red Cross or the Red Cross of BiH, and you know that the decision was incomplete for two years and that the previous Council of Ministers could not agree on the decision and, of course, I think that, to the general satisfaction of the citizens of BiH who have also attended the international institutions, praises also came to the Council of Ministers for such a move. Then, the Law on the financing of political parties. The proposal was also discussed by the BiH Council of Ministers and was confirmed by this representative council, which is not irrelevant to BiH and the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. Then, the proposal for a framework law on the Rules of Procedure, I do not remember or the Law on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, which also could not have been passed in the previous assembly for known reasons. Then, the Law on Veterinary Service and a roof institution at the level of BiH and a series, I would say, has ratified major international, financial agreements with the most important international institutions, largely dependent on both the economic and social situation in BiH. Unfortunately, this has been confirmed by the Council of Ministers or others, and it will be so in BiH for a long time, because the level of employment of the workforce capacity, etc., at that level that, without the help of the international community, we can choose whoever you want, there will be no movement in BiH, that is our reality. This was all done by the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is the subject of debate and criticism, sometimes with the right sometimes with less rights and I am not angry, of course, when we are from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the wallpaper. When it comes to the ministry I belong to, which mentions the name of Mr. Martin Raguž as the new chairman, I must be pleased to say that Mr. Raguž is a man who has introduced a new style, not only in the work of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, but also in the Council of Ministers of BiH. It is about a man who has shown a tendency to organise and quickly establish such an important ministry at the state level, it is about a man who is ready for dialogue and things he disagrees on, a man who is willing to work in the interest of BiH citizens. That is what I know and what I am obliged to say in front of the BiH public. Of course, as in the previous session, there is a need here for a consensus of those political entities who want to reach a rotation in the Council of Ministers, in the interest of BiH as a state. All others who are fighting for the reverse concept, I want to argue that they are not working in the interests of the people and the citizens of BiH. As far as I'm concerned, politics is not my profession. I mean, you have MPs, my colleagues who I've worked with for two years, absolutely the right to criticise, change and supplement, but I think for BiH it's important in this interengum (?) Pre-election campaigns that have the Council of Ministers and that it is better for BiH to remain an existing calling than to change, because it is a short time, given the implementation of new election results. So please, it is the right of every MP to criticise the BiH Council of Ministers with arguments, I am not angry with it, to shorten the debate, unless there are new arguments, to approach the plea, to get to the rotation, so that BiH institutions function. I must say that I am glad that Mr. Martin Raguž's name is offered from the order of the Croatian people to this place, because I said it was about a man who is ready for dialogue, who has all the qualities to be chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much, in that sense I will support this solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6988	Thank you, Mr. Raščić, and let Mr. Baković prepare himself. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6989	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests, through newspaper articles I have often listened to our state and our institutions obstruct, by certain requirements, the admission to the Council of Europe, and I really did not understand how our institutions could not agree, at least on the issues asked of them. I would like to point out that at the last session, in the fourth session, we had a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the procedure for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. Today, listening to a simple protocol thing where the rotation of people engaged in this assembly was supposed to happen, there is an open debate and obstruction that is amazing and rude to this institution that I belong to. Unfortunately, I note that this obstruction belongs exclusively to opposition parties and I really don't understand their impulses, especially as opposition parties have formed a shadow government called the Alternative Council of Ministers. They didn't tell us which congregation, because it's probably an illegal congregation. Given that I am a legalist by nature and that I support the legal institutions of the system, I believe that this kind of circulation and attempt to lead voters astray is ridiculous and pathetic, and the population of the left that is trying to create in BiH versus right-wing pulsism, which is spreading like a bauku to Evropa, I don't think it will contribute to good processes after the election. The assembly was tortured and barely established by the BiH Council of Ministers after months, almost half a year of wild debates and barren tirads. We have established a Council of Ministers, we have the honor of seeing it, we have the honor of having them participate in serious institutions, negotiations, solving issues that are of the interest of the entities and citizens of this country, and in the end, when two people are to be conspired, we have such farces. I would like to read from this case, which Ambassador Igor Gaon referred to, where in the last paragraph of his letter, which he writes about BiH's accession procedure to the Council of Europe, he says, note, that in the Council of Europe very negatively received information that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not adopted, etc., which is taken as evidence, further evidence that BiH authorities are unable to function. So they think we really need a tutor. And this behavior that we have in the congregation, unfortunately, also confirms to me that there seem to be forces that do not want this country to be guided by peoples and peoples who live in it and intend to live. I support the exposés of Mr. Raguž, for the very reason that I see that he is not contrary to the work programme, neither to this assembly nor to the government that we, or to the Council of Ministers, have formed and voted for, because I see that he has an intention, I will say to the youth, that he is ambitiously trying to speed up and complete the strategic projects of economic and social reforms that cannot be passed without this Council of Ministers and, of course, if this were to be carried out, it would probably not be possible to implement these tirads. Obviously, he said that it is necessary to upgrade existing legal solutions, which we are also aware of, making new projects in a way that will follow European standards in a functional and practical way. I don't think we should obstruct this rotation, and I think we should be proud of this institution, which, however, works correctly. Thank you. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6990	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić had the wrong quote. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6991	A false allegation by counterpart Raščić, who said opposition parties formed an alternative ministerial council. I'm in the opposition party, because that's how they judge me, and I am in the opposition party. I must state that my party has not formed an alternative ministerial council. Secondly, I cannot accept Mr Raščić's way of talking to MPs, and since I do not want to discuss it that way, I will not respond to his insinuations.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6992	Thank you. Mr. Raščić. I think this is useful information about the alternative council. Mr. Raščić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6993	Indeed, I do not use the insinuations and as much as I know from the means of information, and I think you should know, too, colleague Muminagić. The President of the Alternative Council of Ministers is Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, your prominent member, and I do not think he should be able to perform such a function unless he has obtained consent from your main committee, because it is a serious institution and I believe that this Parliament and this Council of Ministers should have some kind of shadow government, which should contribute constructively to their work, i.e. to adopt some alternative programmes, alternative laws, to point out certain problems, systemic solutions, non-functional institutions, etc. As far as I can tell, at least I've been following through some press statement, I think it's even done in your rooms. I have no intention of stumbling anyone, because I said I didn't know what alternative assembly set up an alternate ministerial council. Since I, as a man, am trying to be informed, did not know which assembly, the alternate assembly formed an alternative ministerial council. I consider the work of that congregation in deep illegality, and I did not call you that you formed it. Which is an alternate assembly, I don't know, and I didn't, therefore, make any insinuations. But I'm saying that your personnel are a key figure in the alternate Council of Ministers. As for other insinuations, I would ask you to specifically tell me and I am willing to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6994	So Mr. Raščić explained his views and motivation on which he based his evaluation. Mrs. Muminagić is looking for, probably, an additional explanation or, please. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6995	Every member, including a member of the leadership, has the right to join and work where he wants to work. Therefore, it is your fault that an authority had to give him consent to work in an alternative ministerial council, and secondly, you said the opposition parties formed an alternative ministerial council. We can look at the stenogram, I didn't hear you ask us what congregation formed it. The opposition parties didn't form it or, if some did, I don't know, maybe they did, they weren't the ones that were here, and you were just thinking about us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6996	Thank you. Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6997	I apologize for this pressure on all of you, trying to just justify my personality. I would ask you not to judge me by what I thought but by what I said. I didn't say the SDP formed an alternative ministerial council. I told the opposition parties, and I said against what I saw in the means of information, and I didn't say that you were the alternative assembly that works in total illegality. So, I didn't say that, and what I mean, I'm not, believe me, a man who avoids saying what he thinks, is that you've had a chance to see in my years of work and in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6998	Is it an explanation or a wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u6999	I think we can also discuss the work of the Alternative Council of Ministers and it is not right to start a whole series of other issues here, which are moving away from the main topic we have here, but the way this institution is trying to talk about, at the very least, puts me in a position to say very clearly. The Alternative Council of Ministers has proposed more laws than the Council of Ministers officially, which you have supported during this term of office as well as in the previous term of office.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7000	Thank you. Please, let's stick to the rules of procedure. All right, Mr. Raščić, you will be given the floor, but when the debate on the work of the Alternative Council of Ministers is on the agenda, you can talk about the number of laws that have been passed, and this is a discussion where an MP can get an immediate word, if he asks for an explanation or a correct quote. Here you go, sir. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7001	I would like to address Mr. Tokić, since my participation in this assembly has passed the laws she has passed, or tried to pass the laws she has passed. Mr. Tokić, this assembly is obstructing the work of the Council of Ministers. The first thing she hadn't formed in almost half a year, she was sneezing and she was making circulations by means of information. Now that we have formed it and when it is necessary to make a protocol change to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, we have begun to make tirads and to say what this is not the Council of Ministers has done, and we have not made it possible for it, because for three months it is not a serious period for man to ask for responsibility for their activities, and I can tell you that you who support sport, you are in this assembly the man who represented this state and this ministerial council called for him to go on a tourist trip and went after the decision of the Council of Ministers. You create confusion, because you know that our people are very poor and that the journey to distant Australia, with a diplomatic passport, is not at the cost of those representatives and my friends who have traveled at full prices, and you see what their number is. Those who can afford it, that's fine, and as for the chairman and the people sent by the Council of Ministers to represent this country, I think they should be proud, because, as far as I know, it's the first time we've represented BiH in such a delegation, even if it was the Olympics. As for the Alternative Council of Ministers, my former Serbian studio acquaintance told me that Mirjana Marković and her party organisation have some coordination with you, and I will not call you because I heard it from communication, because Mirjana Marković is no longer a person who is politically significant and will not remain unknown to the general public.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7002	Thank you. Mr. Tokić, intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7003	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course, I'm not going to comment on this part that is not consistent with the comment, but I'd just like to underline it. On several occasions there were discussions about a trip to Sydney. Let me remind the House of Representatives, and also BiH, I mentioned this in the context of the negative assessment that the BiH Presidency gave about this trip and it was in public, very clearly, transparently speaking and was in the presence of High Representative Petrič. So, what you're telling me is that the honor, let me say, that the president of your party that it was not an honor, but I don't want to replicate it anymore, I just want to say that my exposure had that note and that it was a very clear criticism, and then it was ordered whether it was 15% or 20%, whether it was an honor, whether Mr. Tuševljak was a sportsman, represented a sport, I wouldn't be talking about it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7004	Okay, thank you. Mr. Baković next, let Mr. Skopljak be prepared. After that, Mr. Dokić and it is a list of the reported. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7005	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Parliament, on this matter, I'll say a few words. I don't know, but a man gets a little hair up, his skin creeps when he hears everything, how much he goes out to discuss, how many words are thrown into the blank, how much nonsense is exculpated? And then sometimes I'd say that there's a lot of lashes, a lot of travailing, etc. I think it's wise here to support the functioning of BiH institutions, because that's the only way we're going to say it and we're going to convince everyone, Mr. Tokić, just smile, I know you're smiling at me, but it's not affecting anything, we're just gonna prove that we are for BiH. If we keep creating crisis situations and denying everything and destroying everything and treating nihilistic against everything, then I don't know how we can be qualified, who are we? Are we for BiH or not? I don't think so, but the pre-election canonda has begun, and we've already seen the work. However, I once said, I think it was then Mr. Tuševljak's choice for the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that I will respect the results of the next elections and even if the SDP comes to power, I will be a legislator and respect the SDP, although I do not love it. I don't love him. I have reason not to love him, but it's my personal matter. However, I will be a legitimateist, if people give their votes to them, however, the existing institutions, the technology of the current government and these mechanisms should now be respected. Therefore, in that sense, I say that the BiH Council of Ministers should be supported, let them do their job and Mr Raguž's choice should be supported, because this is a normal situation and allow them to do their job. Everything else is just empty stories, and the pre-election canonda has begun, however, we will see what the results will be. I agree here with Mr Špirić that he has given the emphasis and the emphasis that the existing institutions in BiH are functioning and that this is the only guarantee and the only provision that will, as far as possible, be one normal situation in this country. Everything else is just the creation of a gift-mara, the creation of chaos, the creation of crisis situations, and there are some who enjoy being sadomasochism, to create a ghoul, to create a mess, etc., and I don't think there's any benefit, and most people's masses have much harm.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7006	Mr. Tuševljak, brief intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7007	I hope I won't be as long as I wasn't, I guess, and I'll try to be very positive. It seems to me that in this debate, it's more important who talks than what he says, what he's suggesting, and it seems to me that we're so focused and that's how we do it, to say the least, and we're used to it. The establishment and work of the Council of Ministers of BiH is certainly our goal, in my view, and in this context, the sitting-cante (?), or, if I have to translate it, an empty chair, or unconstituting and leaving empty space, I don't think it's useful for anyone, either, or for any ideology, to actually do any good. Actually, I'd like to say we shouldn't do that. We have to give people a chance. If we accept that chance 41, that is, if they will be able to do it at all, it depends on whether we vote today, or whether we give them such a chance or not. The exposés of Mr. Raguž, perhaps, in my opinion, is more extensive, may be more ambitious than perhaps the time and space in which he may act, but all of these are hypotheses, and I believe that in that context, a majority of what we have heard here is trying to achieve, and how he will try to achieve if we do not give him confidence. We are, in fact, in contradiction today. We keep asking Mr. Tuševljak for a report on what he has suggested here and what he has achieved, and today we don't simply give this breath report to let it simply come to terms, as such. I'm asking you here, really, very well-intentioned, that this is the same report given by someone else, with some other name and last name, I'm not talking here about the name and last name of any people but by any party, please, if you understand me very well, I'm wondering how this report would be accepted. Let's think this through a little bit. I don't think there'd probably be this kind of discussion and debate. To think positively, I will say here and loudly and loudly that I support Mr. Divković Ivo in every word he last said here in his debate. So in this context, I welcome him and join him, if that means anything, with my ideas, or with my opinions. And indeed, in the end, not wanting to be maligned again, this reminds me again of that voting plan of ours, where some people, I also don't want to call anyone's names special here, that everyone will recognize. Some people are trying to make sure that the more abundant plan is adopted, and then they didn't really try to make it happen, so that someone else's guilt would fall on their backs. I ask you, let us be clear about these proposals and that these discussions, which no longer lead to a positive goal, we once put an end to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7008	Mrs. Muminagić needed an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7009	I am, in fact, asking for an explanation from counterpart Baković who spoke earlier and said in a certain way that we do not want to support the government, in other words that we are not legalists. It can be drawn from all of this, and that conclusion can be drawn from the whole discussion. I am now asking a question from my colleagues, whether we are legalists then and whether we support the government when we give consent to its appointment or when we support it, we support the laws that the government is proposing. I know I supported the law the government has proposed here. Here, let's all ask ourselves, are we, which government? The BiH Council of Ministers that was being discussed. So you can't say we didn't give her support. We can't just support personal choices and obstruct the government when it proposes laws. So I'd like to explain ourselves when we support the government and we don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7010	Mr. Baković's explanation requested. Baković's answering for word. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7011	I'm gonna be pretty casual, pretty open, pretty specific. I think if from your party or from your party, every session comes to a vain waste of time, bickering, propaganda performances, escapades, etc. And where we're being taken away at every session for two, three, four hours, and it's all systematic and meaningful, I think there's a reason for us to get a little worried and maybe give some qualifications that may not be the most likable. However, in fact, if the election takes place that and that party to power, I am a legitimateist and it should be welcomed, but this statement by some members of your party, constantly that someone bombing, denying, always, and where there is success, that these successes are denied, and where there is to be stimulated by optimism and some brightness, you don't give it, you simply worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7012	Mr. Dokić, the discussion, is a exhausted list of debaters. Mr. Dokić will not cause replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7013	There is always a foreword, of course, that all that happened about this item on the agenda, better say on all of this, could have once envied us of the Čkalja when from some shows, he said: “We are seizing ourselves, we are swimming away”; indeed, when both good or evil exceed every measure, then we do not feel it. I think we put this other one here too much of ourselves and we don't feel it. Gentlemen, we are far from ideal solutions. We're really far from the ideal solutions. We need to get close to that. In this context, I would remind you of an Arabic proverb that says “we often repent of something before we have done it, yet we do it”, so understand this however you want. So, let me move on to a concrete proposal. It is my call to you, gentlemen, that we vote for this technical rotation of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that it implies that the next assembly, for the next session, a written report on the work so far is delivered, and that should be the practice of future rotations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7014	Thank you. The list of registered debaters has been exhausted and I declare the debate closed. According to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 115, point 2., after the President has read the decision, the word is given, i.e. to the candidate for the chairman, to explain his political programme, which will be the debate that is over. The approval of the appointment will be put to the vote in accordance with Article 67(3), which means that it is required to know individually how anyone has declared himself, in order to make it public, as it stands here in the Rules of Procedure. I must speak here to the Rules of Procedure, and I ask that the member of the Secretariat, by calling, make a statement confirming the appointment of Mr Raguž as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7015	Alagić Raifa – for Bičakčić Edhem – absent Rijad Munira – for Čaršimamović Tarik – for Kulović Hamdija – absent Rakić Mara – absent Genjac Halid – for Rađević Smail – for Kadić Desanka – abstention of Dokić Branko – for Špirić Nikola – absent Pamuk Mustafa – absent Karić Haris – absent Spahić Ibrahim – absent immediately Lagumdžija Zlatko – against Mijačević Ivo – absent Muminagić Suada – against Divković Ivo – against Bojdić Bogičević – against Sejfudin Tokić – against Đedović Ibrahim – absent Ana Havel – absent Zovko Ljubomir – absent Deretić Miodrag – for Perkanović Bogić – for Dragan Milenka – for Mirko – for Mirko Zažar Za Miražanić Zamić
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7016	Filipović Mediha – for. I'm announcing the results of the vote. Of the 32 MPs present, 22 votes against 7. From the Federation of BiH for 11 – from RS for 11. Therefore, the proposal also received a supra-half majority and needed number of votes per entity and 44 Mr. Raguž was confirmed as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I congratulate Mr. Raguž and give a five-minute break after which Mr. Raguž will declare himself. A five-minute break for Mr. Raguž to prepare or the Minister's proposal immediately or so. Is Mr. Raguž ready to propose candidates for ministers and deputy ministers immediately? Ready. Here you go. Every club of MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the right to demand a break of half. The SDP club is looking for a five-minute break. There are 28 MPs, therefore, we can continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We move to item b) of the first item of the agenda. (b) Confirming the appointment of members of the BiH Council of Ministers I will only remind you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman proposes by ministers and deputies, the House of Representatives confirms. Following a proposal from the chairman, it is possible to open the debate and the vote on the proposal can be held without the respect of Article 67, as necessary in the event of the appointment of the chairman. I call upon the Chairman, Mr. Raguž, to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7017	I would like to thank the gentlemen of the chairman, thank the BiH Presidency, the ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, allow me to thank you for your confidence. This is one truly sincere feeling of gratitude, and at the same time I want to repeat what I said that I will try to do everything within my capacities to make this council and BiH institutions work on the well-being of all people in BiH and on the well-being of all BiH citizens and peoples. You will assess it, i.e. the public and other competent institutions, and I want to thank those who had a different opinion once more. I think that in one critical debate as it was today, let my name be also concerned, there was an atmosphere that could be discussed, where we are going both politically and constitutionally and partyly and organisationally and legally, and let it be one step and one step that will improve tomorrow, I would be happy, and I believe the people I'm going to propose now. I said in the introduction, aware of all the restrictions, deadlines, pre-election activities, obligations that the Council has, that it does not interrupt the continuity of the session and that it is working daily, regardless of the pre-election time, and also because of the fact that I believe that people in the Council of Ministers of BiH have professional and other qualifications, along with one, will not be angry with Mr Tuševljak, the dimension that I should now give, firmly, organisationally, and can show results, with all due respect again to what he did as chairman. My proposal is next. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry, Minister Mirsad Kurtović. I don't think it should be specifically explained, that this is the person who has all the references to lead one of these responsible and demanding ministries, with deputies Mr. Mića 45 Vuković and Mr. Zlatan Ištvanić, whom I appoint to this place instead of Mr. Velimir Lovrić, I have already explained the situation. The ministry of civil affairs and communication, Minister Tihomir Gligorić. Regardless of certain reserves previously made public by some people, I think that for a short time he has shown exceptional responsibility to the ministry, the powers of this ministry and the responsibilities of the entire Council and I am prepared to formulate this proposal with deputies, persons who cooperate well, this is Mr. Nudžeim Rečica and Mr. Valentin Ćorić. The foreign ministry. Minister, Mr. Jadranko Prlić and his deputies, Mr. Husein Živalj and Mladen Bosić. I think that the team that is currently in view of the obligations both at the Zagreb summit and at the commitments that BiH has should not be interrupted in that one upward path, and I think it is necessary to support it in this regard. The European Integration Ministry, Mrs Bisera Turković, with her deputies Lidija Topić and Milan Blagojević, I think they have shown and set up a framework for the ministry's work in a short time and will continue with the same quality and work in the future. The Treasury Department. Minister Dr. He's saving the Tuševljak. I am firmly convinced that in this professional section, when part of the presidency's obligations are released, he will show that it is a responsible, professional person, who can, in this reform, institutional sense, in terms of the financial, complete sector of functioning of institutions, give a strong contribution, with deputies Mrs Fatim Leho and Anton Ril, also, to persons who have shown absolutely in these few months that they are willing to work maximum and cooperate. The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees with Deputys Dr. Nikola Špirić and Mr Fadil Haverić, with whom, regardless of the weight of this issue and problems, I have managed to make one communication that guarantees that we can continue to deal with this issue responsibly, you will judge the results. So, gentlemen, that's the proposal I'm putting before you and thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7018	Thank you, I'm just adding. Ministers' biographies and deputy ministers were given to you during the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers in the previous composition, and this amendment, Mr. Zlatan Ištvanić, you also received a biography of candidates today. I'm opening a debate. Thank you. I, as far as I can see, have not been reported for the discussion and I am putting the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers before a statement, before the MPs. We can plead by lifting the charts, because no individual statement is necessary here. 46 Therefore, I call on MPs to raise a corresponding record of who is in favour of confirming the proposal of the chairman around the ministers and deputy ministers. Who's in? In the second step, we'll be against it. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. We're approaching the entity vote. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Thank you. From the RS, who's in? Thank you. Of the 28 present, 19 voted against 6 and 3 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH for 10, from RS 9, the proposal of ministers and deputy ministers, which was presented by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, was confirmed by the need for a supremacy majority and the required number of votes per entity. I thank and congratulate you, and as we have announced, after this point, an hour's break. We'll continue at four o'clock, please. Meanwhile, the commission, as read, should consider amendments. I ask the MPs to take their seats, we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] Do we have a quorum? - 23, thank you. Please, let's get back to work. Before we move to the next item of the agenda, I call on the President of the Constitutional Commission to explain the possible situation with regard to the draft ombudsman law, in order to make assumptions, in fact, that the law should be passed on to the proposal, to allow MPs to submit amendments. Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7019	The draft law on the ombudsman of BiH is a law that has been in parliamentary procedure for several months and has been one of the sets of laws in achieving the fundamental human rights for which BiH has been defined and for which the House of Representatives has been defined. Also, the adoption of this law is one of the key features in implementing the Brussels Declaration's decisions as well as in meeting BiH's requirements for entry into the Council of Europe. Since we are about to, as Mr Malkić has already said, highlighting the deadline, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, the Constitutional Commission has proposed, considering today the draft law on the Ombudsman of BiH, that the draft of this law should be translated into the Bill, and that the House of Representatives should act and that it should accept immediately, so that MPs may, in the coming time, therefore, in the course of the day, consider other issues, submit amendments in accordance with this law. I suggest, therefore, Mr. Chairman, that you put on a statement to the House of Representatives this fact, and we draw it from that conclusion of the House of Representatives that, possibly after the session of the Commission, in this case, the Constitutional Commission, there may be some changes in the agenda. We believe that this 47 exists both procedurally and legally, as well as the fact of the political need that this home has been determined to solve the Ombudsman issue for BiH in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7020	You heard the explanation. The reason is also, at this point, we will plead, for a reason, if we were to move to review in the second reading, that the committee in charge has until the end of this session to consider amendments, i.e. by the time we reach the 6th point, that the committee in charge should consider amendments. Therefore, I will leave it before the MPs to plead on this proposal, and I ask you to make a statement. Who is it to turn the draft basic law on the Ombudsman of BiH into a proposal for a basic law on the ombudsman of BiH, to be considered in the second reading? Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? We vote on entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 25 present, 17 against 7, abstention 1. By entities, from Federation of BiH 14 – from RS 3. Therefore, the proposal has received most of the MPs present, but not the necessary entity structure of the vote and has not been accepted. Thank you. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. A proposal to amend and supplement the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for the year 2000 Please the chairman of the Finance Commission that, if necessary, it submits shorter... or interprets the report, if necessary. The Commission has no need. You got the report. You got the text of the report. You could have read it. You saw there that amendments were accepted and I'm opening a debate. Mrs. Muminagić is picking up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7021	The Rules of Procedure of our House, in Article 107, provides for the adoption of amendments to the Budget to be made in the same way as the adoption of the Budget. I would like to point out that we did not have such a procedure when considering this proposal. Of course, that makes it harder to make a statement about this, I'd say budget rebalancing, that's a shorter word for this big title. What led me to come out and say something about this is that we, as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, although we are in the debate on the execution of the Budget, I think it was in nine months, and perhaps even in six, more and I forgot, in 1999 we decided that we would consider and look closely at the achievement of the Budget in 1999, because we had a lot of objections to this budget and its achievement. I want to find out here that we haven't received a report on the execution of the Budget in 1999, even though it's a constitutional obligation. 48 Secondly, we have written in our work programme that it is not a constitutional obligation, but we have assessed that it is necessary, and the BiH Council of Ministers in a previous meeting, but it does not matter in which session it has accepted, that we will consider the report in six months. We didn't even get that. Now we've got, to put it this way, budget rebalancing, with insufficient reasons for change. I was able to see from this all the two things that the BiH Presidency has led, as a proposing, that is, the Council of Ministers, which has prepared for rebalancing, which is including the donations of these governments to other countries and the curative differences that have taken place in the implementation of international obligations. For these course differences, I have nothing to say, it has been established by law, in which way, when a change of course occurs, it is being filled, the funds are being provided, and that is fine, however, my objection to this law, not the implementation of the Budget, but my objection to the pre-amendment of the Budget is that we did not get the reasons in which the revenues were made. We see here that the abortion of income and the original revenue of budgets, administrative taxis, is very high 5.3 or 5.4 million dinars, KM, and there's no reason why it came to this, it just says that the funds are not paid to Budget. Let me remind you that last year we had a problem that the funds were not paid at all in Budget. Now it cannot be concluded whether the funds have been realised, whether fees have been charged, and not paid in Budget. I remember, and now I will remind you, when we considered the draft Budget for 2000, or draft, my proposal was to install provisions in the Budget Implementation Act to ensure that this revenue is fully and timely income in the budget and to determine who is responsible and who will control these revenues. We in this proposal to amend and supplement Budget... whether this was done and whether these funds were really rejected or just not paid into Budget. The second thing I wanted to draw attention to, is that we don't have enough reasons why certain items of expenditure have been reduced more, and some less, why some users, because they only have income here, expenditure spent by six months. Why do some users have more reduced resources and others have fewer? We'd have to know that. Why does a person’s resources shrink more, and others less, that’s in the way of reason. It's just the numbers that say it's done. The third or fourth is this proposal of my amendment. I mean, the amendment was backed by the commission. You will plead on this commission proposal, but for me it is inappropriate and from the BiH Presidency's proposal, and from the Council of Ministers, I don't know who was the initiator of this meeting, now it doesn't matter, we got it like this, that this one proposal is found in the Amending and Supplement of the Budget, because Budget can only be changed if the incomes are increased original or any other and if the expenditure items change, and here we introduce a completely new solution that is, right to tell you, me and unclear, which can't even be calculated for which purposes will be spent and in what amount. This is just a way to untransparently collect income, eventually collect, because this is also a dubiosis, whether these revenues can be collected at all, and to spend non-transparently. For me, this proposal of Article 4, there is no place in the Amendments and Supplements proposal, and I would ask you to support me as far as the amendments are concerned, and as far as the Members of the SDP's Club are concerned, we cannot support this kind of rebalancing, for the reasons that I have said. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7022	Thank you. Is there anyone else to report for the hearing? Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7023	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly passed a Law on the financing of political parties before the BiH Council of Ministers proposed a rebalancing of the Budget of BiH. The Law on the financing of political parties explicitly states that the financing of political parties takes place from the budget of the BiH state and other budgets, entities, cantons and municipalities, and a procedure for financing political parties in this regard. I believe that the rebalancing proposal should have found a point of financing political parties, or parliamentary groups in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and this time, it is a formal remark, even if there are no planned funds for parliamentary groups. Accordingly, given that the new chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers is here, I propose that, in accordance with the Law on the financing of political parties, the text of the budget of Budžet, or the Budget of BiH, the item of funding of parliamentary groups in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House is to be included, and to establish an item that does not have to be greater than one mark per party for this year. It will be enough to include it in the budget and it seems to me that, as many parties as there are, 13 or 14 marks, can be found in the budget as an item. On behalf of the Liberal Democratic Party, I accept that we will receive a stamp from the state budget for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7024	Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? As far as I can tell, there isn't. I'm calling Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7025	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have answered my word to say a few things. We discussed this material at the Finance and Budget Commission and supported the adoption today of the Law amending the Budget Act and amending the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations. I agree with my colleague, Suad, we should have received a series of data so that we could discuss Budget differently and better qualityly, on the other hand, in the procedure envisaged for the adoption of Budget and the rebalancing of Budget, we did not even have a proposing representative on the Commission today, which is the BiH Presidency. However, knowing all those obligations that are important, from the IMF's point of view and other institutions that are accompanied by economic, monetary and other developments in BiH, and considering the changes that have been made, which, in our opinion, do not seem to be very essential, we have given support, and I am also supporting the adoption of today's amendments and additions to the budget. I think that, if we're going to do it, and we're probably not going to do it, but the next parliament, that we have to give a different review, because what's given to us, I don't think it's acceptable that in this way they give data and that in one ignoring way no one appears to give specific questions, explanations, because there's no point in bothering the assembly with all these questions, so that we can clearly look at the budget's spending in a transparent way and how who behaves from some of the participants who spend budget. 50 I support Mrs Havel and accept this amendment, because I do not think it is Mrs Muminagić, forgive me, forgive me, Suada, because I do not think it is a place in the Budget that we are creating extra-budgy incomes, that it is defined by the Budget Act that this should be defined by some other law, and that Budget must be clean, transparent and clear to the end both in terms and in income. What is very important here, where the incomes are congested, where we swore that by adopting the Law on Administrative Taxes, we would get significant original incomes increased, you see that it has proved that there are no such incomes and that there are not so many requests and that these requirements are the largest of the DKPs and that the biggest incomes are made there, because the citizen is directed to solve his problem where he is directed, and we can establish his rights, he will address where he can solve his problem quickly and efficiently. So what we expected to win with that law is clear that these revenues will be about the same as they were in '99. And that there will be no significant change. In the end, then, I support the adoption of a bill like this to amend the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7026	Thank you. I call on someone on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers to close the debate if needed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7027	Okay, all of these questions are mostly with the answer in the explanation, which is an integral part of this material, but I'm definitely going to do some things again, because that's the way it should be and that's the order. We are, in fact, talking here about a technical adaptation of the budget needed to enable the institutions to function, and based on what has been done in the legislative procedure, the structure of the Council of Ministers of BiH has been changed and new ministries have been opened, meaning, precisely with the intention of making one transparency, so that Budget becomes one automation and that it can function, based on clear, precise positions and based on clear and precise purposes, inflows and outflows. That's how it's done. I think there's also an explanation that there's no change on the side of the inflow or change on the entity's side of the load. There's no reason for all sorts of reasons. It was also in parliament, it was on all other levels, in the positions of these total monetary, entity positions, in the positions of the Budget of Joint Institutions. We also have conditions by the IMF, related in general to the position of BiH, in the face of arrangements with finance, in addition to arrangements with our commitments, and we had to clearly fit into this framework. As far as these taxis are concerned, there's been a change because it wasn't well planned in the previous period. We had, there were expectations that these inflows would be as much as they were shown, showing the realization of the Budget that they were unrealistic changes that people would take out various certificates, beliefs, taxes, and that it would create revenues as much as it was designed. Our projection is as much as it is given based on the reality that we have in realisation so far. We also have these donations related to the Border Service. Their condition for the realisation of these donations is to make this rebalancing, that this position is in the structure of our budget, and then we'll get the financing of the Border Service, part of our commitment, and we'll get those donations, and that's 51 described. The only thing that is not clear here and that I agree with, which is not clear and that I agree that it is not clear, and could be reasons, is this Article 4 which Mrs Muminagić has given an amendment that has been accepted. I think it's better if he wasn't accepted, and it's about the next one. We have been preparing this whole series of talks with the OHR people and the IMF and the World Bank and the European Bank, looking for ways to adjust and make one passing towards BiH's economy in any way. We have, of course, come to an analysis of all this and this data, preliminary though, donor arrangements and their realizations, and these preliminary data are very bad. They are bad from the point of view of what has been done as one promotion of these processes and these aids, as one marketing and from the point of view of what is real realization in practice and what is the preliminary indication of the purposes of these funds and their consumption in practice, and then we, together with the people of the IMF, the European Bank and the World Bank, have asked for certain material assumptions to be created, based on these approved and promised funds, and at the disposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which would be the basis for BiH's financial participation in the launch of some development projects, traffic, energy, in preparation for competitions on some projects, etc., and there has been this suggestion and such construction. So, let's put this Article 4 the way it was put in place, and then by our political influence, negotiations, analysis of what has been done so far, the requirements, some initial means that would serve those purposes, precisely established procedures and based on decisions that would be made. Of course, you know there's been a pooling of these budget accounts and centralization. No conjecture was created, nor would any conjecture be made for any unintentional or non-transparent or which I know of any spending of funds. You have different attitudes about it. I don't think that's good, it's not useful, you know. It's not useful. We can discuss the mechanisms of purpose for the activation of these funds, but we would do well to fight for those funds to come to BiH, however. All the other things I think are explained. There were reductions in these costs, again to fit into some global frameworks and parameters. It's one job that's been done for a very long, one month and a half days. We also had a few problems at the Council of Ministers of BiH. Mr. Prlić challenged the budget because it cannot ensure the achievement of BiH's state policy, and it cannot provide it, and it is so much, our frameworks are so big, it is our liver so big. I, as a professional and as a financier, cannot propose anything that would endanger some other strategic interests of BiH regarding relations with international financial institutions and arrangements that are being prepared for the plan, which should be our position on the plan to fix. Now, of course, as a result of all these things and circumstances, you have the paper you have. Secondly, as far as the questions concerning the previous report are concerned, we discussed this. We inherited the circumstances we inherited, the administration we inherited, the institutions we inherited, the institution of the auditor was formed. They should do their job. We will certainly make sure that these reports, which should have been presented by others, and that the handover is done as it should be done. As far as we're concerned, I responsibly claim that this composition of these handovers will do absolutely as it is done in all normal countries. We didn't have that kind of handover. Now let me open up to you other stories about documentation, about papers, about the restructure of services, about the formation of the ministry. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7028	Let's focus on the content.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7029	I'd walk away from the subject. I suggest you adopt this proposal, as it is given, and keep this Article 4, if you have to continue to work on some regulation of procedures about possible couples that are not yet available.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7030	Thank you. I would like to remind you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the amendments adopted by the Commission, they become an integral part of the proposal and amendments to Mrs Muminagić, which relate to Article 4, and the removal of that member has been accepted, and this is now a bill in such a form and, please, given the report you received, given this presentation of Mr Tuševljak, we approach the statement. Who's in? Is this the opening statement that doesn't remove the need? Now, what I'm saying is, is it removing the need for that word or is there a need? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7031	I'm sorry to extend the session, but Mr. Tuševljak said it's not good that we don't accept this member, because I need these interventions, or I don't know exactly what he said, in the economy to do. I want to remove that misunderstanding, so it doesn't turn out that we didn't accept this now, so we can get funds to intervene in the economy. My intention with the amendment that the commission accepted was, and the commission's intention was for us to work transparently, to know what we were discussing. I'll read you that article, so if you know what this is about, then let's say that what we gave is not good. These amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions for 2000 introduce the space of the extra-budergetic item, which creates assumptions for the implementation of projects of general interest for BiH at 1% of the approved and unimplemented funds by donors at the five donor conferences held through a platform for development and intervention. The BiH Council of Ministers will regulate the way these funds are realised with special decisions. It is not clear here what sources are, how many sources these sources are, what intentions, which projects will be directed at, with one budget, and I have done so, to say, with services, of course, not alone, a few of the budgets of the Republic of BiH in due time, and I know what the budget may contain, with such regulation as is estimated not to be well left behind, we would, in fact, have made a precedent that would be far worse than we talked about, last time we discussed the Budget, I can't say whether these revenues and whether they were clear to me, but if they were, it would lead to an untransparent orientation of those funds. I want to avoid that possibility, if that is what Mr. Rakić said, if this is in real shape and there is a need for this and we have a clear approach to how we will spend these funds, please, 53 can also go through budget rebalancing. The budget rebalance is not a done deal. It can be by the end of the year, let it be prepared and made available on the income and distribution side, in which way the funds will be spent, and can be specifically proposed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It's so vague, not just confusing, but, well, not using a harder word. I'll shut up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7032	All right. Thank you. I think, however, what I said was that the Commission accepted the amendment by Mrs Muminagić, meaning Article 4 is deleted, and in this form we express ourselves on the bill proposal, in this form, without Article 4. Please, I call upon the messengers to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7033	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7034	So, in addition to this misunderstanding that has been removed, I urge the MPs to state who is for the Budget Amendment in the way I said it? Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. The number of votes excludes the need to vote entityally. Of the 25 present, 22 voted in favour, which surely indicates that there is and the required entity majority, against it was 2. Therefore, the amendment and addition of the budget to the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2000, without a member of the 4th, was adopted. We move to point 3, and before 3rd, since today's Deputy Minister, Mr Zlatan Ištvanić has arrived, we will arrange an opportunity for Mr Ištvanić to take an oath. I ask Mr. Ištvanić to repeat after me the text of the solemn statement, in his own language, of course. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7035	I pledge to be conscious of my duties.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7036	Respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7037	Respect the BiH Constitution. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7038	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7039	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7040	Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7041	Protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7042	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7043	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7044	Thank you and congratulations. Moving to point 3. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Budget and international obligations for the year 2000 Report of the Finance Commission in writing, you also received and open the debate. [[APLAuz]] There's no record of a hearing. There were no amendments. This also excludes the need for someone to address the BiH Council of Ministers and I put forward a proposal for a law amending the Budget Act for a plea. Please, who's in? Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? He doesn't mind, he doesn't have any abstentions. Of the 24 present – 22 cardboards are for. Therefore, 2 were abstentions, but the proposal was given the necessary majority and necessary entity structure of the vote, and I find that the draft law amending the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations was adopted. I thank and move on to the fourth item of the agenda. 55 Ad.4. Proposal for a law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts You have received the text of the Commission. However, I have to notice here a rough material error in the sense that the last position of this report, the Commission believes that MP Deretić's amendments have a constitutional basis, but that entities should be allowed to regulate their laws on who has the right to conclude international contracts. This is a matter of meaning and spirit, as said on the Commission. It said that entities in accordance with the constitution have the right to enter into contracts, after giving consent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and that the entities will determine who is the signator of those contracts. Who is a signator, who is an authorised signator, not which entities will submit, if they had the right, it would far come out of what is in the Constitution, but that entities will determine who is the signator and who has the right to sign, and that is what is done, please. Mr. Dokić, the chairman of the committee... I'm taking this out for the record and possible...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7045	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission for International Relations has discussed the amendments to the proposed law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts concluded by BiH. There were two groups of amendments, two amendments each. Two amendments were proposed by Mrs Suada Muminagić and the Commission unanimously accepted both. I don't know if there's any need to read, you got them, I don't think so. However, the second group of amendments relating to the same member, i.e. the same members, Article 3 and Article 23 of the proposed law, was submitted by Miodrag Deretić. After a debate involving almost all the members of the Commission who were present, this was concluded with the adoption of this correction. The record was made, practically, during the session itself and Mr. Jadranko may not have precisely defined. Therefore, it is suggested by the Commission that entity laws determine who will be the signator of those international contracts for which entities acquire the right to sign them. What was the matter with this amendment, Mr. Miodrag Deretić, and the second stems from Amendment 1. It was one constitutional law, defined in Article 3, paragraph 2.d. The BiH Constitution, I read it to you, which states that any entity can also enter into agreements with states and international organisations with the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly can legally provide that some types of agreements do not require such consent. This was considered to be older than any law, and it was not necessary to transpose this section of the Constitution into this law, and the power to sign it has already been said to belong to the entity's legislation, that the entity determines whether it will be the president of an entity or president of the entity government, and what I know, that is the position of most members of the Commission for International Relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7046	This reflects the course of the debate, and that's mostly the way it's said. I'm opening the debate now. Mr. Banjac answered. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7047	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say three or four sentences, which is, the law cannot deny constitutional law and that is quite clear. So, by abandoning the matter that is constitutionally established under the law, the law is passed contrary to the Constitution. That's inadmissible. Then someone should intervene to comply with the Constitution and I don't think that's necessary. So I suggest that a compromise solution be found and that compromise solution is that the text of point 3.2.d is actually put as Article 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7048	So that what is in the Constitution be prescribed and be the position of the 3rd member of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7049	Respecting precisely the position of the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission, especially in the part where it is indeed indisputable that the constitution is the highest normative act in one country, that all laws must be in accordance with the constitution, especially in the light of the proposal for this law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, where Article 1 discusses arrangements for the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts concluded by BiH. Taking into account the provision of Article 3, point 2, indent 2, where it is possible for an entity, that each entity, too, may conclude agreements with States, I, however, believe that a provision should enter into this text, therefore, into this text of the bill, where this provision of the Constitution is indicated. So that entities can, in certain cases, conclude agreements, with the subsequent consent of the BiH Parliament. I would, in that context, and change this amendment that I have proposed, so I would ask you to be kind enough to follow how I read, because I assume you all have it in front of you. The amendment would go the next way. In Article 3, a new position of 3 should be added: entity agreements with states and international organisations, with the approval of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and certain types of agreement, as established by law, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on behalf of the Federation of BiH and the RS, are concluded by persons governed by entity laws, which are also governed by the way in which these agreements are implemented. And Amendment 2 would remain unchanged. I think that would be exactly one compromise solution, which would indeed be in line with this constitutional provision, and it would not be too far from the existing draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7050	Now I speak for myself, not on behalf of the Commission. I would ask my colleague Deretić to give up such a defined amendment, for the simple reason that, indeed, it is not directed that we define by BiH law who will do so on behalf of the entity, it should be done by entity law, but I would suggest that, as Article 3rd position, what my colleague Banjac has proposed, Article 3nd paragraph 2d is prescribed. from the Constitution of BiH. It really doesn't matter, let it stand out of the Constitution, it's a certain guarantee that there will be an open process in that area, and who will sign it to be regulated by entity law. I would pray to my colleague Deretić, in that sense, that he may be correcting his attitude toward what his fellow Banjac said. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7051	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that we now have one proposal from Mr. Deretić, the new proposal from the chairman of the Foreign Policy Commission and Mr. Banjac's proposal. I think in such situations there is one possibility, and that is, since we have a Constitution of BiH, I do not see what is the reason, which is an argument to quote parts of the Constitution in the laws. This is, by the way, not a practice, because according to a constitutional member, legal obligations and responsibilities of the relevant institutions are formulated, this is a very precise document that we are offered, given that there is a need for BiH and all those who are subject to international policy to build these relations. I, when we talked about this, we found, Mr. Dokić knows it well, a formulation that was extremely correct in relation to the amendment given by Mr. Deretić and I thought we concluded the debate. If, since Mr Dokić has stated that he is speaking for himself now, as an MP, and that he supports Mr Banjac, I understand him, but we as the Commission have brought a position. So, in the procedure of the Rules of Procedure, as a commission, we discussed one amendment and said what our position is. I do not understand you that we can speak at some point as chairman of the Commission or as a Commission, and then say after that, I am no longer speaking as a committee, but as an MP. I want to warn, simply, everything can be changed three times, but this is about you, Mr. Dokić, representing correctly, representing the views of our commission. Mr. Genjac gave the exact formulation of our position. There was no dispute about it, and I, as a participant of this commission's work, can say with attention that we have considered all these amendments and all the proposals and that in this context I think our Commission's position is the most correct in relation to these three new proposals we have now received. We have received a proposal for an amended, amended amendment by Mr Deretić, who has given up a new amendment, meaning he has given up the previous amendment. Isn't that right, Mr. Deretić? You've completed, you've given a new formulation of the amendment. You've given one amendment first, we've brought a position on that amendment. You stood up and gave a brand-new amendment, in which you gave up your earlier proposal. That's two lines. If we vote, we must vote either on your proposal first or on your second proposal. We can't both vote. The Commission did not consider your second proposal. She only considered the first amendment. She made her point, and that's what we came up with before Parliament. The only newspaper in the meantime is the appearance of Mr. Banjac's proposal, which is possible, he is making a new proposal, a new formulation, but for me it was a surprise that Mr. Dokić is giving up our formulation that was extremely benign and correct and it seems to me that we have concluded, and now he appears with a proposal that supports a proposal that is not the Commission's position. If we continue this debate, we will be in a position not to be able to decide on a kind of amendment that has been properly given. We had an amendment, we respected that amendment, we gave our position, as the Commission, and we should defend that position in this House. If there is a contrast between Mr. Banjac, let him go to the vote and that attitude, but don't change the decisions in the walk. I suggest a vote, a statement on the position that the commission had. If Mr. Deretić withdraws his amendment and gives a new one, then it's a new situation. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7052	We'll do as the Rules of Procedure says. We cannot do otherwise, and that means what the Commission has accepted, i.e. Amendments Mrs. Muminagić, they become an integral part of the proposal and that is the basis. This proposal will be made known after a statement on the amendments submitted and not accepted by the Commission. Mr Deretić has submitted an amendment that the Commission has not accepted. He modified it, somewhat, and now we're going to make a statement about it. Mr. Banjac has also submitted an amendment, which regulates the same question, which to some extent has a different content. We'll make a statement about him, too. There is a possibility for one of these amendments to be accepted or not to accept any amendments, after which, when the issue of these amendments is resolved, we declare ourselves on the proposal. There are no other options. Therefore, the matter is quite clear. The Rules of Procedure say, if we declare amendments, if there are more amendments that regulate one question, we should first declare an amendment that makes major changes. Here, approximately, are the same measures of change. Perhaps Mr. Deretić's request is a little higher because he even goes and prescribes who will sign the laws in entities, suggests. Perhaps it is a little bigger intervention of Mr. Deretić, and by this principle I will choose to put first the amendment of Mr. Deretić, the corrected amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7053	I've been correcting my amendment proposal or I can, here, withdraw it and join Mr. Banjac's proposal, but I think that mine is, in fact, the most correct proposal, which is in the interest of both entities. [[You don't hear enough from the scene.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7054	Here, Mr. Deretić, it is not disputed whether the amendment is in favour of the entity of one, the other, both, etc. but the question is whether something that is explicit in the Constitution has the need to state in the law or entities can, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, regulate that matter from its jurisdiction, that is the question that is being asked, that is, and some believe that it should not be in the law at all, but consider it also, now, please, let everyone explain themselves by their own understanding and understanding. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7055	There's one way that's not acceptable to me, and I want to intervene. The fact that a special law applies to a particular area, basic education is subject to the Fundamental Education Act, not the Constitution. Therefore, there is a strong need for all the laws to be applied, as a special law applies, and in this case it is a special one. Therefore, there is a need to regulate this. Don't say there's no need. The other thing is whether you want it or not. That's your thing. I'm not getting into that. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7056	Describing the situation, I say that it is controversial that one group thinks it does not need explicits in the law, some believe it should, that's the difference. I didn't say I should or shouldn't. I'll plead when I vote. Mr. Deretić, if there are no essentials... we'll put the amendments on and we'll sort it out, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7057	To vote on my amended amendment. [[speaks from the place and you can't hear it.]] So I'd like to ask you if I need to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7058	Here, read it and then we'll get to the bottom of it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7059	Because it is still... that is adopted under the constitutional provision and there is no dilemma at all, with the fact that the Commission considers my amendments to have a constitutional basis. That's absolutely clear. In Article 3, a new position should be added, which reads: "the entity agreements with states and international organisations, with the approval of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and certain types of agreements established by law, adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on behalf of the Federation of BiH and RS, end persons governed by entity laws, which regulate the way such agreements are implemented," and Amendment 2 remains. I think that's final, extremely correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7060	Thank you, you've heard the amendment, I'm putting on a plea. I ask the MPs to declare who is to accept Mr. Deretić's amendment, which you have just heard. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you, Drained? We're going after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 24 present, 13 voted yes. So he got most of the people present. The Federation of BiH had 8 for, or from the Federation of BiH was 5 for, the RS was enough for. The Federation of BiH does not need one-third and the amendment is going to be agreed. Therefore, after agreeing on the amendment, we will also vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7061	Let's get past this situation. I really realized that Mr. Deretić withdrew his amendment in favour of what Mr. Banjac suggested. 60 Therefore, that Article 3, point 2.d, should be rewritten as a third position. from the Constitution of BiH and come on, have the understanding so much, not now entering whether or not to be copied, but it is the Constitution and to solve this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7062	My colleagues and colleagues, I really don't understand what the proposed amendment reflects on the Constitution, so I'd like to ask someone to explain to me if they will. Really, if he wants to explain to me what's the opposite, which is why the proposed amendment is contrary to the Constitution. This is a really interesting situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7063	Okay, thank you. I have a business obligation to put Mr. Banjac, his amendment on the plea and, please, there is the possibility that Mr. Banjac's proposal could be adopted, in which case, Mr. Deretić has the opportunity to withdraw his amendment and then join further statements. So these are possibilities, keep in mind, and I have a business obligation to put Mr. Banjac's amendment on the line. Mr Banjac suggested that Article 3(2)d be prescribed by the Constitution as decidently as indicated and to be the position of the 3rd member of this law. That's Mr. Banjac's suggestion. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it, please? Abstained? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 25 present for 19 — abstentions 5. From Federation of BiH 11 – from RS 9, therefore, the amendment was given both a semi-half- and entity-needed majority and adopted. Therefore, we approach a statement on the proposal for a law containing two amendments adopted. I was so convinced Mr. Deretić would withdraw the amendment that I didn't even ask him. So, we approach the statement on the Bill proposal, which contains the amendments adopted by the Commission, submitted by Mrs Muminagić, and the amendment of Mr Banjac, which we have accepted here. Who's in favor of such a bill? Who's against it? Abstained? Of the 25 docks, 23 voted for – 2 abstentions. 23 also contains an entity third of both entities. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the conclusion of international contracts was adopted. We're moving to agenda five. 61 Ad. 5. The proposal for a law on freedom of access to information in BiH, whose proposings – MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Lozančić, the committee responsible discussed the bill and you received a report from the Commission. Mr Spahić, I recommend that you keep the energy for point 7 at which you have at least 20 minutes of opportunity to talk about the obligation. Please, a little attention, a little concentration, we're almost there. The Commission's report on the Freedom of Information Bill you received. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the promoter, is there any need here, Mr. Lozančić reporting? Do you have a need? Okay, thank you. There were no amendments, there were no discussions, therefore, of the bill in the form in which the proposal was handed to MPs, and I ask the MPs, who is for the Proposal for a Law on Freedom of Access to Information? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's being held back? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Thank you. Of the 25 present – 21 voted in favour – abstentions were 2. From Federation of BiH 13 for, from RS 7 for. Therefore, the proposal has received the required majority and the required number of votes per entity and I realize it has been adopted. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. The draft basic law on the Ombudsman of BiH is proposed by MP Edhem Bičakčić ja inform you that Mr Bičakčić announced the absence of this session due to commitments in Mostar that were previously taken over, and that on his behalf he asked the legal expert, Mrs Seada Paravlić, that on behalf of the promoter that the necessary information and the necessary questions were answered. Here is also the Ombudsman for BiH, Mr. Frank Orton, who will also, at a certain point, take the floor, and his written exposure you received. It's, of course, about the draft, about the first reading. According to the Rules of Procedure, the first reading contains talks on constitutional grounds, the needs of law-making and the principles of law. The debate ends with a vote. Whether to switch to another reading, i.e. Is the draft law the basis for making a proposal? Keep that in mind, please, and I'm opening a debate. It might be a good idea for Mrs. Paravlić to say a few words on behalf of the promoter. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7064	Dear President, gentlemen of the Parliament, let me briefly remind you that Mr. Bičakčić referred this bill to the parliamentary procedure, in English, Croatian, Serbian and Bosnian languages, on 22 April, precisely because of its importance, and then in July he directed the order to put it into the agenda of the session as soon as possible. The real reasons for adopting this law are contained in the fact that the proposing believes that the adoption of this law will be of great importance to BiH and its citizens. By adopting this law, BiH will include this office, the Ombudsman's office in its internal legal system, which is more important, it would mean that BiH is willing to continue strengthening the rule of law and will commit itself to respecting the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people living in its territory. The second reason is contained in the fact, i.e. the content of Article 14, Annex 6. The Dayton Agreement. The provision states that five years after the agreement came into force, so in our case on 15 December this year, responsibility for continuing the work of the Ombudsman for BiH will be transferred from party signatories to BiH institutions. So, the aim of this bill is to ensure the legal framework for the functioning of the BiH-level Ombudsman institution, under the responsibility of BiH, after 15 December, and the Third reason we should not in any way ignore is the fact that the Peace Implementation Council on several occasions, and also at the Brussels Conference, in the Declaration, as a necessary condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, has included the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH, by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the end of September 2000, because the big problem will occur on December 15th, when we do not, eventually, have this framework. I hope it doesn't come to that. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 2.1. The BiH Constitution, under which BiH and entities will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to this end there will be a commission for human rights, as provided for by Annex 6. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. Then, in Article 4.4a. The BiH Constitution, under which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will be responsible for making the laws necessary for implementing the BiH presidency's decisions or for carrying out the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly under this constitution. The third subparagraph is Article 14. Anexa 6. I've already quoted. As you know, at its June 22nd session, the Constitutional Commission confirmed today that there is a legal basis, a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. The principles on which this law is based are briefly next. At the time when the Dayton Agreement was reached, and Annex 6, you know that there were no ombudsmen in the second entity, or in the RS, but only the Ombudsman in the Federation of BiH, however, was not treated with aneks 6.. danas we have a situation that we have an ombudsman institution on three new ones, and also a situation that this relationship between them is not at all arranged. The intention of this law is for the ombudsman of BiH to be a central institution of ombudsman and co-ordinated. 63 It is also imagined that the role of the Ombudsman is played by three people. In Article 5, as you can see, the ombudsman's responsibilities are precisely stated, these are, therefore, cases where we have an object relating to any institution, body of government or institution of BiH, when the subject is also referred to by the institution, body of authority or institution of entity and institution of government, body of government, institution of BiH, and at the same time refers to the institutions, authorities or institutions of both entities. In Article 5(2), Article 5 provides for the possibility that BiH's Ombudsman can also work on cases relating to the institution, the authority or the service of any entity, whenever it considers the outcome to be of particular importance for the effective enjoyment of individual rights and freedoms in BiH as a whole. The reason for this is that the proposer believes it is necessary at this point to ensure harmonised practice throughout BiH. Also, to convey the experience of the Ombudsman to BiH and their knowledge of the ombudsmans in entities. The assumption is that this institution will be used more over a period of time during the transitional ombudsman, and less and less as time moves along and as we get used to the ombudsman institution. It is also foreseen in Articles 6 and 14 that BiH's Ombudsman present certain cases before the highest judicial authorities in charge of human rights violations. At this point, it is the House of Human Rights and in some cases the Constitutional Court of BiH. In addition, I have already mentioned that according to Annex 6 and the rules of the Ombudsman procedure, what is relevant here, the fact that there will also be a foreigner in the transitional period of three years, according to this legal framework, who will also be from no country bordering BiH. The proposal is for the current member of the 45th, which must be acknowledged to be quite vague, to be replaced by a member, i.e. a provision on entry into force and to read "this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication, from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH". I hope this is enough for an introduction, and if it's necessary to give answers, I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7065	Thank you, I give my word to Mr. Franko orton, the Ombudsman for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7066	Mr. President, esteemed members of the House. It's a great honor to be able to speak to you for the first time. I am very grateful that I have been given the opportunity to share with you my opinion and concerns about the law that will regulate my efforts and efforts by my institution in promoting the rule of law and protecting human rights in the coming years. I believe it is clear to you that the decision you will make today is of paramount importance to my institution and the possibility of this institution being in the service of the ordinary people of this country, as well as in the service of you, as their elected representatives. My opinion, as a Swedish judge and Ombudsman over a period of six years, with a certain European and, otherwise, international experience in this area, is therefore that this draft is proposed by the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe, which will provide this country with a law, which is in line with those already in place in about a hundred other countries, in which these rights have already been established by the democratic 64 institutions. It is true that there is nothing that cannot be improved, but the text presented is worth your sincere support, with the possible improvements of the device in light of the experience gained from the application of the existing one, and that at this stage does not endanger the continued functioning of the institution, based on nothing other than a very good domestic law adopted by the competent domestic parliament. It might be worth reminding that it is not easy to improve a law like this without a good and thorough knowledge of the experience of the ombudsman concept, something that is always missing in countries where such an institution has just been established or has only been functioning for a few years. I am convinced that the adoption of this law, at this point, would be fuelled by all European countries who would be happy to accept BiH in the family of European countries. Furthermore, such a step in promoting the rule of law and protecting human rights closely monitors the so-called “rights”. The market. Foreign investors will continue to hesitate to include themselves and their money in countries where the breach of the contract is not timely and effectively sanctioned and in which conditions cannot be reasonably assessed as an atmosphere of respect for human rights. I therefore sincerely hope that you, the esteemed members of the House, will today adopt or promote the adoption of this law and that you will do so without any significant changes. Thank you very much. Excuse me, just to let you know that this statement Mr. Orton has now made available in English as well as in all three local languages, so it will be distributed later.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7067	Thank you. It has been distributed, MPs have received the text of a statement in writing. Thank you. Mr Kadić came forward for the debate and let Mr Spahić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7068	I thank you, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I want to say what Mrs. Paravlić has already said, and that is that the Constitutional Commission has been considering this draft law and has concluded that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Secondly, as a representative in this House, I would like to welcome the adoption of this law and to express my regret that today we have failed to turn it out of the form of the draft into a proposal, namely to complete it in accordance with the accelerated procedure, given the need to protect human rights, or to improve the protection of human rights in BiH, and, on the other hand, to respond to the obligations set before us by both the Dayton Agreement and the accession to the Council of Europe. However, what may not be a particular thing to like, my reaction to Article 8 of this Law, which says that the Ombudsman institution will make up three people. Namely, the Constitution of BiH is indeed a constitution that is one complex constitutional category, and in this respect I would like to point out the next problem. In fact, in my own time, when I had contact with the possibility that I, as an MP, would propose this law, I must say that I could not agree with those who, on behalf of the Venice Commission, discussed a possible proposal at this point. Namely, I have suggested that the Ombudsman institution be either one or four persons, because it seems to me that this insistence on three members, or three persons, as an institution of 65 ombudsman in BiH, is irrevocably a reminder of an ethnic and purely ethnic approach in this important point, which is explicitly stated at the point of view of the protection of fundamental human rights of legal and physical persons. In this context, and given the fact that we should improve the protection of human rights beyond and beyond, and crossing ethnic borders, as even in this Article 8, it is explicitly said, I felt that the three ombudsmans' own formulation could inexplicably remind us of the domination of the ethnic principle regarding the protection of individual human rights in BiH, and in this respect I thought that we should take a step forward in this context, proposing another solution. I must also say, in this context, that I am particularly disappointed with the opinion of the competent minister, Mr Gligorić, who, in his opinion and letter addressed here, asks that the institution of the Ombudsman, although it is not written in the original text of the basic law, is defined as an institution of ethnic character, with each of the three Ombudsmans being a representative, or member of one of the constituent people in BiH. What I warned about in the talks with the Venice Commission happened here in a letter from the Ministers of the Council of BiH, and in this regard, it seems to me that, by accepting the concept of three ombudsmans, defined even by some ethnic criteria, would be some sort of cementing of ethnic individual rights, which I think we should abandon, both human rights and fundamental freedoms, we would finally have to individually observe and, in this context, offer the possibility of a number of ombudsmans in this law, i.e. in Article 8. That's my suggestion, since it's about the bill. This is my suggestion to the Proposer, that once again with the Venice Commission, there is a proposal for a solution that might not indicate that individual ethnic rights are at stake here, but possibly that the Ombudsmans will protect human rights of legal and physical persons, as it appears here in Article 1. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7069	Mr. Spahić. Is it a replica? Mr. Spahić, be nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7070	I will, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7071	Here you can point to the wrong quote in the discussion and you can ask for an explanation of something the MP said in the discussion, the two of us can do within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7072	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, my remarks are addressed to Mr Kadić's discussion, when it comes to overcoming national membership, regarding the reaction to a statement, or the text of Mr Gligorić, where he sought the people's membership. Mr. Kadić, I will only mention 66 that your interpretation violates one basic human right, belonging to one ethnic group. Since BiH is a state of three constituent nations, these three constituent nations have the right to be represented at all levels, BiH institutions. Thus, referring to this, you are violating the fundamental human rights of membership of ethnic groups and the right of these ethnic groups to be represented at the level of the laws and institutions of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7073	Thank you. This is about a disagreement with the discussion, and that's a discussion for the discussion. The intervention, in terms of over-receiving the word, can only ask two questions, or ask for a correction of the quote, or seek an explanation of something the MP said, so it is not clear. Please take care of it. Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7074	I didn't mention anyone's name, Mrs. Perkanović mentioned mine, so I have to react. I mean, I think some people hear what's echoing, not what I said. I made a very precise point that it seemed to me that in the proposal for the Ombudsman law, it was meant to go towards a principle that would not remind the ethnic structure of the Ombudsman, which is overwhelmingly seen from the fact that it was proposed to be three ombudsmans for BiH, as well as the fact that the minister at the BiH Council of Ministers proposes that they have a purely ethnic character. The possibility of having one Ombudsman, with deputies, or having four ombudsmen would indicate something else, a broader interpretation of fundamental human rights and the protection of individual rights and freedoms of BiH citizens, and it does not deny the nationality of the Ombudsman to be elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7075	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7076	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Orton, I would like to say that I believe that this is probably the most significant law, if it succeeds in passing the procedure in our parliament, which we adopt and I believe will come, however, to one agreement and guarantee of this House that this fundamental law to change relations in BiH, but indeed fundamental changes in terms of the formation of the rule of law and the protection of human rights in the coming years, is one law that we can all rely on, every citizen of BiH, every citizen, and that is the first thing I want to say about the draft of this law. Another thing I would like to say in the context of the debate on the draft of this law is that the experience we have had so far with the Ombudsmans in BiH, a completely positive experience, and that this is the basis of an experience of BiH citizens with this institution that I want to insist on because I believe it has been an opportunity for the citizens of BiH in recent years to verify the importance and significance of this institution. The third thing I'm trying to say is that the reputation and choice of persons who assume responsible functions are based on the law that we adopt. It is, in fact, the 67th beginning of the rule of law, which really should mean to us not only that we are a country that provides full guarantees, but we are also a country that makes laws, which is able to sanction, within one law, what the standards of the world and the standards of each man are individually not and there is, in fact, this globalisation, in some way and the rights and legal systems, being identified with the interests of every man and therefore, the institution is important. It is not important because it is important only for the market, important for the injured right of a man, some family, some community, it is important for it to equalise, essentially, people in Europe, especially, but also in the world as a whole, with the affirmation of an institution in equal law. This is what is, in fact, the actual application of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention. Why did I want to insist on these three things? Because immediately after this debate, we will fall into one trap, unless we accept the fact that any discussion on economy, on social rights, on ethnic rights, etc., on religious rights, on full rights, completely undermines any meaning of this discussion, if we do not give essential support to this law, because every discussion must start from the fact that the only basic task of this assembly is to adopt laws on the good of people, to the benefit of every citizen. Now I'd like to say something about the amendments that I've had a chance to read, since there's a general debate, I wouldn't want to get involved later, so I don't have to cause any problems. First, I've been informed that there are six amendments to Mr. Mirko Banjac, MPs, and I would like to say the following on this occasion. I believe that the law is in the draft, and that there has been an explanation given by the promoter, quite a good basis for putting this text in further procedure to the proposal and giving it assurances that we will not put any obstacle in amendments that would make this debate impossible. Mr Kadić said: “In the context of Amendment 4, in Article 8, item 1, it should read, Mr Banjac repeats, in fact, the position that Mr Gligorić expressed as minister at the Council of Ministers of BiH. He defines from the draft law the national position of Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat, who should make up the institution, these three ombudsmen. I think that I, who have proposed the Law on the Protection of Minorities in BiH, can also say that if we were to question in this way what I was talking about, about a law that must be the same for all, I could say with full law, and that you would take it well, not to accept it with some resistance, but to receive as well as, let's say, the thinking and the amendments we received from Mr. Banjac or the proposal, in principle, Mr. Gligorić. I could say, let's say, that my amendment, in that case, could be like a countermand, so we don't question it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7077	Mr. Spahić, just one moment, please. Article 95, point 1, the debate in the House will begin with the first reading, this is what concerns the necessity and principles on which the bill is based, according to the Commission's report. The debate on articles will begin if the House decides to do so, i.e. if it's declared. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7078	Since I, in principle, fully agree with the draft law if a debate on national structure is opened, I also run for one amendment concerning Rom, Jevrej and Vlah.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7079	Thank you. Next, Mr. Deretić applied, and let Mrs. Perkanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7080	So when it comes to the draft law on the Ombudsman of BiH, then I must say, here, from my personal experience, since, indeed, in my practice I have, not to say daily, contacts with the ombudsman's offices and I can say with many examples that, unfortunately, I expected much more from this institution than she has given so far. Why do I say that? It turns out that these offices are terribly overcrowded, procedures go on for a tremendously long time, on the one hand, but that does not normally mean that Annex 6 should not be respected. The Dayton Agreement, therefore, is the part that speaks of human firsts and talks about the Commission on human rights consisting of councils and ombudsmans, it is two institutions, the Human Rights Council and the Ombudsman. Unfortunately, here we are now hearing, and we have an opportunity, in fact, we have already had the opportunity to hear certain thoughts about the structure of the Ombudsman, as if deliberately and consciously want to forget some objective facts and circumstances which are dominant and which will be dominant for a long, long time, unfortunately, and that is, in fact, exactly what happened in '92. years in these areas and, unfortunately, I have one more thing to say, obstructions on all sides, therefore, when it comes to certain institutions operating in the territory under the control of one, the other and the third constituent people, therefore, I am talking about institutions. Most of the time, they're doing it so they're obstructing everything that can be obstructed. In this context, the proposal, and I also added, I also handed over an amendment relating to Article 8 where I was far more precise, precisely in view of what I am now talking about, that the ombudsman institutions consist of three persons, but not only of the order of the Bosniak and Croatian people, but of the order of the Serb people, but of being a representative from the RS. So in that context will be my amendment to this draft law. I'll say one more thing when I talk about these terrible obstructions. Obstructions are most pronounced in front of avoidance committees and displaced persons, in front of regular courts, here I think, therefore, courts that are largely addressing individual citizens' proposals, where temporary measures are required to prevent the return of other people's property. So this is particularly expressed in the courts of the Federation of BiH, there is one thing in the RS, it's just done in a different way, and that's why I'm saying that we can't do it overnight, you know, just to satisfy one requirement, to pass one legal regulation, with a reason that we'll be more quickly admitted to the Council of Europe, and simply glare and not having in mind the objective circumstances and objective state in which we are. In that context, I was also present as a member of the commission today, where Mr. Orton was, I think, too, that's what his last name, who has a terrible experience, comes from a country where this institution is first-time and set up, and it's certainly a respectable man. But we can't go with our throats into strawberries. In fact, on that 69 commission today, I heard for the first time, yes, we are limited in time, we came to teat over time, but I'm not going to do that at all costs, here, and I'm going to finish it, that at all costs, because today was a proposal, to immediately go with the proposal here before the Representative's Council, I think it's a matter that needs to be studied well, and, ultimately, given that we're limited in time, there's the chairman, so if necessary, we still have time to choose, we can find and discuss this and normally bring this law to the end. But, I say, not at all costs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7081	Thank you. Mrs. Perkanović, and let Mr. Baković prepare himself. I'm sorry, Mrs. Perkanović. The MPs are present either in the hall or they might have gone for coffee. Be prepared to work late tonight, please and wear out this agenda. Therefore, it is possible for us to rest a little, to refresh ourselves, but keep in mind the need and our intention to exhaust this agenda and to have a sufficient number of MPs for voting purposes, to have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7082	This is beyond my discussion. I must admit that this is a very unserious set, and if this is how the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is going to continue to work, this points to the seriousness of how many gentlemen stand for this same BiH, and this is a kind of obstruction, a kind of nerada. I don't agree that someone can sit in the halls while the assembly is going on, or go, I don't know which way to go. I am not for us to suffer, who are here to do something, to finish this assembly, to put up with those who act so unseriously, and here at the pay phone many of them swear in BiH and the seriousness of the work and criticise others for their work, i.e. they do not like it. If you'll allow me to discuss this, there's no quorum anymore, I'd be discussing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7083	Please, we can, the debate can be conducted without the condition that the quorum is present, to declare the quorum is required. However, if we want to be consistent, at this point we can take a brief break, freshen up and have the MPs take their seats and continue the debate with the quorum. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7084	Mr. Genjac, by respecting people who live here more than 500 kilometers and who are supposed to travel home tonight, I don't think it's right to treat these people that way. There must be respect for every MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7085	We can invite MPs, we can rest for five to ten minutes, have coffee, five or ten minutes won't change anything in the departure of the MPs. Here, at this point we have another MP. They have people and physiological needs. 70 now we have a quorum. Go on, please. Suada's here. She's 22. We've got a quorum, keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7086	Ladies and gentlemen, by respecting the Dayton Agreement and by respecting the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman, I advocate that the law be passed, but I advocate that this law be satisfactory and be a guarantee of respect for human rights in BiH's premises. I do not agree that the law can already fundamentally violate basic human rights in BiH. There are some regulations here that, at the very first moment, not only do they do, but they indicate that the law violates human rights. The example works, article 9, says three ombudsmans will appoint the House of Representatives to the two-thirds majority of each home and on the basis of a joint proposal from the BiH presidency. Gentlemen, BiH is a state of two equal entities, so it is said, but basically, within the House of Representatives, an unequal relationship, because RS is represented 1 to 2 in relation to the Federation of BiH. 14 MPs from RS and 28 MPs from the Federation of BiH. There's already an unequal relationship. Using the concept of a two-thirds majority in the beginning, we violated the right of that one-third RS to exercise any right. So there are already two-thirds that are secured. Please, in the context of that, I suggest that these two-thirds majority refer to the entity two-thirds majority. This also applies to Article 12 when it comes to resolving members of the Ombudsman and I propose that the same formula be applied to that point 12, in order to get a law that will guarantee, truly guarantee, rather than merely declaring human rights, I ask that this law be passed so as to already protect and prevent any possibility of human rights violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7087	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very glad this one, so to speak, has come to the agenda. I had experience and worked with the ombudsmen and those who represented the Bošnjak, those ombudsmen who represented the Hrvat, Srbin, too. My experience on this is, I can say, positive and I think that the ombudsmen have done a lot of positive and good in BiH, but also, I would notice that they have often been lovers-nolens in the service of a particular policy, and that they have often been able to bend into it without measure and level of things. I have often said that the return of exiles, return of apartments, settlement on the premises at the same time, at the premises of the Federation of BiH, as well as BiH. But it was mostly targeted at certain spaces and what was wrong, I don't know if they could or couldn't stop those trends or change them, but in fact, that's how it was. I don't think it's too late to do anything about it today. As far as I know, Croatian exiles in an unwanted number are returning to the premises of any RS, there was a Federation, where, in the majority sense, in the dominant sense Bosniak rule and I think these things should be corrected and that these ombudsmen should show their power and their initiative. But I say and repeat, I underline again, all in all, the ombudsman mission was positive, not only was it but it was. But what made me want to go out and say something now. Already in some reflections on the action and distortion of rights and legal images on BiH's premises, some moments are being observed. It seems to me that there is a tendency, some attitude, in my opinion, to borrow that attitude, that certain individual civil rights are always apostrophe. I think that should be represented, but 71 are always marginalized by constitutional, ethnic, national rights or always brought into some other plan. I think it's harmful. Without ethnic rights, without national rights, in an explicit sense, apostrophysed sense, there are no human rights to the full, because if one nation loses constitutional rights, ethnic rights, national rights, and if all of this is involved in some called civil rights, it is already well lost, because ethnic rights and human rights are interlinked and permeated. One nation cannot exercise its individual or human rights unless there are ethnic and constitutional rights. Therefore, I do not know why we are always forced to do so and that we must fight it forever. I know that the peoples of BiH, three basic, so to speak, elemental peoples, if they do not have their special rights in a political sense, in a cultural sense, religious sense, etc., their human, individual rights are abstraction. There are no rights, human rights, in itself, but they exist as national, as ethnic rights, and I don't know why they always try to get through those rights as such, or derrogate themselves or put themselves into some other plan. Because what's the state? It's not a state of fiction, it's not a state of parody of something, it's not some syntagm for the subject of the Gentiles to process it, it's a state's moral universe. It's the highest manifestation of the world's human spirit. So why are we trying to have a country? In order to have one framework, so we can say, make everything come true, and the people or the nations that have no state, they simply have nothing. They have no human or individual or national rights. So, I say, when this law is being considered, and this law is nothing more than a legal substance, then this must be taken into account, because we are not solving the BiH issue only today and tomorrow, but it must be resolved today and here BiH through the centuries. Because if they hit the foundation now, then through the centuries something will be certain. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7088	This juice and this coffee is from me, you know, Rasim. Next up is Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7089	Here, you see how many Srbin are at risk, I can't even get juice from the chairman and that's human rights. Please, I'd like to say just a few things, wait, you're not meant to. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I want to say something that is repeated from the session to the session and deliberately rescinds itself as if nothing was happening. A number of gentlemen feast here, sometimes insult us and say something, and then go whenever they want, come back whenever they want, and some don't come almost ever, and I know those who don't come, and I write it very carefully, to see how long the international institutions, who say they help us, criticize those who sit and suggest, and maybe sometimes wrong, but suggest, so they participate, and those who don't come, mostly they praise how they have international support, and they never come, so I wonder if it's better to come or not to come. Looks like it's better not to come. Look, gentlemen, I can't afford to be an icaban because I'm not. I want to participate, to comment with you together, to agree, to exchange arguments, and to contribute in this way, if necessary, and obviously to the extent to which it is necessary. 72 When it comes to the law, the first thing that bothers me, is that we break all the languages by saying this word. Don't we know how to find a word that would be Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak or, I don't know, but to be our word?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7090	Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7091	Here, you see, Bosnian, and I will try, believe me, that tonight, when I see people struggling to say ombudsman, then ombudsman, well, well, well, I see, let me help people break that language or I don't know what it is. I would truly like, without any exaggeration, to start avoiding aliens, and to try to find words that we understand better. You leave that to yourself. When it comes to concrete law. I would like to suggest to the promoter that he consider that we have entity laws on the Ombudsman, therefore, that we have institutions at entity level and that we respect it. Secondly, I would also like to make sure that in this law, the exact jurisdiction of the ombudsman in entities does not interfere entirely with the ombudsman's responsibilities, because there is no need for that. Secondly, I would also like, therefore, to take into account those powers already given to entity laws to entity ombudsmen, but I also suggest something else. To regulate the issues of this law that will be resolved jointly at BiH level as a whole, but so that the existing three people who will be ombudsmans, whose election should respect the principle of parity, I honestly think so, no matter what others think. This is not the time, if we want to build trust and co-existence, which, in my opinion, can be built only through consensus, parity and reconciliation, agreement, which is why I think it is, and not because of Rom, as my dear colleague or someone else says, although I have never had anything against Rom or any other people and I absolutely accept that it is respected, but one body should be formed at BiH level to address these issues of common interest, it would be the College of the Ombudsman, which would make up three Ombudsmans and two entities, and they would solve these issues. Why, gentlemen? Because we're a specific state community and it needs everyone to understand who's really trying to help us. This particularity of ours stems from our constitutional structure, resulting from our immediate past, which is what it is, and I would pray that we do not now perhaps create some kind of overstep that can, with our good intentions, fail. I would like those steps towards co-existence to go according to confidence, not by creating a new mistrust, but by creating a part by part of the trust that will be multiplied if Bog gives in these places. So, I would like to share competences, a decadent set-up and what would be done at BiH level, and that part of the job would be dealt with by a college of ombudsmans that would make up 3+2. Furthermore, this organ, as I think it is, should make its decisions by consensus, or, in the worst case, by two-thirds of the majority, because there are reasons for each other in this composition. That's it. 73 Second, there's one problem. He's not random in this law, at least I think, because I believe that those who made this law, I believe in their legal education, I appreciate it, but they made one serious constitutional mistake, which is not the guy that Honored colleague Perkanović said. Three ombudsmen will be appointed to the two-thirds majority of each home. My dear gentlemen and esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you know that there are only two issues in the Constitution that are resolved by a two-thirds majority, and all other decisions are known how they are made. These two cases in the Constitution are amendments to the Constitution and to the Rules of Procedure, so we found a consensus not to be a two-thirds majority, so I'm not sure, dear friends who have done this law that they have accidentally wronged the constitutional norm in Article 9(1), and precisely for the protection of human rights, for the protection of entity rights, I suggest that not only consider this Article 9 but what I was saying in principle, and what is contained, not to mention amendments. The amendments aren't. This is not the phase of the amendment, it's the stage of the first reading. When the amendment comes, I am willing and willing to discuss every amendment, why I propose it, where it is based on the proposal and why it is an improvement, and of course I am willing to change my mind on the basis of the arguments, I am absolutely ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7092	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to sincerely welcome Mr. Franko orton, who replaced Mrs. Greta Haver, unfortunately I wasn't at the last session, and I don't know if we followed Mrs. Haver the way she deserved it, but, here, now we only have Mr. Orton who will certainly help us work on this important law. I don't want to be long-reaching, in fact, at all to see how important it is at this point in the world of respect for human rights and respect for the law, as well as pluralism, because these are the three basic principles on which all the civilized countries of Western Europe rest, which are evident and functioning and self-sustainable, therefore, have those attributes that we want to achieve soon. What is the importance of respecting human rights and especially the institution of the Ombudsman is the fact that last September, and here, colleague Dokić will surely confirm what I am about to say, perhaps the closest we were to the Council of Europe, but according to the report by our human rights rapporteur, Mrs Gedelbrum, who filed a report in Ohrid and who gave us a negative assessment on this issue, because we did not have in one entity such an institution, we were moved again and away from the admission to the Council of Europe, and I think we all care about that. As far as I'm concerned, this law, which I support from my heart, I also express regret that today is not in the form of a law here, in fact, that law replaces Annex 6. So in Annex 6, this is all in writing, and he's now being translated into a Venice agreement into an ombudsman law, and he's changing one very important thing, so the first ombudsman has appointed us an international community, if we pass the law, then our Parliament will appoint our ombudsmans, and I guess according to the criteria that one person must have, and no matter what part of our country lives on. Therefore, it will likely be a 3 - 4 honorable man who will represent human rights and be what this law expects of them. 74 I would also like to say that it would not be a bad idea not to say in our vocabulary that three people live here, but to say that at least three people live here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7093	Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, of course, the time has passed and I would not bother you, but I am not sure if we will have the opportunity to meet again in this way, and I personally am not ready to agree to certain irregularities of these today's discussions on this extremely significant law, whose adoption, of course, I support and whose importance I greatly appreciate. In fact, since there's been a lot of talk about human rights and in these conversations, I'm afraid that different definitions and human rights have been mixed and something that should be basic, namely defining the content of this law, let me just remind you, in the best of all, without wanting to plow with any of my fellow MPs, really, it's not the time, we're tired. The reason or motive for this exit is our desire and willingness that we have shown countless times here to enter these European institutional frameworks, to be in European integrations. And if that's what we want, please, then it would be our turn to, as MPs, not agree to this kind of uncertainty in the use of this category of human rights. To know that Europe assumes three levels and that, in that sense, I am actually saying that we are also determined according to the content of this law. The confessions, which are very significant for this law, are the first recognition of a man as a person, as a person, a person who does not convey any of his rights to anyone. I, like Hilmo Neimarlija, have the right, by European standards, to be Hilmo Neimarlija and therefore, by respecting the laws, I expect recognition wherever I am in BiH, for example. The right that I don't pass on to anyone is my personal, personal right and it's a fundamental human right, only after that comes the civil right that I, as a citizen and a citizen of BiH, want to have and, of course, my ethnic right as a Bošnjak goes. Of course, these are dynamic categories. We all know very much our situation which requires great sensitivity in the mutual integration of these rights and their mutual determination and, of course, I am aware, I am saying this because there is no right to end up being realised at the expense of the other two rights or cannot be realised at the expense of the third. I think it's some kind of concern that has been shown in these different discussions, because I just wanted to remind you, the way of modern Europe that we all want, here, we have declared ourselves to be for these European integrations. What determines today's Europe was not the way to gain one freedom or one right, but it was the way to fight different rights, to fight different freedoms, and freedoms were once, in fact, understood in a way of privilege, in a way of greater rights in relation to one another. There's a fight here that needs to be fought fairly, that we're all going to lead and we're going to win it, or, I hope, those after us who will come, in the sense of ensuring those rights in their integrity. Celebrity and personal, in this elemental sense, and civil and collective and group that are, above all, defined as national rights. So, not one right at the expense of the rest and in terms of dynamic, to say the words, given our circumstances, I would plead and call upon the MPs to respect that this law and the institution of the Ombudsman should help every citizen of BiH, first of all as a person, feel safe, or, as a person, to be protected and now comes our national law in one sense which should, I think, be determined, feel free, secure, that it is recognised, regardless of whether it is Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat. Or to exclude either Roma or Finac or Kinez who is a BiH citizen, to rule out the possibility of him being threatened as a person because he is a Srbin, because he is 75 Hrvat, because he is Bošnjak, because the Rom and the essence is that I am also saying this because I do not see so much difference in our approach to the important content of this law, as much as in the way we set ourselves according to the character of the rights and freedoms that this law, in my view, should regulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7094	I don't have any charges to argue with. I think this discussion, in a way, is coming at the right time and we can close the debate. We should now approach the statement, i.e. in terms of how the Permanent Rules of Procedure foresees, that we should make clear by voting on whether this draft can go to the second reading stage, or whether it can be the basis for making the proposal, of course, given everything that has been stated during the debate, and, as usually happens, everything that has been presented during the debate, is delivered to the Proposer together with the draft, which he will have in mind when making the proposal, and therefore I am putting before the MPs for a statement. Whether this draft is accepted as the basis for making the proposal and whether it can be accessed with these discussions that will be delivered to the Proposer to have them in the works. Who's in? Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? Of the 22 people present, 22 voted unanimously. As there are enough votes from the entity in this structure, I find that the predstavnički of Representatives has accepted that the draft basic law on the Ombudsman of BiH serves as the basis for making the proposal, i.e. for second reading, and that, in the case of the preparations, the discussions, which were held at today's session. I ask the MPs to remain in place. We'll keep working on the 7th item of the agenda. The 7th point is the motion for a resolution. Please, we've adopted the agenda and I'm asking you to keep that in mind, or to finish first, the 8th and the 7th things add up. Please, since we have a resolution on the agenda for the first time, I will remind you that our Rules of Procedure provides that the motion for a resolution first has the right to explain, for the longest time, 20 minutes, preferably six minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7095	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7096	Please, Mrs. Desanka, we've adopted the agenda, I understand completely, but appreciate that, because we're not that often in these sessions and we can handle it. Only with Mr Spahić's consent would we be able to make changes in the agenda, but this would raise further questions. The color is to be expedient, to be concise, after the opening presentation, it is possible to debate, I call on all those who do not have the essential contribution to refrain from the debate, we will approach the statement of the resolution and thus end the point. Mr Spahić, please state the opening exhibition as concisely as possible and as you usually know it, briefly. 76 Ad.7. Resolution
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7097	Okay, first of all, I want to express my satisfaction that we passed this bill, here goes Mr. Frank Orton and the Human Rights Group, for two reasons. As far as I'm concerned, since the lady has been asked to make a statement about this law before I take my word for it, I agree, I'm not making any trouble about it, but, too, I expect that MPs will have the patience to discuss the problem of resolution, well, I, of course, respect your interest, and I must say publicly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7098	Thank you, Mr. Spahić. We'll do this permutation on the agenda. I'd like some attention from the MPs, please. We're going to do this permutation at the agenda points and at this point we're going to move to point 8. Ad.8. Giving consent to the Federation of BiH for the conclusion of the Agreement on the Rehabilitation of Education Loan with the OPEC Fund You have received the text of this agreement. The issue is that the government of the Federation of BiH has made a decision on the adoption of an agreement on a loan for the renewal of education with the OPEC Fund and this year 13.7. In accordance with Article 3, point 2d. The BiH Constitution, the BiH Parliament should give its consent so that this agreement can be ratified. In addition to the text, the content of the decision was delivered, the amount of funds concerned was delivered, the facilities were delivered, i.e. the schools provided for reconstruction, or reconstruction. I am only adding that the funds will be returned by municipalities, or cantons, that the procedures for the return of funds are prescribed and that the Federation of BiH is simply talking to us, in accordance with Article 3, Article 2, indent C, to give our consent to this agreement. I don't think there's a problem here. I do not see them reporting for debate and I call on MPs to declare who is in favour of giving consent to the Federation of BiH to sign this agreement. Who's in? Do you mind? Abstained. Of the 22 people present, 22 voted in favour, therefore, unanimously. There is a content and entity-needed number of votes. Therefore, a decision has been adopted to give consent to the Federation of BiH to join the signing of the agreement. We return to point 7 and give our word to Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7099	But I'm still running out of quorum. No, you're a quorum. Mrs. Rađević, I respected you, your suggestion, right, Mr. Banjac. I'm glad you're guarding the quorum. Thank you very much. 77 Since we will declare this resolution, there are two options. I want to say right now that you don't take it in the time I'm going to talk about it. The first option is contained, the first option is that, gentlemen, the chairman and participants of our assembly, our parliament, since both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly have adopted the initiative, that at one of the extraordinary sessions, the economic and social policy in BiH is discussed, and that the BiH Council of Ministers accepted, after a year and a half, the interpretation that I submitted almost parallelly with this resolution, I thought it was very important that I draw your attention to two facts. I'll try to be very precise. This resolution and interpretation are in a direct relationship, one and the other document. They are based on the entire mandate of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, behold, almost at the end of the term of office of this Parliamentary House of BiH, it finally comes to the agenda of economic and social policy. What is most important, what I want to give, indeed, as an MP of one recognition to the people who have endured, are the MPs and the College of one and the other home, who persistently, from month to month, for a year and a half, have been correspondence with the other institution, the executive authority to come to the final answer to this request, which was unique, I must underline. Another important moment for me is the fact that today we need to say something about these issues that I raised in the Resolution. So, since we are going to declare on the Resolution, which essentially contains, basically, all the requirements that have been made in the interpretation and those requirements concerning the most significant, I would say, the moment BiH is developing. I'd like to present a few views very briefly, and you try to identify yourself in the right way. First, BiH is facing one election today, whether it will essentially change its priority structure in the work of state institutions or not, and how this change of priorities will act, above all, on economic policy and social policy in BiH. Of course, like all of us, we can ask three key questions right now. First, BiH has today, according to statistics, about 3,800,000 people. In this population structure, 500,000 people are completely out of work, of which 84,327 are on hold, 411,523, according to statistics I have consulted, are on bureaus or completely unemployed. Exports of BiH, as you know, are already practically three to one versus imports. That means more imports than exports and the deficit is complete. These are amounts in huge numbers of millions that I don't need to talk about, you can figure that out in every statistic in government and council. The third data that is important today, debts in BiH are so terrible and only some measures are envisaged, I would say, to restore any ability of the BiH economy to repay these debts of this society. We don't have competition laws until today. So we don't have a dynamic society, but we have one closed, hermetical society in which privatisation, transition, transport structure, including all possible elements of the transport structure, in fact, confirm that fact, from the banal example of the railways to, of course, the examples that talk about the absence of a market in BiH. Privatization flows, and in just 30 October, therefore, in a few days, the privatisation of medium, large enterprises begins, the global, large, as I would say, change in BiH's ownership rights and a complete change in the structure of the Bosnian-Herzegovina society. That's why I think this resolution is important today in BiH. It is important that we, on the one hand, must take into account the 78 interests of BiH, on the other hand, have a global and regional environment around BiH in mind. Globally, we have three targets that are defined. The first is, of course, that BiH, in a way, stands on its feet. The second goal is for BiH to join the Council of Europe. Two years, the EU's twenty-one principle of joining BiH, in fact, is not being realised. The document in front of me and before you is the White Paper, which is a strategic basis for connecting and standardisation the internal BiH, so that we can enter normally into the accession process. So-called The map of the path that should go into 18 points is also, in the good part, in some way, in another way, as I would say, half of our interests. What kind of economic agreements do we have in the region and with whom, with neighbors and the region? How we and the EU today, at this transitional stage, have at all in transition the opportunity to talk when we are not the assumptions relating to entering the World Trade Organisation, which is the central lever of stabilising economic opportunities, managed to overcome. BiH, today, is indeed a country that is, of course, geographically integrated into Europe. You are in Central Europe, in Balkan space, in Mediterranean space, but what is BiH today? It's a land of unemployed and terribly cheap and highly ill-educated labour. 58% belongs, as you know, to what's called a qualified force, which is only 4.111 high-level unemployed personnel, everything else belongs to medium and qualified personnel. 42% of these 500,000 unemployed are exclusively semi-skilled and unskilled workers. What is the programme in BiH that is doing, in a way, retraining and giving our citizens a chance to get to any job and not simply be a mass of exploitation in the coming period? Why don't we, apart from the standards law, have any consumer protection laws? Well, because we are a country that has completely opened up to the world without being protected, in a way, by its own laws and the interests of its citizens. Why did I want to open the issues of economic policy and social policy at the same time in Resolution? Because every day you're asked by civilian wartime disabled workers who lose their jobs every minute, who no one guarantees anything, because the pensioners can't get their salaries and because the funds are scattered and developed, something today has been said in the inauguration of the new chairman and, in fact, who is protecting today the various banks that have lost their savings? Where is the discussion of serious restitution in BiH at all? Why people who are abandoned, disabled or permanently ill, it's a huge category, can't find social security in their country, because we haven't ratified the European Social Charter. You know that charter very well, I suppose, it's about one card of obligations, state, institution. Today we've had an exhibition here on fetishation, what is a state and what is it supposed to do. We, like BiH, have not answered questions or what it is today, at this time, the public sector, or why institutions do not face corruption and bribes in BiH. Which is why our human capital, in fact, and in an educational sense, so if you want in both the environment and in any other sense, is simply suppressed, as the only serious natural resource that BiH has. Why was he suppressed? Because neither political steps nor economic steps nor steps related to human rights and democracy are regulated within BiH by laws that would be equal to all and that respect all possible differences, that is the main problem. It is clearly said there, the EU's accession is only considered if all three fundamental, basic circles are connected. You can't uncuff one and forget the other. What I would like to warn you specifically is that today we have a society that is trying to make a strategy in some way, this is the first time we have a signal from the BiH Council of Ministers after the interpretation, and that is a good sign, but we do not have social cohesion, because there is no social dialogue either, there is no social cohesion unless the talker is respected. If the union is not respected, the employer is not respected, the BiH Council of Ministers does not respect the elements of the bargaining that are 79 normal in society everywhere. Why do we think we should do more for ourselves than others do for us? Well, because it's the only way that we in this family of Europeans and citizens find our own place that's logical. We can't go beyond these integrations, it's our interest, but it's a question of what our interest is, if, for example, a minister who proposes in the programme of work a law on the protection of intellectual property gives up that law, because it's considered a burden, which is a fundamental law for entering the World Trade Organisation. Why do I think three elements matter to BiH? First, internal organization and laws. A development strategy I hope to see, not only as an entrepreneurial society in BiH, and BiH as an entrepreneurial society, because it is one element of what the BiH strategy is. It is a central theme of our future years, but the central theme is a human factor that is lost and destroyed. It is very good in the education system that finally, after a great debate, there is at least an open chance in our programme of the BiH Parliament to talk about it as a common interest, quality of education, quality and completion of higher schools, etc. Take a look at today's information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of European Integration on the Stability Pact. You have two different documents. They come from a Council of Ministers. I have already suggested to them that they meet and make for the next session an answer to what it is, in fact, information from the Council of Ministers when it comes to the Stability Pact. Look, there are no real investments and at this point there is no coordination at all, it is seen between the two ministries in one body, let alone between parliament, to what we have committed to the BiH Presidency resolution and the Council of Ministers of BiH. If two authorities can't make co-ordinations that are fundamental... to the Council of Ministers for that area, how will others work? Thirdly, we must define economic, political and social interests in relation to neighbours and the region. It's not just the Stability Pact. These are documents regarding our future in other areas. Let me conclude this part of the exposure as follows. First, BiH is on the lookout today. If it continues to respect, for example, the legislation of the Council of Europe and of the European Union in the domain of social relations, labour and social rights and policies, if it will not establish..., in relation to social and health insurance, which Europe implies, then the issue will naturally be raised in BiH, whether after all this BiH can simply enter the process we have had today in the presentation of many of our participants in relation to the Council of Ministers of BiH. That's what I'd like to end up with next, perhaps on your surprise. I read, the other day, information about what some politicians in BiH said ten years ago in 1990. It's exactly a decade since then, and I've looked at all possible parameters in the '90s. and in 2000, including pre-war and war and war. I want to tell you. Of historical importance, of daily importance, it is of human importance that we face economic policy problems, to start talking about, to be a strategy and, as I say, the first plan of all our institutions. I know it's much easier to talk about amendments, some law, to struggle on some issues, but if we don't take this resolution seriously and don't accept it as an act of 80 political will, we will lose a simple foundation for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7100	Mr. Spahić, thank you, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7101	Ladies and gentlemen, I know you're at the end of your patience, but I'm begging you in five minutes. Listen to Mr Spahić, I have to tell you that I remembered a choice that was sold at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering when I was a young assistant. The committee challenged this gentleman to be elected, and then it was announced to the commission and I was on that committee, and the question was, how do you announce it to the council, and the professor of sociology said it should be diplomatic, and we asked, or Marxism, excuse me, that was when it was called Marxism. We asked, what does that mean? Well, he says, he needs to talk for 30 to 45 minutes, and he doesn't say anything and, of course, we put him in charge of it, and he did it fantastically. He really talked for 45 minutes, didn't say anything, and no one asked why that professor couldn't get a pass to be prodigal. We've been listening here for half an hour, and we haven't really heard a single word about social problems, about economics, about the solutions our people are looking for. By reading in particular this text, here, at first I suggest to Mr Spahić either that he withdraws it or that we reject it, the apriors reject it, without discussion, because the eventual adoption of this text would be offensive to this high home. I have to tell you that, reading the text, I was wondering what was behind this. Because Mr. Spahić would never say that he is illiterate, on the contrary, and this is written illiterate and then man could, again, remember, when a famous poet was asked, what he thought of the criticism of his last collection. He said, well, you know what, when I read the review, then I realized what I was going to say. Here, indeed, we would have to interpret much in order for Mr Spahić to understand what he wanted to say. First of all, I'm going to give you a few illustrations about this claim of mine, because the claims are huge, you know. I'm not going to stay coy. Look at the first sentences. He says, in accordance with section two, part four of the resolution, I propose a resolution. What resolution? What resolution is this resolution based on? So, from the 16 points of view of this resolution, it is said in 14 views that the House of Representatives, therefore, does not stand behind any of this. Not out, but he thinks that's the way it is. This is most likely the prescribed part of Mr Spahić's party programme, which is called civic. Look at everything that's thought of. It is suggested to the assembly that the assembly accepts the act in which it stands, e.g., it is crucial for BiH to complete the privatisation process as justly as possible. At least as much as we know how fair or unfair privatisation is, but to go out with a congregation act in which we call for justice to be as just as, indeed, one legislative authority should never allow it. Or an absurd sentence. I'll read it to you. I read what it says, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, says, the problem of unemployment and general poverty is seen as the biggest task of all governments in BiH, chambers and trade unions, and BiH's growth into a dynamic development society, not possible without systematic solutions and co-operation with 81 strategic partners. It's all one single sentence, it's not even stuck. Or, please, look at this sentence. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is committed to strengthening BiH institutions, which, as the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, wanted to stand out as the Foreign Chamber of Commerce for good, but is not at all in this context, which, as the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, will be able to provide conditions for development with the Council of Ministers and trade unions and employers, in line with their role. Indeed, this is a language, I mean, a Bosniak language, which I understand very well, really, I think I understand well and I can read without a dictionary, but this text, I have to admit that I don't understand and that I don't bother you any further. I do have a questionnaire, a challenger, with multiple views. Time has moved away and I must admit, reading this text, I was thinking whether it was necessary for Mr Spahić to write that BiH citizens should breathe, preferably clean air, should eat possibly healthy food and I must tell you that I found something in this sense, because he says here in one place: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, thinks, always considers it, nothing but believes that BiH must release dirty technologies and secure environmental protection". Perhaps Mr Spahić thought, and I would support him, that dirty technologies should be out there in Austria, Germany, and that they give us nice loans and donations, that we breathe clean air here and eat healthy food. Thank you very much. I'm the one who suggested that this be rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7102	Thank you. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first one small replica to Mr. Dokić. Namely, a good number of MPs are very often, consciously or unconsciously, the Bosnian language is referred to as the Bosniak language. I, of course, do not dispute the right for everyone to speak in their own language, and if we respect the fact that Srbin speak in Serbian, to speak Croatian, I do not know who should be disturbed by the fact that Bošnjak speak Bosnian. So, if that is the extent to which the debate on human rights is present, then one of the fundamental human rights should be respected, and that is the right to language and to the name of that language, indeed, such a friendly, collegiate appeal to all of us to respect other people's rights and commitment. That's my point. As far as the Resolution is concerned, I would only support Mr Spahić's intensification to raise this economic and social problem to the state level, so that the state can take a share in addressing certain economic and social issues. Given that it is impossible for a country, a poor, small state, such as BiH, without one complementarity, to go to a state level cohesion when it comes to the economic and social problems of BiH, to the green branch. I plead to support Spahic's basic idea, his initiative, that this issue be given appropriate and legislative treatment at BiH level. Whether it's this resolution or some other act, I don't know. I may not even be an absolute measuring person, but I have recognized one of his good initiatives and in order to support such one of his basics, I would say, politically, I will give support in the principle of this act, although I am also not sure that Mr Spahić may be the most measured person to propose an 82 such resolution, or that he has consulted a number of people, let's say, competent, who can come out with one resolution, who would absolutely meet our needs on this plan. I do not know, as the signature stands representative in the House of Representatives, Mr Spahić Ibrahim, and he is not himself, at least it seems to me, has not explained in more detail which reliable authority in this sphere has consulted in making such a text. I have seen certain inconsistencies myself, Mr Dokić pointed out very well that in the Resolution, not only can the mere consensus, the opinion that it is predominant, that it dominates, must be categorically reasoned attitudes based on statistics and professional views, but I think, let's say, this last detail where it is said that it is necessary that the state institutions of BiH, as well as entity, cantonal and municipal authorities take responsibility for the development of social programmes, etc., I don't think that this last detail of our reality and our opportunities, especially the municipalities, are not, at least in the Federation of BiH, cadres to deal with this problem, it's much more serious that one community would be able to take any responsibility for the development of social protection programmes of the endangered categories of the population, etc. However, I believe that the basic initiative is good, and for this reason it should not just be out of the question what Mr Spahić intended to propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7104	Thank you, Mr. Raguž, chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7105	I thank you, and I apologize, very briefly, if I can make a contribution to both MPs and to us in the future work of the council. As chairman of the council, I believe that the warning of a difficult situation is standing, and in this sense I am experiencing Mr Spahić's initiative and, of course, I would like to channel common energy into something that can be productive for all of us, respecting all the limitations and text and content and all that are shown in this text, but I think that the basic intensity, the message, that this country and its institutions are starting to take care of their structure, their perspective, their resources and that in this sense we restore one dignity. I think that this intensity corresponds to what the Council of Ministers of BiH has taken over, and this House has approved, and this is a whole strategy that this House, one or another call, will get, I think very quickly, and in this respect, to strengthen the need for it to be adopted as soon as possible, and it would be done at one competent level, which would include all levels of government and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of entities and professional institutions, and I would say one international observation condensed, which objectively exists, analyses of the IMF and the World Bank and some others, so that we all together can make one more incentive to make it come to the agenda as soon as possible and to debate it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7106	Thank you. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7107	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I would really like to look back on this resolution, which I would like to commend in terms of the efforts of our fellow Members who wanted to draw attention to a single document to the beauty of the problem in our country. But, unfortunately, this resolution is a preeminent to a self-government society, and self-government is, by the way, the property of a single developed society or should be a single developed society in which the economy is at a very high level. You probably remember these resolutions in pre-war Yugoslavia, when they were brought into a common flat economic policy and social policy. Unfortunately, it was done by politicians, not economists. Economists are on several occasions, not to mention those economic reforms in '96. the years, and perhaps even before, tried to create a system of solutions, but politicians saw what these social tensions brought about by economic solutions, so they revised these economic reforms with political measures and, unfortunately, we got what we got. Namely, I'd just like to draw attention to a few things. In principle, I agree that our position in economic terms is very ugly. I also agree that this Council of Ministers and our state do not have any mechanism of economic policy that they could regulate any matter in the economy. Bringing the resolution, without the mechanisms of economic policy, would be ridiculous. To talk about monetary policy in us, really not unfairly, from the point of view of science and from the point of view of theory, if we know that our banking system is not at all a connected system, but a system of broken organisms, absolutely unrelated and unsupported. Our Central Bank only has one function and it's by no means the Central Bank except by name. Our commercial banks have nothing to do with the Central Bank, nor is there any institution that would support the daily or multi-day liquidity of banks, and our all expensive banks are ridiculous in their potential, versus all banks in our environment, without speaking wider in the Balkans and Europe. I would suggest a few things that I find very ideologically dangerous. So what we're trying to say here is that the government's problem is unemployment. I agree that this is a social problem, but not in terms of employment, because our government, our country, is not allowed to hold any economic potential and therefore privatisation and employment issues are transferred to other segments of society. I think it's incorrect to claim cheap labour in our country. For those who deal with the economy, I would just point out, according to the information I have, from BiH to Japan, therefore, without Japan. BiH is the most expensive workforce. Mr Spahić, you see, there are precise standards in the economy how this is calculated, and you see how much income in BiH is for workers' professions, and you see how it is from Bosnia to Japan. From the neighborhood to India and not to mention all the countries to Japan. Ensuring the rights of workers and their families is a noble gesture and I agree that this should be done in some way. The union organisation is indeed a condition that should be in terms of protecting workers' rights from their employers. Their employers are no longer state and 84 state institutions. Their partnership with power is again the biggest prank that can be done, and that's what I would draw attention to, not trying to make a partnership with power. It is a labour right to work and to enjoy human rights in accordance with the European Charter of Human Rights, if it works, it will not be able to have rights except for the social one, which will be able to guarantee the state in accordance with its definitions and its material power again. As far as our country is concerned, I have to say that the balance of payments with abroad, unfortunately, is not measured by millions, but by billions, unfortunately, and obviously there is no tank that won't leak, it's just a matter of which intensity and what consequences. But in addition to this negative balance of payments with abroad, we have an internal very severe imbalance in internal payments, which requires consolidation. In which way it will be executed is the question. The way the law enforcement and judicial authorities react, in terms of criminal charges, and not trying to charge from people who do not settle their debt-confidential relations, is a really gruesome way, so at the same time we will have unsettled internal debt-confidential relations and, by the way, we will have a crime promotion based on unfulfilled debt-religious relations. So, in any case, I support the activities in terms of making a resolution and I would like to commend Mr Spahić on this, but, in a professional sense, I think this would be very good to consider at levels of knowledge, profession, economy and, in this sense, through the Council of Ministers to offer this Parliament a kind of resolution, but unfortunately, I would not call this a strategy of economic development, it is very optimistic. We first need to consolidate our economic system, our economic system, well, then, once we've achieved consolidation, we need to try to move towards development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7108	Thank you. I don't have any registered debaters, Mrs Filipović is reporting at the last minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7109	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome the valuable work of our colleague Spahić and I have seen this more as one call for Resolution and every thesis he has given is very valuable attention and I thank our new prime minister for that and for realizing and for using these aspirations to make a good plan for our future work. I was particularly intrigued by that part about unemployment, especially about not having a plan for, Mr Spahić, you said that the largest number of medium-level expertise is unskilled. Unfortunately, the international community makes it possible to get out of the country to our high-level personnel, who then employs as a medium professional staff and unskilled workforce, because they are working there any jobs, and we are left without those who should raise this country, perhaps, and in that sense some appeal should be sent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7110	Replica, Mrs. Desanka. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7111	The reply is to use the prime minister's term, referring to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. If it is warned here that we do not use the term Bosniak language, because the Constitution says Bosnian, which I completely agree with, what the Constitution says we must respect. Although it is clearly illogical to me, why should the Francuz speak French, Englez English, Srbin, Croatian Hrvat and Bošnjak do not speak Bosniak. However, it is clear to all of us and why this is so, but it is neither the time nor the time to talk about it now. The BiH government has repeated several times here today, and now the prime minister, and that is not what the Constitution says, so let's be consistent.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7112	I understand this is a line and that from now on only constitutional categories are used in terms of both Bosnian language and the Council of Ministers of BiH [[/Someone was talking from the scene.]] We will organize a round table on this subject, and Mr. Ibro Spahić will be half a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7114	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to speak very carefully to Dokić. First, this first sentence, in accordance with Section II of Part IV, is a resolution – it is a business basis for proposing a resolution, so there is no misunderstanding. It's all very written. As for the point that there is no point in one sentence, I am glad that this point will not be a small hole from which it will drain the interest of the representative of the House of Representatives and the Government to deal with these problems, despite your attempt to disqualify it in the way you normally do, reading what suits you, skipping what does not suit you in the text and continuing with some other text, which does not exist at all in the text. Third, as for that point you've discovered, I'd like to put in one point. I absolutely cannot understand that a man who is an engineer and who is a professor at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and an MP ignores the fact that I am in my presentation, which, too, is a business matter, said that this is a document which is the basis for debate, to hear your opinion, to support what has already been accepted by the Council of Ministers of BiH, an interpretation that I wrote in the Bobo and lectured along the way, because I had time for that. And as far as this text is concerned, your last intervention on, or on, dirty technologies is, at the very least, an insolent attitude towards the citizens of BiH. I hope BiH citizens will not accept that they remain within what you have put in a beautiful way, ironically, as a relationship between the world and BiH. It is not BiH's integration, either economically or socially or politically in European and other flows that we would like to be a depot, either Balkan or any part of Europe and the world. On the contrary, the intensity of this resolution is literally what was said in the interpretation, which the BiH Council of Ministers accepted and my interest is next. I would like to thank my colleagues and representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, who have shown interest in discussing issues of economic and social policy. What you, Mr Dokić, have never systematically and systematically proposed during your five years in office in this House, which you have never been able to endure at the request of one who would establish such a relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, that is your problem. But BiH's problem is not your problem, it's the problem of all BiH citizens. So if you've discovered that point and because of it, you're rejecting the point of discussion and the intensity of this resolution, and if you think that by discovering that point that hasn't been struck, I have to tell you something. The problem is on the agenda, the problem has been accepted by the BiH Council of Ministers. Bosnia and Herzegovina has finally won, if nothing more, a category that is much larger, much more subtle and important for BiH citizens, than simply our controversy and outwitting what is here and what is there. As for the experts who have been consulted. Every point here is consulted and contained, you'll see to it very soon with many institutions, if you want to know, with the chamber, but unfortunately, there's no outside chamber, so it's said. The foreign trade chamber does not exist in BiH, because it is blocked. It's blocked its formation. A BiH presidency decision was formed in June. To date, the BiH Council of Ministers could not come up with this proposal, and you know, Mr Dokić, among other things, because of your personal attitude, among other things, because of the views of people who do not respond that BiH has an external trade chamber, but would like us to have three chambers. Foreign trade and two entity chambers, of course, be regional, be entity, but BiH must be given the right combined trade chamber, that was the goal of this document. It is not that we are fighting, you and I, but I am surprised that you who are a professor, in a way and a businessman, are engaged in a strategy for the development of electronics and a lot of other things, do not realize that it is important for this Parliament to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to complete this work of strategy, development, etc., to pass a law on the external trade chamber and to present it, because it is the essence of our needs. And I would like to conclude by suggesting that Resolution has its own destiny, to be accepted or rejected, but not because of one or more points and commas. It must be, as well as well placed in its essence, an invitation from the PSBiH House of Representatives to the BiH Council of Ministers, with experts, with the Chamber of Commerce, with trade unions, continue the dialogue. I can also talk about categories, if you will, both the previous system and this system and the future, but there's no globe for a country where the government doesn't look for a partner in the union and doesn't look for a partner in the economy, in chambers, and it doesn't look for partners in science. I leave this resolution, of course, to you and the Council of Ministers to do the job properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7115	You'll get the word, just to remind you, after the opening statement, which is submitted by the introduction, everyone has the right to participate in the debate for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7116	It doesn't say anything. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7117	It's in the Rules of Procedure. It says decadent, because Resolution is on the agenda for the first time, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7118	About Resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7119	Part 4, resolution. The motion for a resolution will receive a word of up to 20 minutes, then the other participants can receive a word of up to ten minutes. The amendments to the motion for a resolution shall be submitted in writing at any time of the sitting. Please, there's no amendment so far. So, he applied for the need for an explanation or a wrong quote, or a wrong quote, Mr. Dokić and Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7120	Here, I'll do it for a while, I really don't need any longer discussions. No one disputes the validity of the initiative to discuss a difficult social situation for people in BiH here, among other things. But, please, it's not one point and one point is that there's no point here in any one single attitude. Be patient just to read to you what applies, I won't interpret, I beg you, there were insults about disqualification, professional, professional, I don't convince, I want to read to you. How this resolution will encourage our pensioner after such a congregation attitude, if we adopt this, and I hope we do not adopt it. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives believes that all types of pension and disability insurance must be paid full attention and ensure that the citizens of BiH receive their well-deserved pensions regularly and in accordance with the relevant laws. Is that a message to this home, to the council, to the home, however you wish, is that a message to this home to the pensioners right now? And as for technology, it's true that my finding was ironic, but forgets Mr Spahić that repairing the economic situation is without technology, no production, and at this point we don't have any technology, that's the point. There's no technology.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7121	Gentlemen, after the appearance of Mr Dokić, and this is the first performance, and Ibri's first and second performance, I don't know if it's the basis for making a resolution, whether it's a promotion to make a resolution or a resolution. This is where the resolution says, my people, Ibro has denied himself. First he says it's the resolution, and then he says it's the basis for the resolution. I get the impression it's a promotion. If we know what promemoria is. Guys, let's just realize once we're struggling on something, people come out to talk about their part and talk about the tenth thing. Don't do that. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7122	Please, I don't have any charges to discuss. Following the end of the debate, the motion for a resolution shall be put on the plea. This came on the agenda as a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7123	The MP said it was the basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7124	There's no other way. There is a business opportunity for the resolution to be adopted and for the motion for a resolution to come to the agenda, there are no other options, please. So, we've exhausted the debate. All the applicants spoke and I concluded the debate. We'll access the resolution statement until we can establish a quorum. We'll wait two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7125	That this resolution should be addressed to the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers to agree with the proposal, and if there is a need for some more people to agree on the text. [[You don't hear enough from the place.]] It would be a shame to say no. /At the time when the quorum is waiting, a joint discussion/
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7126	At this point, we have a quorum to plead. There was a consultation here in the sense that the proposal was delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers. At the moment, however, Mr Spahić's interpretation of the procedure is in the process. The interpretation also contains socio-economic opportunities and interpretation is delivered by procedure to the BiH Council of Ministers and is currently in the process. Therefore, in the procedure it is a question, and the question of Resolution, according to the Rules of Procedure, we must end up with a statement of acceptance or refusal of Resolution, and therefore, after this final debate, I call on the MPs to make known which of the texts of the Resolution, which you have received, submitted by Mr Spahić. After the discussion has been exhausted, the resolution shall be put to the vote. Who's for Resolution? Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? We're going after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? Of the 22 MPs present, 14 voted against 6, abstention 2. The motion for a resolution was given to most of those present. However, from Federation of BiH 11, but from RS 3, and this vote is not needed, since it has not received an entity-needed third, it should go to the alignment, according to the Rules of Procedure. I thank and move on to the last item of the agenda. 89 Ad.9. MP questions and answers I just want to inform you that you have received text, written text answers to Mr. Ibro Spahić's questions twice, Mr. Banjac two questions, Mr. Abdurahman Malkić one question and Mrs. Mare Perkanović one question. I ask the MPs who have asked a question and received an answer, whether they are satisfied with the answers, and then we will ask questions afterwards. Are MPs who received a written reply satisfied? Let's take it in a row. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7127	Firstly, I must point out once again, I ask you to listen to this carefully, Prime Minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I agree, Chairman, I ask you to make sure that the answer I received as an MP for the question, from the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, try with your authority, as chairman, to consider calling on one and another minister and to get one information from the House and the public. I don't know if there's going to be a session of this house, but I demand that the public get one piece of information about the same question. It is unacceptable for me to get two information from two different ministries that disagree with the numbers, or in a mutual relationship. Take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7128	Thank you. Mrs. Perkanović also had an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7129	I have to express my dissatisfaction with the answer received in terms of discrimination in the privatisation of dwellings where people have tenant rights. I am dissatisfied with the reasoning that this is meant to stimulate the return of refugees and displaced persons. Gentlemen, this is another violation of human rights and in response. People who had pre-war tenant rights did not leave these apartments by their own free will, but were expelled, or could barely get out of their lives, which means they were taken away by force of that right of residence and staying in that apartment. Under number two. When they received these apartments and received them for use, they had the right to exchange these apartments in the contract, which means they could exchange their apartment anywhere for an appropriate apartment on the territory of the former Yugoslavia. So they're also deprived of that right. I am now asking a new parliamentary question based on this answer that I am not satisfied with. Why is it that people are deprived of the right to have their rights? 90
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7130	Thank you. The question is Mrs. Desanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7131	My question is addressed to everyone, I suppose the representatives of the OHR can give me a valid answer. As I came to Sarajevo this morning for the assembly, since the campaign was pre-election, everything around the roads was coloured from various posters and passwords, which is in one hand and normally, however, one poster that was so tightly stuck by the roads, after Maglai and then on here, in the territory of the Federation of BiH, fell right into my eyes and, behold, I couldn't help but ask that question. Who posted large posters along the roads in the Federation of BiH that read "it's time for BiH, without entities"? Is that an attack on the BiH Constitution? Why does OHR not sanction such incidents, and what would happen if something similar appeared in RS that irritated the citizens of the Federation of BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7132	I have the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7133	I asked publicly, and...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7134	Thank you, the issue of this issue is to contribute to a party's election campaign, because the objective of the posters is to attract attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7135	They'd take me off the list right now if I wrote RS on my own, they'd take me down right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7136	My question has been addressed to all relevant factors in BiH, starting with the BiH Council of Ministers, OHR, UN, IPTF, Prague for Human Rights, the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of TP Canton, as well as political parties operating on the Tuzlan-Poninj canton. According to whose scenario do mujahedins move from Bočinje to the edge areas of Brcko District to Roma settlements belonging to the Srebrenica municipality? It's an area of Tuzlan-Polinian canton. Their settlement destabilizes opportunities in the area. It blocks the return of Srbin to pre-war homes in the Srebrenica municipality and seriously threatens peaceful co-existence in Brcko District. Gentlemen, that started a month ago, synchronised, with the eviction from the bottle. From then on, day to day, strange things have been happening in Brcko District. Militaryization is growing. There have been incidents every day, and two nights ago, a terrorist attack killed a 22-year-old girl, coming from work. It was shot in her from the gun in the car. Since we all know what mujahedins mean to 91 people of Serbian nationality and what is associated with them, which is all the wrongs, and which are a threat to the peace and peaceful life of the Serbian nation in the area where they settle, and accordingly, I ask and demand that I be answered for what is done and why in Brcko and whether it points to one statement by Mr. Alija Izetbegović, after returning from Dayton, that if it is not unitary Bosnia, it will be Palestine. Is Bejrut in Brcko, please, asking for that answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7137	Mrs Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7138	I'd like to ask you a question about who organized a high school demonstration in Brcko and who beat up two kids in Brcko?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7139	This is a parliamentary issue directed to the competent institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7140	I would like to refer to the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, the foreign ministry, one issue which is also one proposal. First, I would like to welcome the changes to the neighbours of the Eastern, in the previous elections, and I would like to welcome, in this respect, the president of the SRJ, who at the last meeting organised by the Stability Pact, according to the public reports, to say that he accepts all the agreements, the Dayton Peace Agreement with all the conventions, calls, undertakes that the SRJ will, in that sense, request admission to the UN as well as all other states that have come from the area of the former Yugoslavia, require good neighbourly relations and the establishment of diplomatic relations, without conditions, with neighbours. In that sense, I would like to propose to the BiH Presidency, of course, as well as to the question, will the BiH Presidency, since Mr Genjac is also the chairman and member of the BiH Presidency, go out in an adequate manner with a precise attitude, together with the Foreign Ministry, in relation to this statement by Mr Koštunica? I hope BiH today will be able to closely monitor and be active until the Zagreb summit on 24 November, and I think it would be very important for the BiH delegation to be so drawn up to ensure BiH's maximum interests, in this respect, within the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7141	I don't know if you know it, but it's illegal for channel S, because it broadcasts a report on the surviving Srbin' testimony from the Chelebic camp near Konjic. I'm asking the IMCE question. Why not sanction TV in the Federation of BiH, which at the same time broadcast documentary material about the funeral of Mušan Topalović – Cace, testimony by bošnjakinje who claimed, on the track, that they were raped by other 92 coercions of numerous crimes allegedly committed by Srbin. Why is there no punishment for those TV houses?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7142	Thank you. Question askers are exhausted, Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7143	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I would just like to take the opportunity to congratulate the chairman of the Assembly on its membership in the BiH presidency. I did not do it at the beginning, and, behold, I am taking this opportunity to do it eventually and I hope that from now on until the end of our term, at least one member of the BiH Presidency will be present at our meetings. Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-18-0.u7144	Thank you, and this is where I end this session. The seat's finished at 8:30.
