ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5162	Dear guests, I am opening the 19th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I suggest we listen to the anthem. I continue to report that this session is being called: the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH. At the session are also invited representatives of public communication funds, I warmly welcome all of you here and I want successful work. According to our service report, there are 22 representatives present, which means, here is 24 in the meantime, which means we can make a measurement decision at this session. The absence from this session was announced by Ivo Mijačević, Mikulić Anita, both for health reasons, Haris Silajdžić, Sejfudin Tokić, Bogić Bogičević and Ivo Lozančić, due to the official route. Representatives Ana Havel, Mara Perkanović and Ibrahim Spahić will be a little late for their official trip to Hungary, and today they are landing, and we hope they will help us with this work. Minister Mirsad Kurtović apologizes for his inability to attend the House session. štovati gentlemen, since we have a quorum for full-time decision-making, I suggest we get started. For the 19th session, you received a proposal for a agenda in which one mistake was stolen. Namely, under point 5, please take a look at it. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act should stand, not the draft customs tariff law. Please respect this apology. At ten o'clock today, the College held a meeting, and the conclusion of that meeting is precisely this agenda that you have ahead of you. It is agreed that when setting the agenda, we should appoint two members of the Verification Commission, so that this commission can work. From the order of Croatian MPs, I propose Mr Ljubomir Zovk as a member of the Commission. In the order of Bosniak MPs, instead of Alma Čolo, we propose Mr Ibrahim Spahić. Is there any need for this debate? 2 Who is it for these two people to be included in the commission mentioned? Please plead. I'm asking everyone, who's against this proposal? - No one's against it. Therefore, I find that this conclusion has passed. For the members of the Verification Commission, Mr Ljubomir Zovko and Ibrahim Spahić were elected. We're moving on to a debate on the agenda proposal. You got him. The points are all numbered here, along with one proposal we discussed at the College. Point 6 of the proposed agenda, Proposed Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, because of the abundant material, amendments and objections that followed, we suggest that this point be removed from the agenda and primarily because it has not yet been on the Constitutional Commission. They were supposed to do it today, but the Constitutional Commission, as far as I have a report, couldn't meet simply because it didn't have a quorum, right, Mr. Kadić? Therefore, I ask that this be respected. The proposed agenda, except for point 6. The draft agenda is as you have, with the exception and the request for point 6 to be prolonged for the next session for the reasons set out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat, I would say, the procedural mistakes and problems we had at last session of the House, I, before we move on to the adoption of the minutes, would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the 17th session, our session, that is, from the extension of the 17th session held on 29 February 2000, where it is said that the draft of the electoral law, proposed by the SDP Club, has been given the necessary majority, and can serve as the basis for the draft proposal. You can read this on the page, I have no numbered here, and you have in the record and immediately on the next page says: Ad.3.b) Representative Zlatko Lagumdžija has suggested that the draft of this law is not discussed until the procedure for the draft election law is completed which was discussed at the 16th session, before that. I am warning this because the procedure for voting on the SDP election law draft has not been completed, and today we have under the second item of the agenda, in the draft agenda, a statement on the BiH Election Law Draft, the proposed Club of Representatives of the HDZ BiH. I think that today's agenda should include a statement under the draft of the electoral law, the SDP MP's club's proposal, before we enter into a plea on the BiH Election Law Draft, the HDZ's Club, because it was before and in the procedure, to complete the procedure in the manner and the dynamics under which these proposals arrived in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5164	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5165	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I think this is an explanation that we have heard from the chairman that the agenda item, Proposed Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, is removed from the agenda, for the reasons that many amendments have arrived, is not odd at all, which means that MPs have paid a lot of attention to this document that we claim is important and that we need to get to. I think we should have a debate today on the proposal, especially when the amendments have arrived, which means the MPs are ready, unless the College is ready to hold the debate. I have to tell you, this is the three most serious agenda points for today's session. If we took this point off the agenda, then it would have been good if we hadn't made unnecessary expenses, if we had joined a full agenda with one of the next sessions. There are all the drafts left, there are no legal projects in the proposal, this is the only draft Rules of Procedure. Secondly, I insist that this item remain on the agenda, if there are no further arguments and I demand that a new item be placed on the agenda, it is an analysis of the work of the Independent Media Commission with a proposal to examine the constitutional basis for its existence and continue to function. You know you were looking for written material last time. I've made an effort to give this explanation for the debate, and I don't think I'm going to insist now on what the Council of Representatives will be, but I don't think it makes any sense that we're refusing to discuss such important things for the functioning of the media and media space in BiH. That's two of my suggestions. To keep this item on the agenda and to include a new item on the agenda and ask for a statement on one and the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5166	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I support the position that the draft Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives will be held at today's session, to hold a debate, and we will see what happens to the amendments and possible conclusion. Secondly, I would like to inform the House of Representatives that today, for the first time, the Constitutional Commission did not have a quorum to decide, for the simple reason that one representative resigned and she was respected, a member of the Constitutional Commission, and several members of the Constitutional Commission were justly prevented from attending the session, so that we could not say today about the proposed points for today's agenda. Since the Constitutional Commission, as the chairman said, did not declare its proposal for a Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Commission has not spoken out on any other points foreseen for today's meeting, and this is one difficult fact, but it should be very precise. The PSBiH House of Representatives can discuss agenda points and without the Constitutional Commission's position. I'd like to ask my colleague one question. In fact, Mrs Suada Muminagić proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Framework Law on the privatisation of companies and banks, which is undoubtedly extremely important matter, an extremely important law that would help privatise businesses and banks in BiH's space. However, I must say here that, too, the Constitutional Commission did not declare this law, and since this is a proposal from the MPs in the House of Representatives, as far as I know, or I do not know the full truth, whether this proposal has passed the usual procedure provided for by the House of Representatives, in terms of the Council of Ministers' statement, i.e. the necessary time procedures regarding this law. I note once again, it is an extremely important law, but it seems to me that, unlike some others, this law has come relatively quickly to the agenda of the House of Representatives, in contrast to, say, the law of Dr. Silajdžić, who has been proposed for months but has not been proposed by the College for the agenda of a session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5167	Here, this is my supplement that I need to make here and Mr. Haris Silajdžić has made a proposal for these seven laws, namely the bill, which should come on the agenda today, but unfortunately because of the same criteria, the proposal is also to remove this point 4 6, to be consistent and consistent about what we agreed on. As for the order of arrival on the agenda of certain points, I guarantee you here, those who gave prior proposals, except for interventions, I don't know, some objective circumstances that should violate this principle, here, which we adhere to. Therefore, the Secretariat gave me exactly what I have information, these suggestions for the agenda as they came in time and how they got the appointments from the international community. I therefore believe that this proposal, which I have proposed to point 6, is also a proposal from the College to get off the agenda, which is exactly the principle that we are trying to set here and by which we are trying to adhere. I ask you once again, we have a proposal for this to be a agenda without point 6. We have a proposal that Mr Špirić has brought to be together with his proposal, to make a statement about the media as an additional point of the agenda and, ultimately, we need to make a statement here. Is anyone else picking up?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5168	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I just want it to be seen that in the context of the debate on the agenda, the SDP MPs' club once again expresses its deep dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the fact that we do not even have the information on which the agenda item, i.e. prepared debate, prepared information and an appropriate debate on the economic situation of BiH, from the point of view of our relations with international financial institutions. I remind you that we as parliament have concluded this. I remind you that we have referred to the BiH Presidency an appropriate requirement in this light, reminding me of the fact that last time we tried again from this pay phone, in a mild tone, alarming the competent state institutions. Let me remind you, it is an economic collapse in which the country is definitely going and a completely inadequate preparation of state leadership for the coming economic era. First of all, we talked here, to remind you, of the analysis of what was in Brussels, from the perspective of the Stability Pact, I remind you of the fact that the funds set for BiH in Brussels are absolutely unsatisfactory, minimal, given our needs, and that a special donor conference for BiH, which should be, or which is necessary, the question is whether it will be questioned in this way, if it makes any sense to talk about it now. That is why I want to express my dissatisfaction again, the dissatisfaction of the Members' Club with this attitude of state leadership towards parliament and what is currently going on in the country. We just want to make it very clear from this pay phone that the state leadership is responsible for the economic chaos in which the country enters and in which it is, or to be precise, not in which it enters, but in which it is and in which it crashes further, forward. I'm obliged to say it for what I know, as most of you here know. Once again from this pay phone, I am not asking for a conclusion, I am asking the BiH Presidency to deliver the materials that were on the agenda, I am asking as an MP to get them and ask for a stenogram from the session to discuss it with international financial institutions. If the BiH presidency gentlemen think it has the status of a secret, or I don't know what, we can talk about it, too, but I'm afraid the things that were discussed there must not be a secret to the public of this country. Mr. Chairman, I thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5169	Thank you. Here's my written notice. We sent the emergency, according to what we agreed at last session, to the BiH presidency. To this day, until this hour, we have received no answer, unfortunately. So, and that's one of the points where I don't know if we can talk metrically, since we don't have the answers, so please, here's the information.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5170	This is a replica of Mr. Chairman's statement. More than eight months ago, four representatives of this house requested a special session on the subject of BiH's economic and social policy in 2000. We waited for months, respecting the position of the resolute minister, Mr Kurtović, that without the prepared material we would not go to the debate at this home. As far as I know, this material is finally prepared and agreed in the Council of Ministers, i.e. in the Resort Ministry, but there is still no appointment or special session, as we requested, nor putting this material as a part of the agenda for the meeting of this House. There's a different case here, and I believe that it can also enter into the context of what Dr. Lagumdžija, running away from the debate on BiH's economic problems on the basis of one legitimate request from four MPs and on the basis of prepared material in the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5171	Mr. Chairman, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with your explanation why what I propose cannot be put on the agenda, because Mr. Haris Silajdžić is absent or does this stand a chance only in the package of proposals from Haris Silajdžić to be a part of the agenda? I beg you, when you give an explanation, that they may at least be too much. Haris has no and can't answer the amendments, which doesn't mean I'm running away from being a part of the agenda, but this has nothing to do with what Haris Silajdžić is proposing. I know that you in the College are trying to come to a compromise, but this time that compromise is not the best. Why is this parliament running away to discuss and reach conclusions? I don't want to tell you what the conclusions are going to be, it's going to be the kind of parliament it's going to be. You asked for writing material, we voted, you got written material, you can say you don't like it, you reject the material of the MPs. You can ask for further explanations. We can refer the initiative to the Constitutional Court of BiH and say whether it is constitutional action and legal action. We can ask for the transparency of spending money, because we're also asked to bear it. Why are we running away from that? So, no one's accusing anyone. But it's not the answer for Mr. Silajdžić, which is the same principle for everyone. I am present at this session and I will provide an answer if you ask me. It is a small handicap that Mr Silajdžić does not have, so he cannot answer any questions from the MPs. I'm asking to make a statement on this. Your position is, as an MP, whether you accept it or not. And once again, I insist that the draft Rules of Procedure be on the agenda, because it is important. You know we've been talking about this for a year and a half. She was a working group in Neum, she had the help of the international community, the MPs gave amendments, so, read seriously, and today we're removing it from me inexplicable reasons. I'd ask your reasons to be strong, to convince me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5172	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I understand that people forget, and it's quite a natural phenomenon, in the end, and aging is a process. So I would ask my distinguished colleague Špirić not to forget that we have concluded in the conclusion of this house that six materials that do not arrive seven days earlier cannot be on the agenda. The only reason why you can't go in with your point, according to the Kolegijum, is because yesterday's material was delivered and that's it. You will be included, given that the material was delivered to the MPs that only some today have, and you have a chance to do so at the next session, according to the Kolegijum, and there will be no problem putting it at the next session. The explanation is that Mr. Haris Silajdžić's proposal to, I think, make sense. We thought we should respect the procedure and that's it. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, there have been technical errors in the draft Rules of Procedure compared to the material agreed in Neum. Since we met this morning and saw that there were several technical deficiencies, we felt that it had occurred, I hope that my distinguished colleagues would hear it, because then they wouldn't have to go out and ask what they had already heard. There are technical errors resulting from the transcription, most likely. The College considers it necessary to address these technical shortcomings and to go to the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, which I also consider to be an extremely important document, but if now, in the initial text, those who prepared it are putting amendments, then what we agreed on. Obviously, we're going to have to put those of us who have agreed on the amendments, because it doesn't say what we agreed on, and we want to get over it now and sit down and coordinate it, and there won't be any problems, we'll arrange it for the next session. I don't think it should be complicated. If this House could work the way it did with that Interim Rules of Procedure, it could last another seven days. If the reason is that these seven days are really controversial, then we can discuss it today, but, let me say, we're going to have to put amendments on our own, and that's one absurdity, you understand. For that reason, we thought that the text had to be aligned with the agreement and suggested to you, these are some repairs that are not insignificant, but not to be complicated, to be put on the next session and to be the first item of the agenda, or I don't know which, but in any case, it will be placed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5173	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't mind you in the College agreeing on who will give an explanation, whether it be Mr. Skopljak, Mr. Banjac or Mr. Genjac. I agree with the other part of Mr. Banjac's explanation that the procedure is to pass seven days, and I accept that, but if Mr. Pero is many years old, they, as younger colleagues, must help him.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5174	I wasn't thinking about Peru. I was thinking about you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5175	Well, then I'm younger than you are, so I don't have the aging process. Therefore, your argument, the second part is good, but this first one that gave Pero does not stand. I was only praying to make a valid explanation. So, and I think that what Pero has over our age isn't Mr. Pere's fault.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5176	No, I didn't say about Peru. I said about you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5177	Then you have to say that I'm younger than all of you who sat and debated, but that doesn't matter. Seven days, if the principle that the material must come, I accept it to be at the next session, but it had to be an immediate explanation, not because it was the same principle according to my and Mr Silajdžić's proposals, or, I don't know, any other MPs. I don't accept an explanation for the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't mean that if the College agrees on what he did, it'll pass here. Please, gentlemen, define amendments, as we have, it seems not our own proposal. So if you have a consistent variant, you from the College, then our debate is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5178	Mr. MP, the aging process is inevitable, for both young and old, it flows faster, and with someone slower, that's one thing. Secondly, as far as the proposal is concerned, we agreed in Neum on a proposal. They were created in the copying of the error, and it's not right, I can't accept, Mr. MP, that I'm putting the amendment on what is considered my proposal, then there's really something fat missing here. So we need to align the text with the agreement and, of course, move on. If you feel so important and if this home so considers these seven days, here, we will accept that it is going now and that we are also investing amendments on our own text, which is inappropriate, but we will, and so will we if you think it has to.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5179	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5180	The esteemed presidency, dear colleagues, I don't answer for years, I have a lot of them, so enough is enough that I have them. I would like to ask for an understanding of the establishment of this law, whose proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Framework Law on the privatisation of enterprises, in the procedure. I agree that we have an agreed procedure under the laws that MPs are proposing. However, we all know the situation with the BiH Council of Ministers and that the BiH Council of Ministers has been in no position for a long time to discuss proposals made by MPs. I gave this proposal on March 3rd, therefore, there was enough time for everyone to be delivered in time, and a session of the Constitutional Commission could be held, it was scheduled this morning and there were not enough people to hold it. I'm not asking you to work without the Constitutional Commission. If, during the day, there are enough of us and the Constitutional Commission can plead, I would ask that the bill remain on the agenda. The reason is that the situation, which these changes, in a certain way, need to overcome, is that the situation in the privatisation process is such that we need these restitution solutions urgently, and each delay is increasingly challenging the efficiency of the privatisation process. It wasn't our intention to skip any procedure. I wrote in the proposal itself, and here I am, and now I'm saying, I've been preparing this law in co-operation with the Office of the High Representative, and this law, to put it this way, has come out of necessity. The bill came from an emergency. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5181	Thank you. I, as far as I can see, are no longer here to discuss the agenda, and I will conclude the debate on the draft agenda and put forward the first draft agenda of the College, which you have received in session, except for the point of the draft Rules of Procedure. Please, and I'll put in the supplemental proposals later. Who's for this kind of agenda proposal you've heard? A proposal from the College without Rules of Procedure, a proposal from the council you've received. First, what is a college is adopted, and then we'll discuss it one by one. Who's against it? Thank you. Of the 25 present - 21 is for, there is no one against. This proposal has been adopted. I understand that Mr Špirić withdrew the proposal for a discussion on the analysis of the work of the Independent Media Commission for technical reasons, to meet the requirement of seven days from the maturity of the material for the next session. In addition, Mr Špirić suggested that, however, the Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives be on the agenda today. Please, who is in favour of the motion to remain a point, that is, on the agenda is also the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives. Who's in? - Who's against discussing the Rules of Procedure on today's agenda? Four was in, 11 against. The proposal did not receive the required majority and should not be voted on by entities. Other proposals on the agenda are, for reasons of failure to meet the conditions for putting the agenda on the agenda, with a record finding that this is being updated again and being prepared for the next session, and I don't think there's any need to put it to the vote. Proposal for an SDP election law. Let me see what this is about. We're going to have a few minutes to consult on what's going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5182	I ask respected colleagues to take the minutes from the 17th session and read the extension of the 17th session, I said, held on February 29, 2000, as it stands with me. Under 2nd, that the draft electoral law (proposer of the SDP Club) has received the necessary majority and can serve as a basis for making the proposal. The procedure referred to the proposal and it exists. Therefore, we can today, and we will accept from the SDP, although there is not much logic, to vote on the draft electoral law, on the draft of the HDZ Club, and that, if voted, and he comes into the process in the form of a proposal, our law in the form of a proposal, we insist on going first, because first and enters the procedure, means, in the form of a proposal. Please, we also accept this as a compromise, not to hold back the matter, although it doesn't make any sense that two draft laws have passed parallel procedure and are going parallel to the form of a proposal, etc. However, the situation is what it is. I'm asking you to read the record, here, it says here. That's what it stands for.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5183	Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5184	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think Mr. Divković's proposal stands, because what he's talking about is a continuation of the 17th session, under the 2nd, that the draft of the electoral law, the proposer of the SDP's club, has received the necessary majority, and can serve as a basis for making the proposal. This is what we discussed, the first item of the 18th session was a statement by entities, and this law fell. It was, so we were just going, at the 18th session we spent the entire vote. At this first session, it was nine for. When we repeated the vote, there were now 11 total favours, of which RS 1 is against 11, and of the Federation of BiH, the stenogram stands against 5. So the first round didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5185	At the 18th session, the vote was completed, and by entities did not get the required majority. In the second part of the vote, the proposal was not adopted and that is what we have clarified. Thank you. As far as the agenda is concerned, we've adopted the agenda and we're going to work on points, as adopted. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from 16th and 17th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives text you received. We'll discuss both at once and at the same time, and please, is there any objections to the record? As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a hearing and I'm putting the motions of the record from 16th and 17th session to adoption. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5186	I'd really like to ask you not to be deluded with your records anymore. Once upon my insistence, we agreed, we all agreed that we would not begin the next session until we had no minutes from the previous session. We're now adopting two protocols, that's one thing. It's just been said that things aren't right, things aren't exactly from this report at the 17th session, and it turns out we're going to vote on it. Let me get this confusion, I don't remember all the details, but I know that no draft has received most of them, but I really don't remember the details, but I'm sure no draft has received most of them. Let me get this straight. Looks like we'll vote for the record. I can't vote for the record because of that fact that's very important, everything else may even be secondary. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5187	We have, indeed, the conclusion, but to seek to adopt the minutes of the previous session, if technically possible. The second thing, the 18th session record and the 16th and 17 records are complementary, because at the 18th session this dilemma was clarified. The only thing we can do is I would suggest that we adopt the record today at 16, and 17 and 10 18, leave those records at the same time, because they're connected and they end the questions, if that's okay with you. For the next session, adoption 17 and 18 will be left. Sit down, and today, let's get to the record from the 16th session. Note to the record of the 16th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5188	I have already said this, in the 16-session paper, on page 7, where there is talk of how many people voted, MPs for the draft electoral law of the SDP group, which is said to be 12, against 11 and 3 abstentions. It also nabrojati the names of the MPs, which shows that 12 is against and 12 is against, and not 11 is against what the record says, to bring it together. There are 12 names listed, and number 11.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5189	Thank you, with this observation and the need for technical correction, I would like to put the minutes of the 16th session. Who's in favor of adopting a 16th-session record? Who's against it? Of the 25 present, 21 for, versus 3, so, the record from the 16th session was adopted. We leave a statement on the 17th and 18th session for the next session, for the following reasons. Ad.2. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on: (a) Proposal for a Law on Public Ijustice (b) Draft of Election Law of BiH, Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ BiH Report from the Commission's session on the effort to reach agreement you have received. You've received a report. I remind you that the proposal for a law on public papers, in the last session, was given to the majority, but did not get the necessary entity majority. An attempt to achieve consent has been made. No consent has been reached. You have, as I said, received, now access to the second round of voting in which, I remind you, most of those present are required, provided there are no one-thirds, or two-thirds of the MPs from an entity against. The condition is that the majority of those present vote, with the same condition that two-thirds of the elected MPs should not be opposed from one of the entities. So, first of all, who is for this proposal of the Law on Public Corrections? Of the 25 present, the vote was 10. Therefore, the proposal did not receive the necessary majority of those present. We can spend it on entities. Of the 25 - 10 audiences present, is it in favor? Who's against it, please? Of those present, 25 – 10 is for, against 14 – 1 is abstention, and it is not counted. The total number by is less than the number against, therefore, there are no conditions and we don't have to take a second step of the second round or implement it. The proposal hasn't been adopted. c) Draft election law of BiH, proposed by the HDZ Parliament Club, the same situation. You have received a report from the Commission on the effort to reach agreement, we approach the second round of voting, the same proposition. I ask the 11 MPs present, who is the draft election law of BiH, proposed by the BiH MPs' Club, draft. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Of the 25 present – 11 voted against 14, therefore most of the votes present were not required for and the proposal, or draft, was not adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm not saying this for us here, because you know it, and you saw it, I just want to say it. Now it doesn't matter whether we go to Europe or not. We don't need an election law, and we don't need a law on public papers. I want this to stay in the stenogram, so that we know, because we have a lot of stories on similar occasions, so good luck to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5191	Rasim Kadić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5192	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to rephrase to Mr. Banjac, although he did not specifically mention me, then there is a discussion, I would ask Mr. Chairman to take a word of comment on the vote. Here we can't vote on some law, whatever it's called, politically qualified, the way Mr. Banjac did it. The fact that no electoral law has been adopted, the HDZ or the Law on Public Corrections, the second Proposer, does not mean that Parliament has determined that it does not need the Electoral Law or that it does not need the Law on Public Corrections. On the basis of the legal and procedure of the established vote, Parliament has determined that it does not want and that such laws do not have a majority in this House, not that it does not need those laws. I hope that from these results of the vote today, we can all together, and we will probably learn lessons about what we need, what we need and what laws can pass in the House of Representatives, or in the Parliament of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5193	And it's democracy and a desire to take away a word because it's called democracy and I accept it. But I would ask the honourable MP Kadić to be consistent in his efforts to take away his words, and I agree with his attitude to see today what laws we need to pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5194	I, however, call on us to refrain from political qualifications in the way of voting, because this is a question of the integrity and rights of every MP. This concludes the second item of the agenda. Ad.3. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Framework Law on the privatisation of companies and banks, MP Suad Muminagić has već been said that for known reasons, and in the current circumstances, the Council of Ministers of BiH has not made clear on this proposal. The Constitutional Commission, too, did not consider this 12 for those reasons, I call on the motion that, if there is a need, that a brief, introductory exposure, and then we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5195	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, at the initiative of the Office of the High Representative, I have decided to propose to this House a Law amending and supplementing the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in BiH. As you know, in July of '98, the High Representative adopted on the provisional basis the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in BiH, and the law was confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in this session, or adopted in July 1999. As far as I know, the entity laws that regulate the matter of privatisation are in line with this Framework Law. However, no restitution laws have been passed. The Framework Law on Restitution, which would regulate the basic principles of restitution throughout BiH, and which should precede entity laws on restitution, has been preparing for a long time in the BiH Council of Ministers. In the form of a predicate, it was also sent to parliament for debate, but, as you know, we have not discussed it yet. I mean, it's not particularly important to stress that these two processes, privatisations and restitutions, are closely connected and have a significant impact on each other. Undefined rights and obligations based on restitution and their carriers, which are largely undefined, are largely holding back the privatisation process. As the privatisation process is already under way, potential investors are, among other things, discouraged to participate in it, since they do not have a clear situation ahead of them on any obligations that could arise for them after the Law on Restitution. Given the long-term situation with the BiH Council of Ministers, there is little chance that the Framework Law on Restitution could be passed soon. In order to overcome such a situation and eliminate the uncertainty arising from the ignorance of obligations, based on the restitution for all investors, in co-operation with the department, the OHR Economic Department, we opted for a shorter path, i.e. that in the existing Framework Law on the privatisation of enterprises and banks we propose to install the most necessary solutions on restitution that could help the privatisation process give greater effects. Basically, solutions are proposed to exclude the possibility of natural restitution of businesses and banks that are privatised, including land, property and buildings, the need for their current and future performance of businesses, while at the same time establishing that the competent authorities are obliged to provide adequate compensation to those who have the right under the law based on restitution, i.e., which will have rights under the law based on restitution. In this way, potential investors would, on the one hand, be protected from unforeseen obligations, and on the other hand, it would be clearly defined that these obligations are obliged to be borne by authorities implementing privatisation, assuming, from the privatisation of those funds, which are made on the basis of privatisation, or by some other means, if they have them. I expect you'll have an understanding of these intentions and support us in this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5196	I'm opening a debate. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5197	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've seen a lot of this proposal, and I've watched, or should I say, read some of the framework elements of the Restitution Act. Compared to the Privatisation Framework Act, comparing the laws on restitution that are being done in entities and which have already come to an end, by adopting these two members, we would mix and define a lot in an inadequate way. The restitution laws, which are proposed, are far more extensive and provide a series of elements and definitions of what alienated property is, in what way, in which period and what compensation has been made to make some kind of fair compensation or real compensation. To accept a amendment like this and put it into a law where it doesn't belong, I think it's unacceptable, that it's improvisation and I'm against these amendments for it and I'm going to vote, really, against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5198	I, as far as I can tell, are no longer in the debate, and I suggest we make a statement on the proposal for this law. I call on the present MPs to declare by raising hands who the amendment of the Amendment Law and the additions of the Framework Law on the privatisation of companies and banks is, by proposing MP Suada Muminagić. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 23 MPs present – 9 said to – 12 against, therefore there is no required majority for and should not be voted on by entities, the proposal was not adopted. Ad.4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act You have received the text of the law in good time, that is the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I call on the chairman of the Finance Commission to state the position of the Commission, or the representative of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5199	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, our Working Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs had today, after a long time, a sufficient number present to hold the third session and discuss these materials, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act and on the BiH Customs Tariff. We, unfortunately, had no one in front of the promoter at the session, so the Commission feels that we could not have had a more quality discussion, but we have respected the arguments from the argument that this is an important substance and therefore we have proposed, with the consent of four MPs, and one that was not in favour of such a position, that, however, these two drafts go into the procedure. You remember that we were reviewing the information on the application of the BiH Customs Policy Act, that at that time we said that there were no cca 20 sublaws to be passed by the Commission within 30 days, so that was to be done by the end of '98. A year. Now, if this job is already being done, then it was normal to say something about why and when sublegal acts would be passed, so that this matter would be easier to apply in practice. However, the Commission agrees that this is going into further procedure, but we hope that in the meantime we will have an opportunity to talk to the motionary and to clarify all the issues that are problematic in practice. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5200	I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5201	Ladies and gentlemen, we have two very important legal acts in front of us, which have a significant impact on the development of BiH on the one hand, and, on the other hand, on adapting to standards in the world, so that BiH can join the WTO and other trade associations and organisations. We have received one material called the Law amending the Customs Policy Act, it certainly has elements of customs policy, but it is also full of various procedures, norms, so that it is one, I would say, perhaps a little rough, gemisht, which defines both customs policy and procedure, and my colleague before me told me what was the obligation to do after that law. So every country, when it adopts one of these acts, has to take care of a number of the following elements, so it has to take care of development and what are the strategic directions of a country. It must look at what fiscal elements are in this area, which are social elements in this area and which are consumer protection elements. One very important question, which is quite unregulated with us, which is the issue of duty-free imports, which must be fully regulated, must be transparent and there must be no exceptions, or, let me say, some kind of persuasion, where some kind of illegal profit can be achieved. These are, in my opinion, some basic frameworks, elements in which customs policy must be taken into account and where, normally, we have to take care of the European Union standards, and especially about certain regulations, because, nevertheless, we depend heavily on our environment and we need to establish some reciprocal elements or relationships so that this law can be applied. Looking at this law, to go with remarks from members to members, I'd have a lot of objections. Some chapters have to stay, some chapters have to be regulated by sublegal acts, and what I've been asking a little more questions and thinking about, let me say, this law at customs, at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, as far as I know, that commission that works on that law is in Neum to regulate, or to say, establish a legal and other terminology, in order to purify that law and that it can come out here in a normal debate. I wasn't, if I were to look at all this, we could simply say: we're going to reject this law, there's no point in discussing it if it's not an account, but I think relations in this area are such that we have to be all alarmed so that this area is regulated as soon as possible and that based on what we're going to do here today, it's a public debate, that we get to the better law on customs policy, which is why I was also saying that this law is going to go into debate today and that, on the basis of this debate and the stenograms being delivered to the Commission so that we can, in a small number, have amendments to certain members that are now defined in this law. I'd love to talk about the Customs Policy Act, and I'm gonna take a special call about customs tariffs. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5202	As far as I can tell, there are no further charges, I suggest we adopt the next conclusion. That the proposed draft may be used as a basis for the preparation of the proposal and, of course, that today's debate on this draft be delivered to the applicant, which will be taken into account when the proposal is drawn up. Please, who's to make such a suggestion to plead by raising their hands, who's in favour? Who's against it? Of the 22 present – 19 for – abstention 2. Therefore, the proposal has received the required majority, but we will have to carry out a vote by entities, i.e. a draft. From the RS, who's in? From the Federation of BiH, who's in, please? I'm going to repeat again for the record so there won't be, of the 22 present, 19 were for and 3 were abstentions. The proposal received most of the participants. By entities. From the Federation of BiH for it was 11, it was a condition, it is more than a third of the Federation of BiH, from RS 8, also met the condition because it is more than a third. Therefore, this proposal concludes that this draft serves as the basis for making the proposal with the discussion presented. Ad.5. The draft law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act has also been given to you in writing, as well as the same report on the previous law, I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5203	This Law amending the Customs Tariff Act introduces significant reforms that we will only see when we have contributions in eight thousand and some items, because from these definitions given in these 7-8 members, little is seen. That's the most important thing, to say reform now, in the BiH economy as a whole. So a complex customs tariff is being introduced, so we have a percentage rate, we have a fixed rate per unit of measure. It introduces a seasonal tariff, etc., not to list in that area which has already been made and which are already in the finalisation. However, the height of the rate is becoming crucial. If we take some of the principles that it's set, that the height of the rate as a task is 0-25%, the question is is is, let me say, the right solution for this area. So a number of elements defined in the customs policy must be taken into account, as I said in the previous point of protection of domestic production, fiscal element, social element, consumer protection. Also, in the protection of domestic production, there is one development factor, where a number of errors that have been in the current tariff positions, and one has been led, I say, by a long-term procedure from the Chamber of Commerce, through the resolution ministries in entities and through a joint entity committee to bring together certain products that are very important to BiH, such as oil, medicines, etc. I suggest, on the basis of, let me say, what you can see, and from which you can't see the essence, one who doesn't know enough about that matter and cannot see the essence of the reform from what's here in front of us. We must have, in decision-making and decision-making, to say, finally, this law, a series of other elements and reports by the promoters so that we can accept the amendment of this law. 16 On the other hand, we must bring this into line with the EU as well, we must agree with both the WTO and other trade associations. We cannot be outside the world, but we must also look at some of our elements that depend on BiH's further development. Therefore, I would like to say, in addition to all those arguments that have been given to us there in addition to all those remarks concerning, mainly, the customs policy of the IMF, CAFAO, etc., that I do not list, which are significantly embedded, so we must have from these annexes certain reports and suggestions for this law to be applied. I can say one more thing, that on the basis of discussions in chambers of commerce, many businessmen are against a complex customs tariff or, to say the majority, because one of their views is quite clear, that on one unregulated market it is difficult to apply what we want, so there must be a number of other legal acts in one entity and here so that all of this can be applied as planned. I think we should vote on it as a draft with these remarks, that we have a clearer picture when we bring in, in fact, that we know what we're bringing in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5204	I have, since I am a member of this committee, I would have something to say, because I was against, in general, the draft of the law and amendments to customs policy and customs tariffs. Now I see that I was right, because my colleague Rakić brought me into the dilemma, to discuss customs tariffs, customs rates or only the order of products that are tariffd on customs tariffs, because it's some area that I know very much about. The truth is, the lack of documentation that we have led to this, my conclusion is that this should not go in the form of a draft. A lot of elements and factors affect all of this. As for the complex customs rate, I wouldn't even talk about it now, because I don't even know what the tariff is. There is a commission and there are people in charge and they had to be on today's commission, whether we invited them or not, but they had to tell us what this is proposed in the draft. If we don't know in the draft, how are we going to know in the proposal, because there's something hiding here, you're going to let me, through a practice of 29-year internship in that service, I'm, say, not in a position to know what it's about. I would ask that this home be made known as anyone who wishes, but I would really stop once, talk about stop corruption, stop this, stop that, the Customs Service is closely related to it, and also, in an undeveloped state like us, we need to know what we're looking for, what are our complex tariffs, what are our complex rates, what is something that will allow us to get BiH, by some preferences, what it belongs to, I really don't think it's good to discuss anything if we don't have people from the expert team who are verified to determine it together and to pass on what it is to the MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5205	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the proposing's efforts to improve the system, in the framework of customs policy and customs tariffs, as some, I would say, practical variations, but I think, although Mr Kurtović as foreign trade and economic relations minister may have been the most regular in today's meeting, I would say a key session, he is gone, and it seems to me that we have been denied the clarification of these problems. What about me, as a man who doesn't do this job, is causing a big dilemma, and I want to ask it in the form of a proposaler is the following. In Article 1 The Customs Tariff Act, i.e. in amendments and additions, is said to consist of a percentage per customs 17 value and, through or through an absolute cash amount, the customs rate referred to in Article 1(1) of this Article. I don't know if this is the happiest option that one member of the law can also stand "and" standing without us having a precise variant when using "i" and when using "or". This is an extremely large question, which is not even explained by this member of the law, and when it is added to that by what Mr Rakić has warned, that there is no accompanying material and negotiations regarding what will be a list, or tariff, then it leaves me with a certain amount of reserves under this law, which I might, perhaps, otherwise. I support the adoption and work on the draft of this law, but I would strongly support Mr Rakić's proposal for the competent services, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers, to substantiate the real ones – a concrete analysis in which the implementation of the Customs Tariff Act will go, what the Council of Ministers wants to achieve with the implementation of the Customs Tariff Act through the work of working groups that will determine the rates, what it will achieve in terms of compatibility with the IMF's views, and how it will refer to internal Bosnian Herzegovina's resources, i.e. to protect domestic production. I know that this is a very, very big issue, the development issue of BiH, and it seems to me that this House of BiH, or this House, should not be alone, I would say, a body that will vote on a law in which there is no single indicator of what is behind Article 1 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. I would like to support the work on the draft, i.e. the establishment of a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, and I would also like to be answered to the question of what it is, could there be a double version of the policy setting in the law. Whether there can be in one member of the law and the words "i" and "or" and when "i" is used, and when "or" is used, that is one big question. Secondly, to be provided to us, as representatives, but it implies, and before the draft law comes into the agenda, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e., the competent ministry, or the competent commissions that work, as we heard in Neum, should provide us with the basic elements of the objectives which are intended to be achieved by this law, i.e. these drafts of the law. Only on the basis of the objectives set out in the implementation of this law will we be able to commit ourselves to the Customs Tariff Act, or the Customs Policy Act, and we all believe that this is one of the most important substances.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5206	As far as I can tell, there's no record of a hearing, and I suggest the next conclusion. The draft is accepted as the basis for making the proposal, with all the comments and suggestions that you will provide to the BiH Council of Ministers to take them into account when making the proposal. Please let us plead by raising our hands.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5207	Given the importance of this matter and in view of the complexity of the issue, I believe that the requirements that Mr Rakić has pointed out more precisely from me on the objectives that are to be achieved in the implementation of such a law, i.e. establishing new customs rates, tariffs, etc. They could also be delivered to MPs before the proposal for this law is proposed, that is, the proposed Customs Policy Act. It can be separated. We need to get this before we can, based on one serious analysis, then we need to make a statement about the bill's proposals, and we don't have to and I don't have to plead not to get all the goals and laws for a single session. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5208	I think it was contained in this proposal, that all remarks and suggestions made in this debate were delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers and taken into account. To specify and to specify a little more, with the addition that the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers an analysis of the objectives, reasons and all the necessary aspects of this law before submitting the proposal to parliament. Thank you. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 24 people present, 21-against 3 voted in favour. Most of those present for and we have, apparently, the entity majority. This conclusion has been adopted by which this draft will serve as a basis for making proposals, with these additions in the discussion. Ad.6. Giving consent for ratification From a) to f) sub-point, the text of these agreements has been obtained on time. I'm opening a discussion at the same time about all the proposals for the agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5209	Dear fellow Members of the Presidency, honourable fellow Members, I have, in fact, only come to the attention of the first of this Convention, or the proposal for a decision to ratify the protocol on the prohibition and restriction of the use of mines of surprises and other means, so as not to quote further. From this material that I got, I see here already, in fact, that this is another protocol in '96. years signed. We have here, in fact, only a ratification of this protocol, but before I speak, I am interested in the answer to the question. Mr. Prlić here, perhaps he can give me an answer to the question, which is. It is not at all disputed that, in any case, it is necessary to strive not only here with us, but also wider to limit weapons in every way, but it is one situation that has been insolent to me, which is that the United States has been pushing, through international institutions, the adoption of a convention like this, which was adopted, and it is precisely the United States that did not want to sign a convention relating to this kind of conventional weaponry. I'm just curious about the answer to the question. I really only have the information two months ago, I don't know if maybe in the last two months the United States has signed this convention or not, so in that context, I'm asking Mr. Minister, if he has that information, to answer me. This is for a simple reason, because it is this country that, as a world-wide police officer, advocates thesis around the world, that I can have an atomic bomb, but no one else can have, and that's how it behaves, and in that context my question is raised.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5210	After the debate, we will hear the answers from the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. Is there anyone else who wants to take part in the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5211	I'm not an expert on the convention itself, and for this area, we're only in that diplomatic area following. It's probably not about this convention that's at stake here. You probably meant conventions to ban the use, storage and production of anti-infantry mines or so on. It's a process. It is true that the process, that BiH has joined it, that the agreement has been ratified, but that is not the word in this Convention. It is true that every convention enters into force when a number of 19 countries ratify this Convention and it is then started to apply. It is true that the United States did not join this convention, which we were particularly interested in. The reasons, in addition, were the situation relating to the situation between North and South Korea, which is the most concrete reason why the United States did not approach this Convention, but, in order to compensate for its non-cooperation, they increased the amount of funds aimed at the implementation of the objectives of this Convention, it is known that the destruction of anti-infantry funds and unexploded funds, killing mines, requires large resources, and in this respect the United States has allocated a significant part of the funds. It is known that, together with Slovenia, we have formed the so-called It's a demining fund. At the last session of Parliament, it was about this, and the principle is known, this is merely an illustration, that the American Congress has decided that every dollar of funds for these purposes will provide an additional dollar to $14 million a year. What you said is true, however, we have our responsibilities and we are such a country as we are towards the international community and I think it is better that BiH is within this concept and that it contributes in this way to this concept. I don't think what I just said will have a positive impact on your statement on this convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5212	Given that there are no reports, we have received a response, I am putting before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives a vote on our agreement on ratification of the following agreements: a) Protocol II, with the Convention on the Prohibition and Restriction of the Use of Certain Types of Classical Weapons, which may be considered to have excessive traumatic effects or to act without distinction in terms of objectives; b) Convention of International Labour Organisation No 105 on the Prohibition of Forced Labour; c) UN Framework Convention on Climate Change d) of the Agreement between BiH and the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of the activities of the Institute for Culture e) Agreement on Co-operation for the Prevention and Combat of Cross-border Crime f) of the Convention on Reconciliation and Arbitration under the KEBS I am asking MPs to make their hands known who agree to ratify those agreements. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Of the 25 present – 23 for, no, 2 abstentions, therefore, the predstavnički of Representatives voted to give consent to the ratification of those agreements. We don't have to by entities, because it's obvious that we have an entity majority. Ad.8. Guidelines for the European Union and the programme of measures and work activities to implement reforms in BiH with the conclusions of the BiH Presidency Does the rapporteur have here in front of the BiH Presidency? You got the text. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5213	I am speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as proposed by this act to the BiH Presidency, believing that this Action Programme, which you have received, is actually part of the correspondence with the requirements that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has so far had, and when it comes to the economic situation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, represents, perhaps for the first time, an attempt to actively contribute to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to issues relating to our position and when it comes to the economic situation and our relationship on European and Euro-Atlantic integrations. I'll try to be very brief. Our current relationship with the EU is next. We are users of huge EU aid, we have been since June '98. in the year following the adoption of the declaration in BiH, we set up a joint working group that was actually supposed to help BiH on the road to EU accession, as this is the goal of our foreign policy, established in a basic document regulating BiH's foreign policy. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been discussed in the so-called ... EU approaches which, above all, are under pressure and our diplomacy, but also because of the current situation in the region created by the crisis in the SRJ, resulted in a new approach, the Stability Pact, and the most important instrument of the Stability Pact, by offering a document called the Stability and Association Agreement, which the EU has offered for five countries in the region: R. Croatia, BiH, SRJ, Macedonia and Albania. The agreement, technically, may shorten integration time by about two years. In order to achieve this agreement, it is important to differ in relation to the existing practice of the Agreement on Trade and then the Association Agreement, it is necessary to build, in addition to meeting a set of other conditions, and to have a satisfactory study of similarity. I, as foreign minister, asked that this similarity study be built for BiH. In response, however, EU foreign ministers approved the so-called "EU foreign ministers". Road map, or a plan of measures that are important to implement in BiH, to make a study of similarity. Road maps you got. It consists of 18 measures in three areas, political measures, economic measures and steps in the area of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Accordingly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made this action programme, which the Bureau adopted after this session of 3.4, mentioned by Mr Lagumdžija, it was adopted on 4th, in fact, without discussion of the proposal as prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This program applies, above all, to the implementation of what the road map predicts, those 18 measures. You've got them here worked out. They start with political measures, electoral law, state service law, the joint secretariat in the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, measures necessary to implement in certain ministries, those measures that need to be done when it comes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to economic measures that may represent the heart of the overall demands. I think with this program, we can actually make partner relations and jointly realize a series of activities that are foreseen here. This morning, on the results so far and on this programme, I have informed Commissioner Kris... and High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy of the European Union Mr Havijer Solan, as well as some progress in certain areas provided for in this document. For example, the day after tomorrow is a working group meeting that prepares a document on this state service. 21 A competition law has already been made, however, the heart of the whole document is those political measures, electoral law and everything else that we have talked about so far and further, and I will ask for the help of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which, above all, refers to the formation of the internal market in BiH, so that both people and goods and services and capital can move freely. It is still not a situation in BiH. In such a situation, such a country cannot be integrated and cannot expect any shift when it comes to relations with the EU. We still have a situation where banks from one entity can't work in another entity, where those who have a residence in one can't be employed in another, and we see that in the English League they can play all 11 clubs that are from other European Union countries. We see that there is no freedom to move, yet, no goods, there has been harmonisation of tax systems, but it still does not work to a sufficient extent and there are still many barriers to the internal movement of goods and services, and without it it is not possible to take any steps from outside. We have also managed to achieve a unilateral reduction in the burden on BiH's exports to the EU market. A similar measure should soon be adopted by the US Congress, which would, in fact, create an opportunity to increase exports from BiH. Otherwise, at this point, our exports to the EU are only one fifth of what was before the war. A whole series of measures related to privatisation are important. At this point, in the region, 60% of the social product is provided by the private sector, the region of these five countries plus Bulgaria and Romania, while in BiH only 35%. In fact, this document and the BiH Presidency and the future Council of Ministers and Parliaments of both entities with their governments should be obliged to meet these measures that have been implemented here. Besides road maps, you can see that there are other new activities here when it comes to economics. It is foreseen to consider the basics of the industrial development strategy of both entities, which should, in fact, result in one strategy... development by 2006, which would also be the basis for entering the EU programme during the fiscal period of 2000. - 2006. The programme also includes certain new activities related to the Stability Pact. First of all, the anti-corruption initiative, you have that part of the measure, then the activities that are related to the so-called "Corruption Initiative". the investment compact, i.e. measures necessary to make the region attractive to foreign direct investment, and other measures resulting, in addition, from specific and other requirements of the IMF and the World Bank. The position is in the international community, especially in light of preparations for the next ministerial meeting of the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, that this programme should, in fact, be the basis of a document proposed to the ministerial conference. Otherwise, a short document is expected up to four pages with annexes, meaning a ministerial meeting at that level. This is, for example, the Madrid Conference, the Madrid Declaration or the Syntra Conference or the Bonaan Declaration, the programme of documents, which significantly define the pace of implementation of the Peace Agreement in BiH. What do I propose today? I propose that the BiH Parliament accept this document because it has already been accepted by the BiH presidency. (b) to establish an operational programme for that part of the obligations related to the BiH Parliament and to make a recommendation to entity parliaments, entity governments to do the same. 22 If we make a move in this, in the next few weeks, then it is quite realistic to expect that we can get so-called. a similarity study before the end of this year. Otherwise, because of this situation, the internal market, the failure of essential institutions and so on, we began to fall significantly behind in the region in relation to the situation we may have had a year ago. Macedonia has received a similarity study, which is relatively favourable for Macedonia and they are soon starting negotiations. A similarity study has also been developed for Albania, but it is not affirmative to this extent, it has shown that Albania still does not meet these essential conditions, and it is precisely because of these reasons that there has not been a study of similarity for BiH, although we have had a different view, because the European Commission has assessed that it would be detimulative for the BiH process to produce this similarity study, which would, in fact, show that BiH does not meet the basic conditions in this regard. The Republic of Croatia is in one intensive action, so-called the identification of facts, which should result in a similarity study and the start of negotiations on this association and co-operation agreement, while with Yugoslavia, the situation is more or less known to all of us here. I consider it the foreign minister and as your colleague here today, the representative, that this, perhaps, is the most important question that parliament needs to give its opinion on, is a question that actually opens up the perspective of life in these areas. Whether BiH exports will grow, don't take it as a demagogy, or the most important product from would be young experts, who actually don't see the perspective of life in these conditions. Certain scenarios of BiH's economic development have been mentioned over the next few years. Everyone knows that the situation, as you say, is very difficult and that it may be very difficult to find a way out of this situation. Our level of social product per capita is about a thousand dollars, which is half of what we had in the '90s. A year. Unlike 90, when we had $600 million surpluses, of course... considering that every republic had its own balance sheet position in then-Yugoslavia, we came into a situation to get out of that deficit, even '97. For years, they had the largest deficit in the balance of payments per capita. In one optimistic scenario, which provides for a fairly dynamic growth rate, it is projected, along with the provision of a $2.6 billion donor, that in 2004, the coverage of exports would be only 70%, and that income per capita would be around $1.600, which means that it would still be less than what we had in the 1990s, this shows extrapolation of trends in line with what the economy offers. However, all this seems optimistic unless appropriate reform procedures are undertaken already this year. Many will say that this is a pre-election year in which this speaker often serves to promote something and that, in fact, never a pre-election period is good for deep economic reforms. I think it is very important in this respect to find a consensus to continue economic reforms. If she skips this year, it'll be very difficult to make up for later. There may be some political gains for this party or for that party, but so much can be complicated by the overall economic situation that, in fact, anyone who takes over after the next election, the situation may be even more difficult than it is right now. For that reason, I believe that Parliament will seriously consider this document, give it support, supplement it, possibly, that, of course, is not a sacred letter. Many dates have, even some passed,... the date when it was adopted, but that, above all, it will contribute to the implementation of those tasks, which are objectively set before parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5214	Thank you, Minister Prlić. I'm opening a discussion on the document.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5215	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed fellow MPs, the esteemed presidency, Mr Minister, I would like, on this point of the agenda and the presentation of Mr Prlić, or the material that we have received, to say a few words and to propose the relevant conclusions, first of all, because I consider this point to be the agenda and what I am talking about now, perhaps not to use big words, but in any case this question, so this question then translated into a document, perhaps one of the most important issues being raised and raised before this meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I mean, we used to go very easily through similar documents, to remind you just how we sent a letter to the famous Lord Džonson, in which, they say, about six hours before the conclusion, we realized that we should sign a letter in which we took over the mass of obligations, which we probably took over because the Lord's letter is probably waiting. I think that this paper that is here before us, about it we practically have nothing to discuss, if we stand on our commitment to move towards BiH's Europeanisation, from the point of view of introducing European standards in BiH. The only question is what happens when the BiH Presidency adopts this, what if we adopt this, what do we do? In fact, you heard Mr Prlić, who has carefully elaborated several important issues from this domain, among other things, we have heard that the feasibility study or study... is a feasibility for opening negotiations, something that BiH has said that he cannot yet work. The first phase, called a similarity study, a feasibility study for entering European integration, is that we are told that we cannot do this, that there are no conditions or conditions for doing so. The comparisons, as we could hear here, Albania ended it. True, Albania didn't get a very good grade, but, look, it's over and it's got some grades. We still don't have the green light to do that. What we're adopting today, it's just, when we go over it, when we realize these guidelines, the appropriate measures, then there will be conditions for us to do what Albania has already done. We need to know that. I think, Mr. Jahić, we don't all know that, and I don't think the BiH public knows that. Let me be very specific. This Parliament and you, Mr. Jahić, that you throw while I speak, you don't act like you know it. You can replicate later, but, in any case, your throwing says you don't know how to behave according to what you claim to know. We have also heard that Macedonia has ended this and is heading towards phase II. It's phase II, just to remind those who know and distract the public. Phase II is a phase that Mr. Minister told us is a phase when it comes to stability and accession. In Phase II, Bulgaria and Romania are already in place. Phase II in the negotiation of a trade agreement, Bulgaria and Rumunija have already opened it, followed by an association agreement where they are not yet. We're so far from all of them. 24 Croatia, to remind us, was in a situation until the end of last year where we, even behind us, were. Croatia was behind us. Thanks to the changes that were in Croatia, Croatia has skipped, practically, what we are doing and entered, practically, behind the physiology. I want to draw attention to what Mr. Prlić said and I appreciate the extraordinary efforts of Mr. Minister and Ministry to at least in this form get the information we received, but it is evident that Mr. Minister Prlić is the foreign minister, because he is a very diplomatic dictionary, and he asked for a word when he wanted to describe this situation, and then he said, quote him: "The situation is very difficult, economical, and he told us, if we are going optimistic, then in 2000 we will come to 70% coverage of imports by export." Mr. Prlić didn't say what he knew well, but he probably didn't think he should, you know, now he's the one. Last year, that percentage was 20%. Those 70% that aren't what we need, which we're going to have in 2004, is now 20%. Last year, the coverage of imports was 20% of our exports. In this year, there's an optimistic variant that it could be close to 30%. I would like to suggest, Mr. Chairman, firstly that we, in a certain way, conclude what the BiH Presidency has concluded, only in our capacity. You have exactly three conclusions here, so I don't quote them right now. 1. The BiH presidency supports, we support. 2. The BiH presidency is demanding that BiH institutions and entities carry out those obligations within the scheduled deadlines, and we conclude that, and parliament concludes that. 3. The BiH presidency will discuss the implementation of these measures every two months. I suggest we conclude that Parliament will do so every two months. 4. It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to monitor and co-ordinate activities to implement the envisaged measures and to report on it by the BiH Presidency, to formulate it, to report to the BiH Parliament. Supporting the Ministers' proposal to make, as he says, an operational programme, I think it would be very good if we did not just create an operational programme for ourselves, but to task the Foreign Ministry to make a recommendation of a plan or programme to implement, as I say, a preparation for the EU guidelines' implementation plan, namely to implement a recommendation on how to implement the measures BiH should take to prepare for the launch of a feasibility study in entities. Because, I fear, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to prepare for entities what the international community is looking for, because otherwise we will be in a position for entities to interpret what the European Union is asking for, so that entities do not interpret what the European Union is looking for, I suggest that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make an appropriate recommendation or instruction on what it means, so let the entity governments make appropriate papers. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to express my satisfaction that this material has come before us and I would like to express the full support of the SDP Parliament Club, without delay, of the full implementation of the guidelines given here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5216	After the presentation of Mr. Minister and the discussion of fellow MP Lagumdžija, I was under the impression that any BiH resident, who would object to this, and especially an MP, would at least know nothing about this or that is my term that it is not in his 25th sanity. Although I understood it that way, I will, however, answer my word to say why I will not vote for these BiH presidency conclusions and note that this is my personal position, neither my party nor my other colleagues from the RS. Right now, I'm not voting for this because, as my colleague Lagumdžija said, I have to do what I've been doing here so far, he said for himself, so I say for myself. Simply, if I voted against the Border Service Act at one of the PSBiH House meetings, it would be hypocritical to vote now that by this deadline and that service must be implemented, or if I voted at one of our sessions against the introduction of unique passports, when we have already settled it, I also believe that it would be hypocritical of me to vote now to do so in BiH by the end of 2000. I'm expressing my regret that I'm going to have to vote against this because I don't know exactly, I'm going to arbitraryly say, for more than 90% of these conclusions, I'm in favour and I would vote yes. But I can't really vote for what I haven't changed my mind about, and what I used to vote against here. There, that's my explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5217	Dear colleagues, at this point in the agenda, I realized that ours, first of all, is the task of getting to know more about BiH's conclusions here and through a kind of discussion since 6.4.2000. However, when I read it before last session, it was indeed absolutely clear to me what the results of the vote would be, when we voted in last session on the adoption of the law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, why I, as a man, advocated myself, but in principle, as a man, I explained it at the last session and voted against the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, as it was voted. Also, I can't say some things here, which is that for this speaker, very lightly, you know, we say and make some promises, but when we have to solve the problem by problem, then it turns out it's a lot harder than just demagoguely to come forward here and make a statement. The best evidence for this is, after all, the vote on today's draft electoral law, which was proposed by the HDZ MEPs' Club, in the end, it was not just today. Serbian MPs voted and supported, in fact, and the first draft of the OHR Election Law draft, as we have today supported, indeed, and I believe and am deeply convinced that it was a very high-quality draft of the election law, proposed by the HDZ Parliament Club. I am, indeed, sorry, and I expected other MPs to support it, too, so, my Bog, we would probably, in further work through the amendments, probably find some common language and bring that legal framework, or at least prepare it for adoption. However, there is obviously no political will for it. It's the same situation, I have a feeling, and it's going to be with this conclusion. It is not at all a problem for certain activities to be taken, to come up with this situation that speaks of similarity for the conclusion of an agreement between the EU and BiH. However, I am deeply concerned about one thing, and that is, at least so indicated, the EU guidelines that BiH should take to prepare this feasibility study, as indicated, so among other things, there are some things that we have already discussed and decidently expressed our views here. I'm here, in that context, to make two examples. The first example is, literally, the adoption of a unique passport here. What does a unique passport mean? So we have a BiH passport. Does that mean a unique passport only when it comes to the first cover where my entity name stands, if that's it, then I'll be absolutely against it. I think that's all I know for what reason I'm against it, because I explained it in X. 26 However, it is indicative of item 12 on pages 1, 2, 3 of this study. Here are the substandards, listed for the next one. It is necessary for RS to abolish its law on standards that do not comply with European standards, EU standards, that is not the problem. It is not a problem if, indeed, individual RS legislation does not comply with EU standards to bring it into line. However, there is a very indicative sentence in front of this sentence where it stands "the founding of a single bh. the Institute of Standards’. This is just another piece of evidence, what I've been saying all along, that in all possible fields, it wants to pass such a set of legal regulations that would lead to unitaryisation of BiH. If that were not the case, then it would be perfectly logical to say here that RS will abolish its standards law or bring a new one that will comply with EU standards. In that context, I would not go further into detail, but, in that context, I had to state my position here and present a deep reserve for such materials, especially seeing that such conclusions, apparently, were supported by the president in the joint BiH presidency from the RS. In any case, I, as an MP, absolutely cannot stand behind these conclusions, and in that context, I have absolutely demonstrated reserves and in any case I think differently from my predecessor here who discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5218	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in connection with this document, the number of activities, a document adopted by the BiH presidency and prepared by the foreign ministry, there will likely be more public debates in BiH. I can say that this seems to be the most important document in BiH right now. The path to European integration flows leads through Bosnian integration flows. In this respect, I fully support any concrete measure that will show that in BiH, it can be faster and better. Especially important, and somehow everything seems to be important at this point, I think a package of economic measures in BiH, and in this respect, I would strongly support those political initiatives that are going towards forgetting the war political past and looking at the integrated economic future of BiH. An hour ago, in the Proposal for a Law on Restitution, i.e. amending the Law on Privatisation, Mrs Suada Muminagić offered such an amendment, which seems to me to be an attempt to end the '45 war. A year. We must be aware that we are all moving towards BiH together, which must meet certain standards within the BiH state, so that it can even discuss further steps towards EU integration. Of course, like many other BiH citizens, I am disappointed that we are late and relatively behind on other countries of the region and that we are behind on where we were a year ago. It is crucial, I think, that Mr Prlić's message on the need for political consensus on the necessary steps for BiH to take this path, which is indicated in these points. Ensuring a political consensus on the implementation of the document adopted by the BiH presidency, I consider the key political stance at this time 27, and therefore I call, as an MP in this House, and all other parliaments, at all levels, to take this document very seriously and to take their commitments. In my proposal for conclusions, however, I believe that there should be a decadent conclusion on which we will form, i.e. empowering the College to determine the dynamics and deadlines for meeting the conditions that stand exclusively in front of the BiH House of Representatives, i.e. the BiH Parliament. There are obligations that are ours alone. I think it must be a special item in meeting these conditions. As far as the other conditions are concerned, I would like to encourage, as a representative, that is, an MP in this House, all those political forces, institutions, to go through progress in BiH, because it seems too divided and too little feeling about the common interests of the BiH state. We rejected the law a year ago, and maybe it's a paradox that it's good, not one group has adopted the Law on Inter-entity Crime, Smuggling, etc., and today we've adopted the Convention on Accession, that is, the Convention on the Prevention of Cross-border Crime. It seems to me that today we have shown in the best way that we want to build a BiH state, as a very complex community, and in this respect, I appreciate the possible fears of gentlemen who spoke from the RS, but I would like to put all of us together in one possible dimension. This is the dimension in which BiH will look from the 2010 position, not from the 1995 or 2000 position. I want more from BiH than it may be, at this point, optimistic to watch when it comes to its future. What is absolutely certain, we must know, we cannot deceive the European Union in any way. The EU will establish lists, principles, criteria and standards that we will have to meet. The sooner we fill them, the better it'll be for us and our kids. Anyone we don't meet, they'll probably come at us with interest. I want to publicly say that I support the document, support the efforts of the Foreign Ministry, or the BiH Presidency, as the authority that adopted this document, and I support the conclusions, with the inference that the College of the House of Representatives can establish the dynamics of realising the exclusive competences involved in this House of Representatives, and I am convinced that this document, in particular in the economic aspect of the document, could be the point of new political integration in BiH and the point of sobering BiH citizens to the necessary changes, without fear of talking about unitaryisations, divisions, about unity or decentralisation, etc. We must have the feeling that we're headed a path without which we have no life. On that road, we'll probably correct each other, but it's important that we know that this is the way we're going and I urge you once again to accept the document and that, of course, as much as it is in our power to invite others to work on realising this document. In this regard, I think it might be good to establish some forms that have not been common until now, and, let's say, that's this detail. I don't remember ever being the former co-chairman, that they ever had a working agreement with the prime ministers of two entity governments, ever. The presidents of the entity and state parliament never sat at one table. We never had the forms of communication that are common in one country because they are simply complementary. There are obligations of entities, there are obligations of the state, there are obligations of the government. It seems to me that we would have to get rid of the fear of integration, we would have to get rid of the fear that integration is in the beginning of unitaryism and we would have to be more free, I think, in terms of creating our own and better future. I think this document gives everyone a chance for the better, and I am convinced that its implementation will be a strategic response from BiH to 28 whether we want to live better or even for Albania, which we have, mainly, from that second period. But others are growing, and unfortunately, we're coughing. I'd like us to grow faster than others, and I'm sure we have the strength to do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5219	Dear Presidency, I would like to say that it is not in the right way to replicate from anyone's place, but also, Mr Lagumdžija must know that at least I sometimes find it very annoying to try, at all costs, for us here, MEPs in the PSBiH House, to teach a lesson about certain things that are completely familiar, as if none of us knows what Europe is, what the EU is, what faasiness is and what is... and some similar concepts. That is the basic reason why I reacted in one way that I agree is not appropriate, but I would also ask Mr Lagumdžija to be just as zealous in sanctioning similar phenomena that come from the ranks of his political party, which are not so rare. I want to give full support to this act. I think that a very high quality work, with, of course, the finding that many of these areas are likely to be in one detailed work in certain resolutions, first of all, the conditions for a sustainable return, I think it takes far more detailed, more systematic explanation and that, in any case, instead of what is mentioned here in point 2, under this Chapter III, “adequately provide and equip the personnel for municipal bodies for residential issues and the department of the RS Ministry and provide adequate resources for temporary accommodation”, one, perhaps in general, but, in any case, a comprehensive formulation in terms of the need to ensure all assumptions for the comprehensive implementation of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. There was one more adequate formulation, as it is not only these two points that establish the necessary conditions for a sustainable return to BiH. Finally, I would like to support all these proposals concerning the finalisation of our debate and the conclusions that the House of Representatives should adopt, as proposed by Mr Prlić, Mr Lagumdžija and Mr Kadić, with my proposal that the new Council of Ministers' meeting, which should be established as soon as possible, undertakes that within about a month after the constitution, give us information on the realisation of all these tasks and the measures that are listed here, of course, as far as possible, and I think it is very important that we, let's say, not two months after the constitution, as the BiH Presidency has determined, but, if possible, monitor the implementation of all these measures monthly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5220	Nikola Špirić, then one hour break at the request of Mrs Rađević, or for lunch.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5221	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that, in any case, it's a good thing that we have a document like this in front of us. I want to make it clear that the question is now being asked, I think it is difficult for us to discuss the EU guidelines that have been adopted. It would be good for parliament to withdraw its obligations from those guidelines and adopt them. That would be the active role of this parliament according to those guidelines. I think that even this formulation of the presidency's conclusions, 2nd should read: "The BiH 29 presidency stands at the point of view that the relevant BiH institutions and entities should implement those obligations within the deadline". The BiH presidency cannot be put above us, asking us because there is no such authority. She thinks these obligations should be realized. The parliament's active position is to pull out what it has to do for itself, and there's a tax-listed list of what it should be. Election law, Civil Service Act, Parliamentary Assembly, Single Passport, State Border Service. What our debate about these documents will be, it's another pair of freaks. Look, no one here argues that every MP must have an active position on every legal project. God Bog we've had more understanding of the economic situation in which BiH is located before now, then there would be more legal projects adopted. I think, as far as economic reforms are concerned, macroeconomic balances, the abolition of the Institute of Payments, the reform of the tax system, privatisation, etc., that is the necessity in which we should not be driven by the EU. How can we get out of this actively? To give the College an order to withdraw from what is here, to withdraw Parliament's obligations and to install them in the work plan of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council per month, that would be our active response to this document. There's still no conflict between us, and we haven't reached the agenda yet. Whether it will be a unique passport, whether it will be one way or the other, whether it will be a single institute for BiH standards, assuming that RS meets its standards with EU standards, it is not all the same. The BiH Standards Institute can be located in Banja Luka, can be found in Mostar. We need to open an active dialogue on all these things, and the results of such a debate are still early to talk, but I, here, suggest this. My proposal is for our relationship with this to be, to be in charge of the College to draw out from these guidelines the obligations of the Parliamentary Council of BiH. That we do not deal with the obligations of the BiH Presidency, the obligations of the BiH Council of Ministers, etc., but with the own obligations that arise from this and that we simply incollect it in our work for 2000, and it will be our best contribution to actively enter into the realization of certain things.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5222	I'm taking a break now for an hour. Three o'clock, we move on. We have a quorum, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We are continuing the debate on point 8. Anybody got a call?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5223	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think, too, that we have an important document in front of us, which, of course, is not a document of this House of Representatives, but a document made by the BiH Presidency and I want to say, although I am not in certain areas of expertise to give, to say, expert assessments of this programme, but I would like to see what it was done on, except for these guidelines, this programme. I expected that this programme would be preceded by one thorough analysis in all three areas, both in policy and economy and in the field of democracy and in the protection of human rights, because after one comprehensive analysis, obviously, some other things would find a place in this programme. These measures, especially in the economic sphere, are measures to revive the economy, measures to attract foreign investment in BiH, then, encouraging measures to create new jobs, etc. 30 What I particularly think is important, and it is not in this programme, and it may not be necessary, but I, for example, think that it should, which is the harmonisation of entity legislation, entity legislation, in fact, in areas that make it difficult or impossible to implement reforms in BiH, i.e., measures that BiH should take to prepare for a feasibility study. In particular, what I would like to draw from the political part, to say the attention, is the performance of some MPs, which I think, from probably their political initiatives, use the terminology and strong messages on the principle of "good for BiH, that's me", and anyone who doesn't think like me, he is not only my opponent but he's also an opponent of BiH. First of all, I would like to draw attention to all those who make one mistake in this way, because we are all here because we believe that we can and should give our contribution to and development of BiH and the development of its entities. I don't think there's any MP here who intends to obstruct and destructive actions makes things difficult in BiH anyway. That's why I don't like it, but I don't even have to like it, after all, why I should like what someone thinks, but I don't like the appearance of some people who, by documents, say, in this example the BiH Presidency gives full support, not to slow down anything that says there, but by raising it to one sphere that would have, about like this, it's something that's even divinely sent, and in other conditions the documents of these are declaring unprofessional, unargumented, unacceptable, and it's totally unacceptable. What I don't think is good is going from one extreme to another. So, I think the agenda point we're discussing is not the point we need to plead on, this is the BiH presidency programme. We today need to conclude that, in line with the conclusions of the BiH Presidency, the PSBiH House of Representatives obliges the College to propose a programme of measures and activities in its jurisdiction by 1 May of this year at the latest for the implementation of reforms in BiH. Such a programme of measures and activities must become an integral part of our work programme and we must monitor the realization of our programme so adopted. Of course, in this programme, which is by the BiH Presidency, there is much that can become an integral part of our programme, but there is also a good part of it that exceeds our competences, goes into the sphere of entity competence or some other BiH institutions and bodies. I ask you to consider this my contribution to today's debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5224	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. Here, I'll dare suggest you, in the spirit of what we've considered. The House of Representatives considered and supported the European Union guidelines BiH should take to implement measures and activities to implement reforms in BiH. The House of Representatives will adopt its own programme by 1 May 2000 and monitor its implementation every two months, a proposal for a conclusion on this agenda point. 31 I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5225	This agenda item is set as set. Is it our jurisdiction, gentlemen, that we adopt or do not adopt the BiH Presidency programme? The BiH presidency is an independent, legitimate body whose programme we can support, but in no way can we adopt it or not. To get termologically determined according to the conclusion in that section. I'm asking termologically. Absolutely, I'm on it, but just termologically.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5226	This is a proposal for a conclusion, Mr. Banjac, and I think you're quite in line with that...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5227	Am I a member of the College?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5228	Sure. Considered and supported. He's just been thinking and...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5229	I received knowledge before thinking and supported it. Okay, but that's not it, finesse...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5230	Can we put this conclusion to the vote? Who's in favour, to support the proposal? Who's against it? One vote against. Out of 25 MPs, 21 were for and 1 against. Therefore, I find that this conclusion has been adopted. Thank you very much. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Ad.9. Member of the Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5231	MPs and MPs, I would like to ask one practical question, and it concerns the realization of one of the conclusions of the New York Declaration and the return of displaced and refugees. The conclusion is that at the state level, that one joint commission is being formed from both entities with representatives of the international community and that it is meeting regularly, so it was time to submit a report on what they have done on March 1st 2000. But so far, nothing has been done. In order for him to say something closer, it is the commission's duty to prepare 32 and to advocate the return of refugees to urban areas. The main centres that are now apostrophe and are problematic are Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar. I would ask nicely, I have filed a written request even earlier, or I have asked a question, and nothing has been answered to this day, this time I use it orally, and I would ask you to really inform me what has been done on this matter so far and whether this commission has been formed or not at all, and if so, what has it done so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5232	My koleginica and colleagues, I'd like to ask two questions. First, what about the answer to the question I asked some months ago and a few days ago, which is about pensions for persons who received pensions from the Republic of Croatia. We have a large number of those faces in BiH. I know that in RS they did not exercise their right at all, and in the Federation of BiH they partially realised and then stopped exercising that right. Why don't you answer that question, I think you should answer that. If the problem is to establish co-operation with the Republic of Croatia in that part, it should be regulated. I ask you to answer that question as soon as possible, that's the first. So an updated answer to the previously asked question. And the second question, why is the law on refugees and displaced persons not respected, may not be the correct name of the law now, which is the law on refugees and displaced persons in BiH, which we have brought here, and why this law is not respected in the part where the person has the right to temporary accommodation, so that he can provide other people's property, and thus enable the realisation of the rights of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. I think that's one of the very, very acute issues and problems in BiH, and I'm asking you to answer me why it's not being realized in entities? Of course, entities are responsible for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-19-0.u5233	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? There isn't. Can we close this session? You will be informed of the next session in good time. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 3:30.
