ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5567	An invitation to enter the hall, unfortunately we don't even have a far-off quorum. We agreed that the three of us should call the MPs and give them a written proposal to be accurate at the sessions from now on. If we don't get together in half an hour at the quorum, we'll interrupt the session. Please be called present.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5568	Alagić Raifa Bičakčić Edhem Raščić Rijad – present Čaršimamović Tarik Kulović Hamdija Filipović Mediha Genjac Halic Jahić Adnan Rasim Kadić Neimarlija Hilmo Oručević Dragan- he resigned Pamuk Bogičević Bogić Haris Spahić Ibrahim Božičević Lagumdžija Zlatko Mijačević Ivo Muminagić Suad – official road Divković Ivo Špirić Nikola – there is not there Đedović Ibrahim – there is Rađević Desanka – there is a Jovanović that Zovko Ljubomir – absent Deretić Branislav – Lhotak – there is Skopljak Pero – there is Rakić Mara – there is Banjac Milenko – there is an announcement that will be an hour late Bećašić Smail Munira Karić there is not a town of Perkanović Radar – there is not Tuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5569	Do we have a quorum?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5570	Rasim Kadić, come. 21, so we don't have a quorum yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5571	That it will be conveyed to those who are not here, that we really must strengthen discipline, if we care about this work. The people chose us to work here, not to be late or obstruct. Now you need the number of present here in the hall and that's why I'm opening 22. A session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I suggest we first hear the Anthem of BiH. Our distinguished guests have been invited to this session, along with the representatives. Since we have a Central Bank Report on the agenda in 1999, we also invited a representative of the Central Bank of BiH to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome and thank them for participating in the House of Representatives. The sitting is attended by 22 MPs, meanwhile 24. The absence from today's session was justified by Ivo Mijačević, Raifa Alagić, Suada Muminagić, Hamdija Kulović, Miodrag Deretić, Branislava Jovanović, Ljubomir Zovko and Radenka Balta. Also, we have been informed that Mrs. MPs, Mrs. Munira Karić, will be late in about an hour for this session. So we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making, so we can start working. For the 22nd session you received the draft agenda. In relation to the proposed agenda, the College agreed to suggest that the Red Cross Act and the Feature Act should be considered in the form of a draft and not in the form of a proposal, these are points 4 and 5, so we ask for respect. 3 Second proposal compared to the proposed agenda, there is no College. I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5572	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to say something about this agenda and to make some suggestions. This is about the Treaty on the State Border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, which I consider to be a very important act and essential to regulate relations with neighbouring countries, to define the state border of BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the basis of these acts, and to create even greater trust and stability in this area. However, by reading this agreement, I have a number of issues and some ambiguous formulations, which I have failed to clarify with even a member of the RS presidency because there was no time or with members of the Interstate Diplomatic Commission. In order for this to be clearer and for this act to be supported, and not just to be a voting machine, I simply ask this House that this point which has been waiting for so much, so many months, be transferred only for the next session, at which we can make that decision, but please simply for these reasons that some of the things will be clearer to us and that some of the other documents that are related to this agreement, which are not in addition to the Agreement can be looked at by the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5573	The esteemed Bureau, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I have a proposal to amend the agenda and it moves... to remove one item from the agenda and set two new points of the agenda. I think ladies and gentlemen for the future of BiH, its position in international organisations and in the eyes of the international community that it seems quite illogical to me that the Representative Council, a serious body in BiH, has so far not opened a debate on a diplomatic scandal related to the name of the BiH ambassador, to the UN, Mr Muhamed Šaćirbe. I think there are many reasons, I use the opportunity, and here is the BiH Foreign Minister, Mr Prlić, to inform us what is happening, because if such people and such names by the inscriptions we read, they represent BiH, the question is whether we who are living in BiH, who are proposing these names and those people to represent BiH, as a country other than those names, and that is why I am taking the opportunity to put as the first item of the agenda the Movement for the withdrawal of Mr Muhamed Šaćirbej from the post of BiH ambassador to the UN. I think BiH, as a recognised state, must enter the phase of analysis, both internal relations and the names of people representing BiH outside. I don't know which real modus exists that the Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, this initiative is in motion, but I really think that the conditions have been met for this parliament to talk about all that BiH and the names representing BiH, and especially the name of BiH's ambassador, to the UN. The second item of the agenda that I propose as a new item of the agenda, immediately before giving consent to ratify these agreements, is the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH. You've got that material 4. What I am looking forward to is that we have led the debate, representatives of all political parties who have their deputies in the Representative's Council, in the Office of the High Representative in Sarajevo on the 18th, that no political party has shown any where serious reserves, related to the draft of this law, Mr Đedović and I have made a commitment to refer this work material in the light of the draft to the Representative Council, and I think that given the situation, which is related both to the electoral law and to the way in which political parties are financed, it would be good that this draft be found today on the agenda and that, of course, MPs through their suggestions, try to fix the Draft, so that we may have a proposal in either the next session of the Representative Council. My third proposal is to remove the agenda section of the Sport Act, which is proposed by the Group of Representatives of the Council, for the reason that it is called here on constitutional basis, on Article 3. Point 5. The BiH Constitution. I'll remind you ladies and gentlemen of the content of that article. I do not dispute that the law on sports at the level of BiH may need to be passed, that it may be identical in the proposed form, but I am in order to absolutely comply with the Constitution and constitutional procedure, and Article 3 of point 5 of the "additional competences" BiH will take over the responsibilities of those matters on which entities agree on the things provided for in Annex 5.8. The general framework agreement or necessary to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH, in line with the division of competence among BiH institutions. Additional institutions may be established, where appropriate, for the exercise of these competences. I ask you, given that there are reserves coming from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Sports, and I think it would be good to launch an initiative that, above all, the government of entities and congregations, or parliaments entityally, consider this issue and then, in accordance with Article 3(5). The BiH Constitution, such a draft or similar draft, or in a changed form, or this one is found in front of MPs, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Representatives Council. So, I do not dispute the need to work on this, but I am in order to absolutely implement the BiH Constitution, and therefore I ask that this law be removed for reasons, that even the best ideas, I do not dispute at all the well-meaning of MPs to this idea, that we do not even have the best idea to politicise and not enter the stage without a reasonable dispute, for those things that, of course, need to be defined by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5574	I ask you to understand that we have put this agenda precisely according to the order in which your proposals went through the procedure, i.e. these drafts or draft laws. Secondly, the same principle is also respected for the next 23rd session and that everything that has passed so far will be on the agenda. This note, perhaps, to shorten these discussions, with which you will probably be pleased, if you know this fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5575	Dearly esteemed Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members, esteemed guests, I support some proposals, which have been previously made, with one to supplement or amend the agenda, with one small addition. At the last or last session of the Council of Representatives, I asked the Minister for Foreign Policy. I'd like a 5 to be heard by the minister. I asked the foreign policy minister at the last session for information on Mr. ShachirbeŠaćirbej incident in the U.S. I expect an answer to the parliamentary question, and then it would be good if the answer assessed the need for what Mr Špirić suggested to initiate such a procedure. I think it should be respected, what the MP asked, which is that the foreign ministry gets an answer to the asked question. My proposal is to supplement the agenda with the Commission's report on international relations with the Representative Council on the visit to the Croatian Parliament, which was last week. We haven't been able to prepare that report in writing, because it's been too short a time, but because of some operational things, I hope you will accept, I suggest you get a brief oral report, and you will receive the written ones with the material for the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5576	Normally, it's right for each of us to propose. The college would like us to get a written report first and then discuss it orally, let's say for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5577	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not really dispute the need for every MP to ask parliamentary questions and get answers, but I think the severity of the BiH incident, assuming that nothing is happening, this parliament deserves to be on the agenda and to see who is representing BiH. Can anyone who isn't a citizen, if he isn't representing BiH. Believe me, in the eyes of international representatives and the international community, regarding this scandal, both BiH citizens and the BiH leadership are being identified, and I'm surprised that by now, no matter what this time it is about Mr. Scaccibe, tomorrow morning it will be about someone else and the day after tomorrow, but I think the situation must be maximumly serious here and I'm looking for the agenda point. If there's going to be a withdrawal material, we'll see exactly from the agenda point of discussion. Whether there will be drag material, we will see exactly from the agenda point of debate, but don't now politicize this, regarding the answer to the parliamentary question. I agree that Mr. Professor. Dokić asked the question, there was no response in time, there was no answer and that is why I am taking the opportunity. No answer, but at least I didn't get it, I don't know if the MP got it. I also use the presence of a resolute foreign minister as the most invited man to inform this parliament, perhaps they are misinformation. But if we do not regulate relations in BiH, in a way that we are informed, we are making proposals, believe that the chances in terms of BiH's support from the international community are reduced in terms of economic reforms, so I ask you to make this thing as serious as possible and not give up on being a part of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5578	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić, on the note that we have referred this problem to certain instances. We didn't get any answers until today just so you know. I'm asking you to turn off your cell phones. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5579	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make two points here. One is a proposal to get off the agenda of the Sports Act. We who have been proposed, we ask, since it is in accordance with the business procedure that this point is not removed, it is about the draft of the law, so the form is a draft, and there is time to form the proposal, possibly if there is a misunderstanding, if there is a proposal, a suggestion at the end and an amendment, but so that changes, that's one thing. The second thing, whether constitutional or not, will give its opinion to the Constitutional and Legal Commission. As far as I'm concerned, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has been considering this bill and I don't see any reason or need for it to be removed. It is specifically called for by the Rules of Procedure and the right of the legislator to propose the law. That's one thing. The second thing, when it comes to an incident, if it can be treated that way, related to an ambassador to the U.S. United States, look at the 20th session record and you'll see that I'm the one who started it, but here it stands, but I didn't really get an answer from the Foreign Ministry, and I don't know what's going on with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5580	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5581	Thank you. Obviously only MPs have the advantage here, compared to members of the College. On the occasion of the draft agenda, I want to say this on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. First, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission discussed the draft laws, which were proposed for today's agenda item and most of these agendas, we gave a positive assessment, with the fact that we did not declare ourselves on the Red Cross Bill proposal and on the draft of the Law on the ombudusm of BiH, MEP Edhem Bičakčić, because he was not present at the Commission's session on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and because of the principle of the Constitutional Commission, we do not consider proposals for acts, those who do not appear at the session of the Constitutional Commission. As for the same reason, but this time I have to say that the Constitutional Commission will once again have to debate, we did not declare a draft competition law. However, regardless of the fact that the Constitutional Commission has not declared a certain law, the House of Representatives can discuss any law, and in this respect I think it is a good proposal for the College to turn these two proposals into drafts, so that we have more time to discuss. As for the draft law on sports, the promoter made a point, he deliberately went with the draft law to open a broad debate. The draft law passed the usual parliamentary procedure, from the initiative to more than 30 days of waiting for the Council of Ministers' statement to the constitutional commission's statement. The Constitutional Commission, by majority of votes, decided that there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, but 7 full truth works, since, of course, always the invoice is paid either at the beginning or at the end, I will say that the session of the Constitutional Commission, there were five members, that no one was present from the territory of the MPs from the RS and that of the five members of the Commission voted for the position that there was a constitutional basis, and two members do not know whether I would be very precise, if I said from the HDZ they were against the stance that there was a constitutional basis, for the adoption of the law on sport. I have also said this if I may not have the obligation to make it, but I think that because of the overall correctness of the debate in the future course of the Sport Law, I should say, formally legally, the Commission's decision I would say is precise and clear, however, there remain the dilemmas which Mr Špirić said to me, but I am still standing at the point that it is very good and now I am saying it as an MP which is the first structure of MPs – delegates in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who have signed the draft law on sport. This is about five delegates, or MPs from all three nations, or from different parties. Secondly, I think it is very important that we go towards the adoption of this law and the treći, I think that the form of the draft is broad enough and gives enough time to discuss this draft of the law today, and that perhaps in its conclusions, we adopt a position for it, and I would say about the entity debated and obtaining support for this bill, given that it seems to be one of the points, which would best represent some of the efforts that we have here and it seems to me to be the need of everyone in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5582	Thank you very much, with the apology of the chairman Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5583	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I have a few suggestions, so I can start with the Red Cross Act, regardless of what the Constitutional Commission has rightly taken the stand not to discuss proposals if the promoter is not present. I think you should hear a few arguments, then decide if you still think of a bill to stay on the agenda. 8 February O.G. The council of ministers made a decision on the Red Cross organisation at BiH level. I have the text of that decision and the OHR and the International Red Cross have agreed that this is quite enough as a basis for the operation of the Red Cross at BiH level. Secondly, I want to repeat once again that I belong to that category of people who think that in almost, not almost, but in all and all areas of life, there is a certain connection between entities that needs to be done in a constitutional and legal way. In no case am I opposed to connecting, whether it will be decisions or other legal acts and how it is implemented, the Constitution should be respected and that will be so. The Red Cross law also falls outside BiH institutions' jurisdiction and entities and entities' organisations should agree on it. The initiative around this law should come, most naturally it would be to come from entity organisations, to pass eight entity legislative bodies, come to us and that we, of course, say and adopt it. Since I am in possession of a decision, which is agreed upon, and I will read with whom it is all agreed, so behind this decision stands the Red Cross of the Federation of BiH, the Red Cross of the RS International Committee of the Red Cross or the Cross, the International Federation of the Red Cross Society or the Cross and the Red Crescent and the membership of the Red Cross/Crust of BiH. Behind this decision stand with a signature I got this. I don't think it would be directed that after such arguments, we take something of ourselves into jurisdiction that we don't. Secondly, I would suggest that we call today's conclusion from the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, to provide us with information regarding the procedure implemented in relation to this decision or the stenogram from the session when that decision was adopted. Please, it is not good for us to take in our jurisdiction something that belongs to the authorities of the entities, because it will also block the hard work of this Parliament. There's a time when we're going to agree and have what we want, it's an association that's going to connect, here's in this case the Red Cross/Cross organization, which we all want to function properly. So my view is that after this argument and argument, decide whether you still think this point should remain on the agenda. Secondly, when it comes to this law, in fact, the draft here says the basic law on BiH's ombudusm, I also think it is good that the Constitutional and Legal Commission did not discuss this without a legislator. There are also some remarks here that might be good, in the meantime, to instruct the Proposer to consider them and to postpone this item of the agenda for the next session, along with these suggestions, because it can happen, and that is true that due to the same procedure and this important legal act, a lifelong destiny, which is not good. So, despite this argument, I suggest you state whether you still think this point should remain on the agenda. Thirdly, when it comes to the Sport Act, I think it was quite clear that Mr. Spiric's argument was made, and we all think there should be an association to connect at BiH level, because there is no dispute there, but these gentlemen have to pass the entity ministries, the competent professional alliances, must pass the entity assembly and come to us, then we won't have this debate, we won't waste any time. We'll have something that'll be very simple to bring. Please don't take this as any kind of obstruction, but a time when we'll have what we want. We must also have a connection in sports, but professional alliances, ministries and entities need to be agreed, as it should be done, as it is under the Constitution of BiH. When it comes to the Šaćirbej case, we have a foreign minister here. I wouldn't want to discuss here either on the basis of the hearings, or on the basis of newspaper inscriptions. I don't want to argue. These are not relevant materials for me that can be the basis of the debate, but I have one question. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs, today and here ready to provide us with oral information on the case, if not, if it is, I absolutely think it should go into the agenda, and if it is not to give him the responsibility, to deliver that information in writing, in order to make sure that point is placed on the next session of the House. I'd like to hear the opinion of the Secretary-General. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5584	Dear MPs, I feel the need to state my position regarding the Law on Sports, since Mr Rasim Kadić has already said something here, that I have pleaded against the adoption of this law yesterday on the Constitutional Commission. I mean, all this stuff that's said about sports stands, it really needs to be brought to the state level, some act to even it out, and I don't even dispute the need for a document like this to be at the state level. However, sport is as such, regulated for the level of the entity and it can only be regulated after the entities agree on it. So the need is, but not in this way to pass the law. I don't think it's necessary, given that it was brought before me. Mr. Banjac spoke very well about the Red Cross Act. I really don't have anything else to add. I didn't even know about this decision, a team before, I think it's okay that Mr. Banjac gave. Also, I would like to include the Law on Ombdusmans with one sentence, first I would like to say this, that it is also a need for sport to agree on that at the county level, that is not what is said. When it is said that entities should be declared, it should be known that the Federation Constitution regulates that it is a problem at the level of the county. The procedure is a little longer for Parliament's adoption. In the end, about the ombudussmen to say that we have our comments cut off, to give them to me now, to make this act far better, but that it is necessary to bring it to the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5585	Please make written suggestions to give to the Secretariat, so that we can give everything to a statement, it is clear that it will be under number one, a proposal from the College, and then all of your proposals that you made. Just to ask Mr. Minister if he's got it for this so-called. Excess or not. Do you want it and you can do it? Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5586	I want to say that the ministry has given the answer to this matter as well as to the others. I don't know how it didn't arrive, and I suggest that the MP, who asked the question, was asked by two MPs in writing by Divković, Dokić, and I now hear from MP Špirić. The answer is given, and when you get that answer about him, there may be a debate. What should be said to this occasion is that the Foreign Ministry has not received any information from Sejdi Parment, so the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. That's one thing and it's very important. Secondly,... the statement by Ambassador Šaćirbegović and that statement has been made public. We have also discussed this issue in the College, and we will gather additional information, when we gather them, then we will inform both the institutions and the public in an appropriate way. That's what you can say at this point. Any debate 10 can be opened, but these are the elements that are available at this point, and everything else would actually be a speculation of what happened, and it doesn't know whether it happened or didn't happen. The appointment of ambassadors is in the power of the BiH presidency and I, if I can launch an initiative, I don't think it will compromise the presidency's position, but it will help me or anyone who is in this position, as foreign minister, the foreign ministry, in no way participates in any offer of ambassadors or any other measures relating to BiH ambassadors. I believe that this situation is such that it should be changed on the one hand and on the other hand, this initiative that I mentioned to say, I think that for every ambassador as it is in other countries, in some countries, one should actually organise hiering, that is, a conversation in the Committee on Foreign Policy, because I think that we have solutions for our diplomacy, I don't mean this specifically which we are talking about, which is below the level and diplomatic practice and which are below the level of BiH representation. I believe that these situations could have been prevented, if practice were introduced, that, before the appointment, before its entry, he would have arranged the meeting, talked to him, that he would have prepared a draft, and that the representatives in the Committee would give an assessment of the candidate. I think we'd have a much healthier situation then. To conclude, when you get an answer to the parliamentary question, you will be able to plead, put it on the agenda, or take any other action, give information, etc., I think this initiative should be considered, to help the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to help you and to get much more normal relations in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5587	Dear colleagues, before we begin to plead, about the agenda and about this draft law on sports, let me give you a few more words of clarification. As promoters, we accept all suggestions on respect for methodology and pathways, in order to reach the law of general acceptance, it is not disputed. We can agree here on a debate on the draft law, that the draft should be directed, I don't know about the consideration in the professional institutions, in the ministries of the appropriate entity, etc. and we'll accept it all is not disputed. Our goal is to get to that law. You just have to bear in mind one fact that one of the signatories of this bill and an MP who is a member of Prime Minister Dodik's party, so it's not just from one entity, it's not just from one political party or political group. The third thing, which is very important, I think we need to respect first and foremost the right of the MPs to propose in a scale with the Rules of Procedure, it should be respected, and if that's a rule to say derrogation, then the real question is, how are we going to do it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5588	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anyone normal can dispute the right of an MP to initiate the initiative and propose, but I beg you, please, for the sake of BiH's fate, not to set things upside down. It's not good for us to go with legal solutions where the consent of entity parliaments are sought, to go before with the draft. I would like it if we came to a situation with the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and Parliament, suggesting a little bit to the entity parliaments or I don't know which other way to get into the legislative procedure, so that we can propose something. I can't figure out 11 how it can come into the procedure of the law on which, in the Constitution, point 3 of Article 5. He says that to enter the procedure, there must be agreement, in order for the central, joint institutions to take over some authority. I beg you, as we try to work here in such a way, we create unnecessary cramps in entities, where there may be no reason to resist, and therefore my request was to comply with the procedure. It is less questionable whether this legal text, at this point acceptable or not. To simply respect BiH's territorial order. That what belongs to the entities that entities do. I can't understand that soon we won't be in a situation where entities say they're more expensive to work through their organs, that it's cheaper later on through joint bodies, that's the future of BiH. We are masters, leading policy,...entities to block BiH's legislative activities as a state and therefore I ask you not to do so. I assure you that this proposal, no matter how much anyone may like it or not, will not be supported here. That's not good for BiH. Let once what's on the Dejton that belongs to take over and do. That's why we have to stand up. I don't think the name of the RS Prime Minister, Mr Milorad Dodik, can be mentioned here in the context. You understand whether it's in or out. There's no memo or material from the Prime Minister that it's for this to go. You have the signature of one MP, and I think that, he is a delegate in the House of Peoples, but I do not dispute that a group of MPs can meet and discuss anything or legislation. I think that Mr. Dodik, at least he showed either the Prime Minister or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is for absolute co-operation with the government of the Federation and that what belongs to the common authorities to take over, whether Milorad Dodik or anyone else. So in that sense, I'm asking you, that the good thing is, we don't turn the good idea upside down, and we don't make unnecessary resistance. It is not good to go against the BiH Constitution, and the bill is against the Constitution. I can't understand that if the Constitution says, I really don't know or I don't know how to read the Constitution or interpret it, and I think it's good Mr. Kadić, as the chairman of the commission said that of the five members three are for, two against, that RS representatives are not present, and here it says decadently. BiH will assume jurisdiction in those things where entity consent is not achieved. I would love it if the motionor showed me any material in which the entity's consent exists, but if I as an MP, to warn you that there's resistance, so there's resistance, that things aren't defined, then I think we're unnecessarily politicizing things. Let the entity congregations agree and that we have a roof law that will regulate what belongs to the field of sports at BiH level, that is in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5589	I thank you, by the old custom, the House of Representatives, for the debate is on fire, when the agenda is set, so that the debate on the agenda becomes in fact a debate on the proposals of the agenda points. Unfortunately, I can't get away from it either, so I'll just say that among other things in the article regarding the Law on Sports, Mr Špirić reads only the first sentence of Article 5, not seeing that after that sentence there is a point – the point is not conditioned by the previous sentence, which is indeed explicitly seeking the consent of the entity, where it is said, in things that are additional and BiH's competences will take over and then what Mr Špirić said, then on things that are provided for in annexes 5 and 8 of the General Framework Agreement, and again the point – the point, or which are the need to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH, in line with the division of jurisdiction among BiH institutions. 12 Additional institutions, I am saying this about institutions, can be established as necessary for the exercise of these powers. I will be very decadent, the law on sports and the need for sports organisations and associations, at BiH level, one of the perhaps currently most popular forms of international subjectivity and BiH's representation in the world. Secondly, I'm going to come out of the concept of legal matters, so I'm going to say the next thing. Five years after Dejton, we still don't have the sport law and we don't have sports organisations at BiH level, except for a bright example of the BiH Olympic team, but that's... what we're working on. I know that there are two opposing opinions about the first need of entities to agree. But the fact that entities have done nothing so far, actually leads me to the conclusion that behind the stories of firstly agreeing to entities, stands the infinite story of prolonging and not establishing institutions, or sports organisations at BiH level, and therefore once again congratulating whoever launched this initiative, because it seems to me that in a certain way they will perform all those who speak, the entities should first agree, but here are five years they haven't even tried it. Something that seems a little more serious today in this case. First of all, Mr. Chairman, I am not sure that every minister should answer every question of MPs before it becomes a part of the agenda. The team absolutely does not dispute the law and possibility, I saw in the Croatian Parliament an actual clock, in which it is directly cumulated. We have not established this item of the agenda, of course it is welcome and desirable and can go in such a way, but as an MP in a delicate matter of Ambassador Šaćirbegović, I would really like to have it as a complete, first as a point of the agenda, or as some sort of topical debate, but based on any relevant information. At this point, we do not even have a written reply from Mr. Foreign Minister, who seems to be being directed and who will probably come to us quickly and therefore, it seems to me that at the very least we should find a more appropriate model of discussion on this issue at the House of Representatives. Secondly, I must say one of my findings. In the discussion, on the occasion of this question, and it is always out of the agenda most heard, Mr Prlić seems to have used a dangerous qualification, for which he does not have constitutional authority. In fact, he said that some ambassadors, or diplomatic representatives of BiH, are not at the level of what they should be and if they only, as foreign minister, I do not think I should be given such qualifications because foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH presidency. Such a qualification is, I would say, leaving Mr Prlić's mandate, but in any case it is good that he mentioned a completely new possibility, which we have never used here, which is, including the Foreign Policy Commission of the BiH House of Representatives, in the previous one, I would say a debate on the appointment of our diplomatic representatives, by the BiH Presidency. This excludes the exclusiveness of the BiH presidency, and I would say, which is of course defined by the Constitution, it seems to me that it should be expanded by Mr Prlić's initiative, about so-called the previous examination of three candidates and of course, by staying in the presidency's jurisdiction to finally declare each of the candidates. It's one of the good initiatives, but I think the assessment of a lack of good level, some of our diplomatic representatives, seems to me I'm going to do it again, is to step out of the framework, or constitutional powers of the foreign minister, and it seems to me that there may be some political damage. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5590	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly, as Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers, just a little further shed light on the Red Cross Act and the Red Cross Decision, which Mr Banjac has met you about. Very briefly, the law that is before us today, that is, the proposal, so it was the idea to be a draft was sent to the Council of Ministers to consider the past months, 6-7 months ago, as far as I know. The fact is that the Council of Ministers, this law, regardless of several attempts, did not consider or take a stand on it. The decision spoke of by Mr Banjac is true that he appeared at the Council of Ministers and was discussed at the Council of Ministers and discussed at its last regular session. However, I have to tell you my position and attitude of some other people, that it is questionable whether it has passed or not, or whether the full procedure is respected for its adoption. Any decision to take that form must be signed by, was such a procedure by the two co-chairs and chairmans, so signed and certified by professional services, meaning the Administrative Service of the Council of Ministers, sent to the Official Messenger for publication, only then becomes valid. That didn't happen. For your information and composition at that session at that time, he may not have been entirely adequate to make such a decision, but he certainly can inform you of all this. However, I would like to say another, that it stands, that there is the consent of the entity organisations of the Red Cross to make such a decision. However, it should be said that there is no agreement between the Red Cross of BiH, which is now existing under the Red Cross Act, which so far has been discussed on the regulation of the Republic and the Federation of BiH, but so far as I know neither by any act nor has been put out of force, has been derogated, has not been amended in some segments, which does not mean that this should not be fully done for your information, I do not think there is another organisation that deals with this kind of map... activities in the Federation, which is the Red Crescent. I would just like you, from my point of view, to know that the decision itself is, as it is, difficult for you to formally - legally repeal the law that was in force and which, in my opinion, is still in force in BiH and I do not think that such a legal practice exists to break the law. This may be by some other decision, but by law which Parliament or other relevant institutions should make. The decision itself, believe me, is now in this form, I think it's empty and it doesn't solve the key problem, and it seems to me that it may complicate the situation in relation to the existing Red Cross/Brussels in relation to its assets and the availability of that property and the law that has been in force so far and as far as I know it has not been amended or annulled. My personal position, if it means anything to you that this law, which is before you, which was proposed by MP Mr. Bičakčić, is, in the most part, on the back of this decision, on the subject of association and organisation, entity organisations and the formation of an association, i.e. the conditionality of an institution at the level of the state, which would represent them on an international basis, have certain functions, but I think it is much more detailed and quality to solve it. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5591	Dear gentlemen, I have been quite clear and reasoned in the presentation and it is quite clear that I have called for a decision, which they have accepted and behind the entity organisations. It's really absurd that there's some kind of red cross or red cross, that acts outside the Red Cross or the entity cross, and who its members are, because BiH doesn't even have a territory where these members could stay. So, I don't want to talk about it. There is no Red Cross BiH or the Red Cross and what once existed and what has property, it has to be solved, I agree. Whether or not this association will be called, it has to go through one of those procedures, so I don't take time away from people. I said that, which is why I think what you're saying right now, I appreciate it, but I did have an official conversation with the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications by accident suggested this sequence of events in the future to get the right information. I suggest you sit down at the ministry's college, make a deal and send the information, and I suggest we continue to draw the conclusion that we get that information. Whether the decision was made or not, whether the decision was good or not, on that basis, that's what you were thinking and doing, when you were thinking about it, and that if the decision was made, and I think it was and I have reliable information that it was, that one of the former co-chairs didn't want to sign it, so it's not his father's, and it's far more than my late grandmother says that he could act that way. Your Honor, we cannot accept the conclusion that someone will not sign what the organ has brought. Let's not support it, it doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, but I didn't know it was nicer to say, if it was his commendation procedure that he didn't want to sign, which I would choose words for what he deserved and how to condemn. Here's the man I support absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5592	I'm asking you not to enter the dialogue.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5593	Gentlemen, this story of how the response from the Foreign Ministry in the length of five doors travels for seven days is a deguant. Don't please, officers here and how they know they're hiding those documents that don't suit them. I'm gonna make a list of lost documents someday. It's a shame what's done. Peter's door should pass and we should wait 15 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5594	Mrs. Rađević called, but I'm asking for discipline. Do we have a quorum? Hold on, please. How many representatives are in the hall? Now we're smoking okay. Now we can move on. Here you go, Mrs. Rađević. I'm asking you to bring this debate to an end. I really don't think there are any new proposals that could lead us forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5595	Fellow MPs, gentlemen of the chairman, my question or replica refers to Mr. Kadić's discussion. He read a sentence here, or needed for the 15th preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of BiH, etc. and thus cited it as an argument in favour of the draft law on sports staying on the agenda today, as proposed. I'm asking the question, Mr. Kadić. Who is it to determine what it is that increases sovereignty, territorial integrity, etc.? You'll probably answer me, this home, and I'll answer the entities. So that's how we go back to the first sentence of this key member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5596	I ask you, unless someone has a really constructive proposal on the agenda point to bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5597	I thank Mrs. Rađević for asking, and I think she tried to give me an answer. I would a little modify the answer, answer the question of the areas and powers of the international subjectivity of BiH, is given by the Parliamentary Assembly. What is good in this case from the legislator, which is proposed by the law in the form of a draft and has already stated that he has conducted a broad debate, had some round tables and that from the form of the draft to the form of the proposal he is ready to hear the opinion of all, including entity positions, which can also be incorporated into the final position, but this is the combination between the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the time that entities can remain on the stand to be heard so as not to, I repeat, by the story that the competent entities have constantly pro-longed the resolution of certain important issues.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5598	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for giving us 10 minutes to compare your suggestions and continue the session. Ten minutes, I think it'll be enough. We have a quorum, we can proceed with the session. [[PAUZA]] In the future debate on the agenda, such as is finished, please, since the debate on the agenda has been concluded, as agreed, I will read first as proposal number one, proposal from the College, which agreed at the last session, that this is a joint draft agenda as you have before you, with that note, that points 4 and 5. The Nnart Act, not the bill of law, and I'll put it on the vote and by that, if that agenda doesn't pass, then I'll put all your points on an individual statement, along with the points in the agenda. I hope you understand that. We've got a quorum. We have 22 MPs, so we have a quorum. Now I'm putting in motion number one. 1. The college proposal, the agenda, as you have before you, to vote. I'm asking everyone who's on the agenda proposal. Thank you very much. Who's against it? According to the Federation entities, who's on the agenda? Thank you very much from RS who's for? Thank you very much. 16 Of the 22 representatives present, the general vote was voted, i.e. 14 - 8 voted against. By entities. Federation 12 was in favour. RS 2 was in favour. Therefore, this draft agenda has not passed. Now let's go dot by item voting on the agenda. Let's first get out of the agenda you have ahead of you, and then your proposals will come together individually. Point 1. The adoption of a record from the 20th session of the House of Representatives who's in favour? I think this point has passed, that's the first point of Ad2. Giving consent to ratification, hereafter mentioned agreements
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5599	I don't think that's a good thing, since the College has agreed to leave out this point for the next session and that without that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5600	Please, we still understand each other now. We are correcting, ratifying, giving consent to ratification, I am putting all these agreements on the agenda, except for point d. which is the State Border Treaty between the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Croatia. It is prolonged according to the proposal for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5601	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5602	So that we don't start the debate again, I'll put it under number one, all these agreements, and you plead, and then without this point d. So go ahead and plead. Is that clear? I'm putting on item number two, all these agreements and contracts, as it stands on the agenda, and then we're going to put without this point d. Who's to adopt point 2 as it stands with point d. Who's for? Do we? Who's against it? Thank you very much. From the Federation who's in favour? - Thank you. From RS, who's in? – Of the 23 present – 16 is for, is against 8. From Federation 14 for a from RS 2 for. This first proposal didn't go through. Now I'm giving the second point of voting again without a point d. Who's in favour? 17 Who's against it? From the Federation, who's in? From RS who's in? Unfortunately, I have to tell you, of the total 23-16 voted in favour. Federation 8 voted and RS 9 voted in favour. Therefore, this proposal did not receive the necessary majority. Do you agree that we should vote again? Don't make any suggestions, just let's finish the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5603	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5604	That's what we're going to do now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5605	It's not right to vote. Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5606	Please, the vote doesn't count. I ask that this last vote be repeated. Please, just for point two, no d. Repeat. Who's in favor of item two, no d. Who's against it? - There's no one from the Federation who's in favour, to finish the vote? From RS who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5607	It's different now. The number didn't even match up a little while ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5608	Now the vote is correct and the numbers agree, but of the total of 24 - 19 were in favour. Federation 9 was up for it. RS 10's for it. This proposal didn't go through either. Well, now let's go dot-by-point, Bog help us. As for point 2a. Agreement between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under (a) Who is in favour? - Thank you very much. Who's against it? From the Federation, who's in? From RS who's in? Thank you very much. Let's just report the results. Of the 24 present – 22 for total. Federation 13 for. From RS 9 for. So point a. has passed, remains on the agenda. Objection some don't have hope. Under point b, you have it so I don't read it so I don't drag it. Who's in? 18 from the Federation, who's in? From RS who's in? Let's just read it in a stenogram. Under b) point. Of the 24 present – 22 for. By entities. Federation – 13 for – RS 9 for. Therefore, point (b) remains on the agenda. ( c) Who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation who's in favour? From RS who's in? Of 23 present 22 for. By entities. Federation 12 for – RS 10 for. So this stays on the agenda. Point d) Key point, I refer to those who are a little less careful. Dot d) who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation, who's in? Who's against it? From RS, who's in? Point d) of 23 present – 14 for a 8 against. From Federation 12 for – RS 2 for. Therefore, this point did not go on the agenda. We have a point e) Who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation who's in favour? Of the 24 present 23 are in favour. So we have both the entity and every other majority. Thank you very much. Point f) Who's in? You don't need to go any further. Of the 24 present – 23 for. So we have both entity and each other. Point G. Who's in? Of the 24 present – 23 for. So it's over. Point h) From 24 present – 23 were for. That's how we absorbed the second item of the agenda. Ad. 3. Who's in favour? Of the 24 present – 23 are for. So I have to trust my secretariat, I guess. Here's a question. If it's 23, it's unanimous. Here's the correction, please respect. Of the 23 present, 23 are in favour. Thank you very much. Ad. 4. Draft Law on the Red Cross/Brussels of BiH Who's For? 19 Who's against it? Of the 23 present – only 9 for, therefore, this item of the agenda did not pass. Ad. 5. Draft law on BiH distinctions Who's in favour? Who's against it? Of the 23 present – 19 for. Therefore, this item of the agenda was adopted. Ad.6. Draft law on BiH's ombdusman Who's in favour? Who's against it? From the Federation, who's in? From RS, who's in? Of the 23 present – 15 is for – is against 8. From Federation 13 for – from RS – 2 for. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go past. Ad.7. Draft competition law who's in favour, ask everything? Who's against it? Of the 23 present, everyone's in favor. Thank you very much. Ad.8. Draft law on archival construction Who's for? Of the 23 present – 22 for. So this point has passed. Ad.9. A draft law on sports Who's for? Who's against it? Of the 23 present 10 is for – 12 is against. Therefore, this point 9 did not go through. Ad.10. Innovated report who's in favour? Who's against it? Of the 23 - all 23 is in favour. Ad.11. Who's in? Of the 23 present – 22 for. One is restrained or against. Ad.12. Answers to MPs and MPs' questions Who's in favour? This point has passed. Of the 23 present, all 23 are in favour. Now we're going in order, the way you've been making your proposals here. Mr. Kadić, do you have an objection to the vote? Just please don't get into a discussion. You have the right only to vote to comment. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5609	Ladies and gentlemen, for the vote, especially on the second item of the agenda that has been invested in months and some years of work, all the bodies within BiH and that BiH brings to some places millions of lives and normal lives. The vote and the fact that the integral item of the agenda did not go away due to the lack of number of MPs. I'd like to refer the next proposal. I ask the College to publish with a paid ad in the daily newspaper a list of attendances to all sessions of the House of Representatives from 1st to 21st session, that's first. Secondly, to ask my parliamentary question at the last session, the College shall forward the OSCE to the Interim Election Commission and shall request the removal of MPs, in accordance with the Interim Election Commission's decision on continued not attending the session. They have a rule that regulates it. The third thing is that for MPs, or MPs in this House of Representatives, who expressed their desire to replace, or resign, who resigned from this House, to speed up with the OSCE to replace these MPs, the new MPs, in order to simply be able to work normally. I expect that the College will accept these suggestions, because watch out, we can't, as an MP who's been to all the sessions, I can't get into a position to put up with the lack of the House of Representatives' House of Parliament because of a few MPs who don't come at all. Please, I want us not to be hostages in the hands of some individuals who have more important things to do than the interest of the BiH state. The agreement with the United States costs $15m for local infrastructure, many things have already been done, in many municipalities, people expect the implementation of these funds, and what we now need not to delay, with our presence here, the very slow procedure of coming to Parliament. Gentlemen of the College, I believe white figures are currently in your hands, use them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5610	Thank you very much. I think it's his right, but it could've been on parliamentary issues, it's fine. We're moving on with the agenda vote, I guess we'll do it today. Vito Rakić, number one. That point, there's no reason to go, because I think you agree, Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5611	There's nothing to agree on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5612	Nikola Špirić made three suggestions. I'll try to interpret it. 21 1. To include the debate on the agenda in line with the Excess of Šaćirbej, the BiH ambassador to the UN. Who's in? It's a vote now, Mr. Dokić. If we go into debate now, then we really won't vote today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5613	I would ask my colleague Špirić to give up insistence that it enters the agenda today. The minister explained to us nicely that we have no elements to discuss. I'm about to get it on the agenda, but then when we have the material. I'm afraid we're going to start and it's just going to be a form of one and how do I say in front of the public bluffing that we want to do something. I'm here to discuss this seriously, but when we have the material. To postpone it for the next session, so it doesn't fail.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5614	I agree, but if Mr. Špirić gives up well he is, but if we don't have to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5615	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute that there are other proposals, any MP may suggest. If by any chance the material had been on the table, it would have been the answer, etc. I'm asking that there be a point to the agenda, it's the right of an MP to vote yes or no. Probably this won't be the point of everything we want to discuss, but please vote yes or vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5616	That's right, too. Who is it that this point of Mr Špirić is included in the agenda. 1. Who's in? 2. Who's against it? Of the 23 present 8 for – 9 v, this proposal has not passed. Point 2. To include on the agenda the draft law on the financing of political parties Who's in favour? I've got here a report that is procedurally unfulfilled with all the notices. I think that's correct to say before the vote. I don't mind the agenda, but I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5617	I'll just give an explanation, which may well define you, to give up further proceedings. We received the Law on the Financing of Political Parties on 22.05.2000, meaning o.g. and we sent it to the Council of Ministers, to give an opinion and the deadline for giving an opinion is 30 days and it expires in 22.06. only afterwards can it go to congregation procedure. Please appreciate this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5618	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić, are you staying here to vote? Point 3. Your proposal, I think it's been voted out that we've come forward with it. Do you agree, Mr. Špirić? Thank you very much. Mr Branko Dokić would like to include the Commission's report on international relations on the visit to the Republic of Croatia, which would first be oral, and the written report would eventually reach the lawmakers. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? By entities, from the Federation who's in favour? Thank you. From RS who's in? Dokić's proposal, from 23 to 12, was for – 1 against. From Federation 8 for RS 3 for. Therefore, unfortunately, this proposal did not pass. Now we have five suggestions from Mr. Mirko Banjac that we have already spoken about.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5619	I'm giving up, just under number two.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5620	We have only a proposal number 2 to conclude that the Council of Ministers is asked to provide information on the decision-making procedure of 802/2000, which regulates the issue of the Red Cross or Cross organisation. Please, who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation, who's in? From RS who's in? Of the 23 present – 16 was for a 1 v. From Federation 8 for. From RS 8 for. Therefore, this proposal did not go beyond the agenda point either. We have Mrs. Ana Havel's proposal here, which was already there, and I'll read it. He supports Mr. Banjac's proposal regarding the Red Cross and the Sports Act. According to what you're getting along. 23 So, I'm taking a half hour break. You'll have the agenda on the table final and we'll continue the session. An hour to choose to eat lunch if you arrive. Please, we're continuing the session. [[PAUZA]] Let me just read the agenda you have in front of you for a stenogram. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th session of House of Representatives 2. Giving consent to ratification (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the field of culture, education and science (b) of the US Government and the Council of Ministers of BiH on Economic and Technical and Related Assistance for BiH (c) of the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the Organisation of Border Transport d) of the Finite Treaty. assistance between BiH and the United States for municipal infrastructure and services e) Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Italy and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the consolidation of certain debts, f) Agreement on approved transit for Yugoslav citizens, which are required to leave the country of residence of Mr Anexa of the debt consolidation agreement between the Government of Great Britain and the Council of Ministers of BiH 3. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 1999 Year four. Draft law on BiH's honours 5. Draft competition law 6. Draft law on archive construction and archive of BiH 7. Innovated report on meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe 8. Report on BiH's participation in the 56th BiH delegation The UN Human Rights Delegation meeting of the UNHCR, I would like to ask for this correction to be held in Geneva from 20 March to 28 March. April 2000 9. Answers to MPs' questions and MPs' questions. I had to read this. This is what we adopted. I'm opening a debate. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of a record from the 20th session of the House of Representatives whether anyone needs to discuss the minutes. Here you go. Can we vote on the record? Who's in? I'm asking everyone. Of the 22 present 21 for. According to this, I don't think we need to vote any further. Comments. There's no one here. 24 Ad.2. Giving consent to ratifying the agreements that I read I don't think we should read them again. I suggest, here's the debate and let's make a statement about this package like this, with all the laws, the contracts as planned here. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Obviously, we're tired of the agenda. May I put you on vote. The package that's under point 2. So up to including Mr. Who's for? Of the 22 present, 22 for. So this item of the agenda was adopted unanimously. Moving to 3. Agenda point. Ad. 3. The annual report of the Central Bank of BiH for 1999. Is there a reporter? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5621	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, since I've been here with you for two days, I'm still going to take the opportunity to say a few words, although you've got the materials. The Central Bank of BiH ended in 1999, according to our estimates quite successfully and basic tasks presented to the Central Bank, which is that it maintains the stability of the domestic currency in continuity, it successfully completed the task, meaning that the currency mass in the domestic currency, i.e. The central bank's monetary passport was covered at all times by foreign exchange activity, which, from the point of view of Karens-bord-board, on which the Central Bank functions, means that each broadcast domestic KM was covered by a German mark in parity one to one. There were also significant foreign exchange reserves, at the end of the year, that amounted to 865 million German marks. Another task, which we think is one of the Central Bank's results, is that it has managed to completely squeeze all alternative currencies out of the cash-free payment, i.e. Croatia's kuna, Yugoslav dinar and German brand, which means that in the entire BiH territory of KM in security transport, the only means of payment is. We believe that this is a significant step towards strengthening domestic currency and on trust and commercial banks and foreign banks in domestic currency. Also, in the same period, the conversion mark can be changed to six European countries, so we have come out of BiH's borders. The third task per me, which is worth mentioning, is that the Central Bank is self-financed, meaning from its own income, covering all its costs and that it has achieved a certain profit you see in your materials. The fourth, which is also very significant for 2000. The central bank is also an active participant, I would say the leader, in BiH, who is also under way, and we think that these commitments taken by the Central Bank, which is the assumption that payment traffic is moving from the Ministry of Payments to the commercial banks and that we will succeed by the end of the year 25 by the end of the year, to the commercial banks. Of course, in that case, the Central Bank gets a new role, except for this show, and it also gets a role, so to speak, in full control of all monetary transactions in BiH. I hope we can meet that with success. The central bank is one example of how joint institutions in BiH can function, not to say function well. Just another apology that Mr. nikol isn't here, he's on his way, and I'm changing him in this period, so here I was going to say a few words. Thank you. If there are any questions I'll...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5622	Here, if there are any questions, please. This is what we're getting at. Does anyone have any questions to answer? Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5623	When someone works well, their reports are short. I would like to say, as an MP in this house, that we all feel the advantages of the good work of the Central Bank of BiH, in the past period, and it seems to me that if there is one thing that we are proud of both in BiH and beyond the borders of BiH, then it is stabilising domestic currency and I would say keeping my domestic currency in, I would say stable, without inflationary conditions. What we don't usually have the answer to ask or don't have the answer is, I don't know if it's a relevant question at this home, because what is the price of retention, without the inflationary level of the birthmark in BiH, is one question and another thing, which I want to point to is the next. Namely, in conversations I've had with some bankers lately, I've come up with a paradoxical case. In fact, all the bizmen in BiH are being broken down to get to the so-called. fresh funds for new investments, and it goes pretty hard, due to imposed conditions in entities, via banking agencies and very difficult restrictions to obtain credit. On the other hand, it's almost paradoxical that banks are loaded with money, with very high interest rates. The question for the vice governor is this. What the Central Bank and whether or not it can, and whether it is its mandate, do, in order to extort the demand for money through commercial banks and the amount of interest to receive all the funds in commercial banks. It seems to me that simply the interest rate to the U.S. banks is not sustainablely high in the current situation. In this regard, I have another additional, one additional contribution to the possible debate. Namely, we are all witnesses, very important points of conversion, i.e. the abolition of the Department of Payments and the conversion of finesse. traffic, i.e. translation fine. transport to commercial banks. According to some of the experiences of Western-European countries, the development of payment traffic through banks is treated as a separate fine. activity from the regular activity of commercial banks, which are common in the world. Whether banks in BiH, after taking up office for payment traffic, will have a separate fine. The bank's business as a bank and what is taken over in terms of the functions of the Payment Office or all these funds will be mixed up in a certain way, so we will continue to come to so-called. Prolonging expensive loans, for banks to have an alternative source of funding from a commission on behalf of financial transactions, taking over of the Payments Office. I consider this one of the important issues for the overall development of business in the Vish, and I would ask, if the vice governor is willing to possibly respond to the frame of his jurisdiction. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5624	Poslanik Kadić, here are three questions I will try to answer very briefly. The second question was. For which banks have a certain level of funds and do not place those funds. This finding is correct and, if the bank reserve is 10%, on average, the bank today keeps reserves on accounts in the Central Bank about 30%. In our view, this is the result of the market as it is, in fact, we have 56 banks in BiH. Of which 17 in RS and 29 in the Federation. It's summed up by banks, mostly small-sized banks, but banks that are currently at risk of placing funds, due to the legal system we have. We do not now have the funds of mortgages and very difficult to collect their debts and have huge claims, so that banks are very difficult to decide to place these funds into a secure source. Of course, this reconstruction of the financial sector will come, produce results to improve the sector and be placed more secure than it is right now. So, I think that's the only reason banks don't currently have the instruments to collect their claims, they don't have effective instruments. First, an acceptive warrant, which has shown its enormous ineffectiveness here, 8,000 companies have been blocked in the Federation due to acceptive warrants. The general liquidity has caused this instrument, and now there is a bill and check, which, unlike an accept warrant, are withdrawing and criminal responsibility, so we think it's going to come to some nice. Discipline and up to higher placements, and hence until market action, to a reduction in interest rates. What you said is all standing and we expect in the next period that there will be a reduction in interest rates and plasma, if the instrument of mortgage, bonds and check is used. The second question is whether banks will have new funds in payments. It is true that by taking over a commercial bank, they receive a new product, which is to carry out payment traffic in BiH. They will certainly charge their commission, but this commission should also be lower than the current office which collects one change from the amount, because according to us a transaction of 10 marks and transactions of a million marks, you need the same time of processing, the same material and the same people to process that transaction. So it doesn't make sense that it's being charged from the amount, but it's probably going to be a transaction fee, and we think that if two committees are in one bank, which is a great opportunity and especially for large banks, because it's being dealt with by internal payment, then there's no cost, then it's definitely going to be cheaper than it is right now. Also, it must be faster and more efficient and we, by introducing this FTJ system, which is currently, it is being introduced into the Central Bank, we do and control where it will not be able to come to payments for non-equity banks, so it will not be possible to happen as today that the bank only knows its situation at the end of the day. It'll have to be here at the same time, if the bank doesn't have the funds, there's no payment. The capital market in BiH will have to be formed and only liquid banks will be able to operate. We believe that this is a new quality, and we think that banks will be commercial and are all interested in participating in payment traffic, doing it quality in the next period, so it is everywhere in Europe and I hope that we too will catch that step with Europe. The third question is, how much does this stability of the domestic currency cost? I can't answer that question, but I know for a fact that the Karens-Ibord rules, what you said and the other question, the Central Bank has no influence on the formation of neither the exotic rate nor the capital price, so strict rules are only about money and control emissions and the 27 monetary masses in BiH. Here's the new quality he gets to control pay traffic in BiH. So from Karens-ibord-Ibord's point of view, he's in effect for another three years in BiH, it's protected, and that's the rule that one converting brand is one breast brand, so each mark in circulation is covered by German law. We have 865 million foreign exchange reserves, we place them in foreign banks and from these banks we support ourselves and the Central Bank of course remains a certain profit. It's the policy of every commercial bank. I don't think there's going to be a separation, that they're going to have it on the same jury account, that's just one new product, means making payments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5626	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5627	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I would have had several questions concerning future behaviour, the current and future behaviour of the Central Bank and if the deputy governor could respond, and it is related to international payment traffic in BiH and a very unfavourable relationship between exports and imports and its impact on monetary stability in our country. I am interested in whether it is considering using monetary policy on new investments, whether through public works or by mobilising private commercial banks to support private investments and the treći, how it is intended to consolidate the country's internal payment turnover in a situation where there is a large internal responsibility and where there are no effective legal instruments to bring such a situation into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5628	There's Mr. Divković here, so if there are questions to answer in the set.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5629	Dear colleagues and Mr. Chairman, it's not an exclusive question, because it's a discussion, but there will be questions, so I think it's convenient to possibly answer, etc. Today, here's another time we're discussing, one of the Central Bank reports. We are a small opportunity to discuss the report once, I think for 98 years, if I am not mistaken and this report today shows, what we in the SDP appreciate as the work of the most efficient central institution in BiH. That's what we're saying, it's really one of the bright points for us, when it comes to institutions. We in the SDP particularly appreciate the results that are listed here, and this is here on page 8 continuous reflection of the stability of the conversion mark, inflation restriction, co-ordinated roles of the Central 28 Bank etc.. In fact, few in this country who were up to a year ago believed that a single government in BiH was possible, especially its stability and such a low inflation rate. However, this report, precisely on pages 15 and 16 of what my predecessor said, clearly shows and I would say the general economic environment in BiH, or its entities, is a rather dreary picture in some way of our reality. Just look at the ratio of imports and exports, look at industrial production, and what it says will be a clear state of BiH. This information is our last warning, at all levels of government, and also our Council of Ministers, which will be formed, because we have chosen the chairman and all the political factors of this country, does not mean only those who are in power, that in some way it is high time that everyone turns to creating an environment for positive changes in the economic and this is clearly followed by a social state. This report has indicated in several places that, among other things, central bank functions and the examination of the reform of the banking and payment system and coordination, i.e. the co-ordinated role of the bank and banking agency in the issue of the commercial bank supervisory licence. Here you have to say that there's a one-line thinner that's, I'd say does not co-ordinate with the results of the Central Bank itself. In fact, as much as it seems to me that I have increased the confidence of citizens in domestic currency and all of us in BiH, so much is present not trust in our commercial banks, and that is one big problem. In particular, it seems to me strengthened, very often and unverified stories about the situation in certain banks, which they would have said were currently under the control of the Banking Agency, etc. Therefore, according to us, the Central Bank should intensify this co-ordinated role with the Banking Agency for the purpose of more effective licensing or not licensing of certain banks, i.e. by bringing this total banking system into the country, I would say to one of the regular states, because this is a basic prerequisite for economic recovery in BiH, and therefore it is in some way our question whether something is going to work on intensifying the overall system of checking or centralizing these banks, whether it will go public with, I would say public statement from the Banking Agency and the Central Bank, which are inherent, which are not, which banks are truly existing and which do not, so would all these stories that exist and this lack trust, which is quite public and in the economy in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5630	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss, or to ask questions. I'd like to ask the vice governor if he can give more further explanations.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5631	I thank you for your comments in the report and for trying to answer these three or four questions. First of all, the consolidation of payment traffic. It's true, I said in the opening statement that it is, how much is not liquidity and how many are blocked companies. One of the measures is the Banking Agency in both the Federation and RS that the account will not be able to transfer 29 companies that are blocked, which have obligations. So, only pure forms will be able to move into commercial banks, which means that there will be some multilateral compensation between these firms that are in trouble and, of course, the management of these companies solves these problems, or they will go bankrupt. So only clean firms will be able to move from the new year to work with commercial banks, which will increase liquidity in BiH itself. As for, as you said monetary stability in the country, here is the information that 20% of exports are covered by imports. So one-fifth of the exports we cover with imports, that's a big imbalance for BiH right now. Of course, the Central Bank has a role to play besides this show to monitor these economic movements. It has no de... influence these are tasks and warnings, well someone said, warnings about both entity governments and the BiH government, and all of us who are dealing with some economy. Surely this imbalance towards a self-sustainable economy is huge and that we're going to have to, there's less and less funding for these, that we're going to have to use these own resources. That's the task, I told you about both the entity governments and the BiH government and all of us who are working on these jobs. What the gentleman asked, not the trust of a commercial bank and more efficient licensing. What you said, you're right, but the Central Bank doesn't have the traditional role of the National Bank, where the National Bank was doing a supervision, giving licenses, removing licenses, it has now, unfortunately, this role of the prescribed Karens-Ibord only of the bank's emissions, so that the banking agencies, which will issue bank licenses, will give a list of some order of bank success, and you've seen that the banks are now obliged to give their annual reports in the media, so that they publicly announce that they would be aware of any savings and potential commissioners, which is a better bank and which is worse. It is true that there is still no trust and we expect that the next period will be the rounding of the banking sector to stronger banks, this is what day the Wolf Bank in BiH starts working. In RS this member was abolished that they treated the Federation banks as foreign banks, so now the Federation banks are opening branches in the RS and vice versa, so it comes to this, to say the unification of the financial market, so we expect that by privatising of course banks, still banks and this one of the reasons they keep the funds still the biggest banks in BiH are still without foreign capital, they have old obligations not cleared up, there is savings solved by these certificates, but they are still burdened, with this history, so only after that transformation do we expect these banks to be better nice. The market. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5632	Thank you very much. Have we exhausted the questions? We did. We've received this report, so we've made our proposals, we're going to point 4. Ad.4. I am putting an end to the agenda, i.e. the debate. Here you go. How many of us are there? Is anyone there? Can we plead?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5633	I'm ladies and gentlemen, I thought today would be the day when a representative of the promoter will come here and give an opening explanation. I don't think, for what time, we don't have a representative of 30 proposings and I can't accept that this point is being discussed in this way. If there is no promoter, I suggest that this point be postponed and seriously objected to the motioner for such behaviour. I didn't tell these people who would come from the promoter, but that we can't ask or get an opening statement and that we're going to vote, I'm against it absolutely. I'm absolutely like that. I have objections, but I don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5634	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. Who is it that we return this bill of distinction to the proposer, with the explanation given by the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5635	I think that the proposal of my fellow Banjac to return it to the Proposer, rather than for the reason that there are no proposings today, and it is the draft, means that we should suggest today any changes to that draft and get answers from the promoter whether he accepts it or not, in order to accept it and to move forward in the procedure. The word is just here to make this go away for the next session, then we're going to insist on being a promoter here, not going back to the proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5636	Let's not open a dialogue here, I'm asking you to make a statement about this proposal if you're willing to, Mr. Banjac's proposal that you've heard.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5637	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, dear guests, given that this is a draft and that we have adopted the agenda and in the framework of the agenda we have accepted the consideration of this point, I think it is quite correct to make any remarks or suggestions to improve this law. I don't think there's any serious reason why we don't make a statement about this or give our contribution to a quality law in the field of award, or medals, that would come from work and activity, whether domestic or foreign persons, as provided for by this law. I think there are all the conditions for us to plead this out and even give it to a public debate, if anyone thinks a law like this should go public. So, adopt the draft and send it to a public hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5638	Honorably, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, distinguished guests, without the presence of the draft draft law, makes no sense at all to discuss the draft, because this is about one non-serious behaviour of the motionor, and we agreed not once that we would never discuss the draft or the law, if there is no proposing present and it is not about removing the agenda point, but about postponing for the next session, when we expect the promoter to be present. If the promoter doesn't come two or more times, then 31 means it's an unserious proposal and he's not interested in what's going to happen to his proposal, or the draft or the law. I disagree with the previous MP, who says we've adopted the agenda. The truth is we can put it on the agenda, but then when that point is on the agenda, it is needed to be present, not at the time when we adopt the agenda. So now he's supposed to show up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5639	I suggest we take a half-hour break, when we've been waiting for Mr. Tuševljak as the prime minister and waiting for the motion speaker to answer all these questions and interests regarding the Law of Detects. As an MP, I'm asking for a half-hour break to wait for the promoter. I'd just like to ask you chairman, when someone's looking for a break whether or not the word is given after that, sometimes you don't give a word and sometimes you give, you just have a unique attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5640	Unfortunately, we still don't have a decoded attitude, who has a replica and who has a debate, we're going to have to have those tables, we're going to bring them in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5641	I have volunteered to express my dissension and protest, with what fellow MP Sejfudin Tokić has now said here. I think it is extremely hypocritical, after his behaviour when it comes to the presence – the absence of the sessions, especially the last of them, to come here and so to declare. Secondly, I think that somehow these proposals for breaks, points out here to the self who lives in Sarajevo, there are people who, after the assembly, have to travel for five hours, and I don't think it's correct, for some of the most inconclusive reasons to seek a break for half an hour and an hour, and while I'm here to direct another protest, which was particularly yesterday here... fellow MPs from the SDP, honor of the exceptions that this does not apply, are really so laughing at anyone who comes out here to say something, that this is extremely unserious and is not appropriate at all to this home or to this hall or situation in which we are in. But your colleague is all funny. I'm surprised you're not yourself then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5642	Honorable gentlemen, it's free for people to give opinions, but the fact is to ask for a break to come to a session and obviously if it's not in touch, so he knows that he'll come for work hours is not serious. I don't think there's a business opportunity, to take a break for something like this, and I don't think you can take a break. If you take a break, I'll leave the session, because this can't happen that we're looking for a break to have someone come and we don't know if they'll come at all. This is one extremely unauthorized, not serious action, which is repeated on several occasions behind this pay phone and SDP MPs are 32 of those who are very often walking in this room, whether or not, obviously the gentlemen care to show and prove and participate in the actions that this Parliament does not work in a very good and serious way, but this is one of the evidence, this seeking a break is their goal. I'm not taking a break, as a member of the College, and I'm asking them to make a statement as to whether they'll take a break for this reason, because these reasons are not for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5643	Unfortunately, when there are no ESFOR in some places, the liberal should assume the role of calming the situation. The House of Representatives continues its war with the BiH Presidency, through the requisition of Mr Mirko Banjac and I, of course, as a member of the House of Representatives, consider this conditional, I stand in principle at the position that the House of Representatives must protect its own integrity and dignity, and in this respect I think we have already shown our teeth and received a certain kind of public sadification that we have not had. However, in this case, I would ask Mr. Banjac not to be so explicit, because it is the first item of the agenda, which seems unanimously accepted. Secondly, it is the draft law on distinctions and the Third, it seems to me that there is no business provision in either the past or the current Rules of Procedure, which says that in view of the draft law, the proposing must be held at the session. It was our usual practice, which seems to me that we don't always have to apply it strictly, because, let's be honest, which we ourselves do by our long work, sometimes we really, really discourage the possible legislators, but since this is not the bill, when their presence is mandatory, because of the possible amendments, I think we can plead on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5644	Mr. Kadić, I accept to withdraw the proposal, if it is in the interest of this house and there is no problem, I just want to say once again that the first Presidency was untouchable to us and may it be. Now they've become officers in the presidency untouchable, and neither have they, but here we go, I'm withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5645	We're taking a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5646	We withdrew the proposal, don't do it. Let's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5647	As I understand my fellow Banjac, we continue to work within this agenda. The opinion and the usual practice that the consideration does not necessarily require the presence of a proposing, although it is desirable. Therefore, we can continue our work. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5648	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what I have been asking you and trying for the past two years, is that you have equal access to all questions. I think that gymnastics with the suggestions whether it's prism or not is present from the session at the session is opposed. I'm really saying, because of the Rules of Procedure, last time we took the agenda off the appointment of the Council of Ministers, because no one was members of the Bureau. For you, Banjac was none of the people of the Presidency, of the advisors he was appropriate to explain, and that was the reason we didn't discuss. So, just remember for two sessions or three and perform the same, and as far as I'm concerned, you can create any policy you want, as well as within the break. Just that you have equal access and equal principle and that is your constitutional obligation, including replicas that are not appropriate to SDP MPs from a political party that should not be spoken of by her or her as co-workers here, especially nothing, because she was painting herself, which is her political party in the past period, but have the same approach. I'm giving up my break if we're going to discuss the draft of this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5649	Thank you very much. Let's move on. We're staying at point 4. Who's next to the word? Can we plead? Who is to be accepted as the basis for the draft law on BiH's distinctions as a basis for the adoption of the proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? Abstained? Please, once again, please, who's in favor of this proposal, who's in favour of the bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's abstentioned? Of the 22 present, 20 is for, abstention 22. No one's against it. Ad.5. I'm putting the draft competition law on the table. Does he have a proposal? We still have the quorum. I'm opening a debate on item 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5650	Dear colleagues in this bill, for God's sakes, it's a draft and I'd say, good luck if it was a draft. I'd like some suggestions and some questions to the promoter. Some formulations, I must admit, are not quite clear, I don't know if they're others. In Article 4, where agreements are discussed, I read decadently what is here: “No and nothing in all agreements, between economic operators, associations and joint division, which are related: and under b) I read. Limitation and control of production, sale and purchase of goods, provision or use of market services, technical development, investment, etc. I understand that as if all agreements between economic operators, which are regulated sales and purchases of goods, are prohibited, etc. Which doesn't make sense to me, 34 I have to admit. I'm under the impression that there's something else that needs to be written here to make sure what it's really about. Not to repeat that from an opportunity in Article 5. About the monopolies activity, you also have sub-b. and sub-c. formulations, which, if read as they stand here in Decidence, could be said to be at least ambiguous, perhaps threefold and more thoughtfully interpreted. I would ask the Proposer to answer what he meant or possibly if this draft goes into the form of a proposal, that the processor specify the provisions, so that it is very clear what it is really about, because it makes no sense that the agreement does not allow the sale of birth and purchase of goods, it is absurd. We can discuss it, but I think we should.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5651	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to welcome this draft of the competition law and to come to the wallpaper in the Assembly, because this is a very important law, when it comes to regulating economic space in BiH, especially when it comes to the transition process we are experiencing right now, and it can have a very big impact on future privatisation, within BiH. That's why I think this should be a debate in principle and that basic remarks should be put in place, and they would relate from my point of view in fact that all things need to be defined a little bit more in detail. For example, when it comes to monopoly behaviour, or protection, prevention of monopoly action, it is certainly important to regulate the dominant position of any service provider and goods on the market, but I believe that it is necessary to define what is the dominant market. In Europe, it means, if there is 25% market coverage, etc. and based on such definitions, it is only then that the competition law and its action can be considered. It is the same when it comes to association, or magic, as it is now called popular and the protection of these associations. So my proposal is that this is an important law that should be taken into account in an emergency procedure, but that more precise elements should be defined, which will later be referred to by these committees, which will work to protect them so that they can also make more decident judgments. This is also for the protection of competition, but also for the protection of the existing BiH economy in the privatisation and transition process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5652	I also believe that the debate on this law is in principle, so I will not refer to individual members, but I would like to point out one non-sense to start with, concerns the decision of the competition council, as set out in Article 14, I think that the corrections would be done here, because the competition council numbers six council members, and decisions are made by the majority of those present by at least three council members. So decisions could be made by six councilmen. Decisions could only be made by two. I think there's some sort of correction that needs to be made, and I suggest that we look at it in a way. We also have a provision of Article 28 which speaks of the date of entry into force of this law. In fact, every law enters into force, such practice is eight days after publication. We have a specific situation here, I think you've read it. The member says the law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the BiH Official Messenger, and as far as possible by the law establishing the competent state court of BiH. We know there is no court of BiH. Therefore, this provision should be reformed 35, if the court is already missing, then the first part of this member should not, therefore, enter into force when a law on the establishment of a BiH court is passed. We know that in the draft of this, the foundation of this court has already been discussed in this House and that it has been withdrawn and that this law is being drafted in the OHR. This law will surely be very soon on the agenda of the House of Representatives, so that this will also be harmonised. In this law, I think it's inappropriate for such a provision to stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5653	Madam Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I think that the law is very necessary and I would just like to point out the possible fact that agricultural production in our country should be protected, at least as protected in the EU, so that we do not have an informal competition on our market, which is already present. Of course, I would also like to ask the promoter to keep this in mind, at least in the final and transitional provisions, unless it is possible to have it in the original text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5654	Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to discuss this law, which should certainly be one of the conditions for the creation of market and other conditions for normal functioning of economic operators throughout the BiH area. To talk about individual members, I have no intention, but it is certain that there are a lot of inaccuracies, not clear terms, where clear and acceptable terminology for certain provisions in individual members and individual names must be applied. The law certainly covered all the chapters in this area, which are in the laws of developed market economies in the laws of Europe, but I said there must be a clear definition of certain terms and terms, because by adopting this law, there are certain conditions for the free movement of goods and capital, and that I am created to say some other conditions for the economic functioning of BiH. I'd still say two or three remarks. The first observation, I think it's necessary to clearly determine what kind of competitive advice should be, from the point of view of the cost of this budget that we bring, because we usually know, when we make one machine, then when the technical apparatus starts, it's all different then, it costs us a lot. So that's where you should look at the size of the advice and its way of choosing it. I wouldn't suggest it now, but I'll make it more clear in the amendments. The relationship, relationship and competence between the competitive council and the competitive offices for consumer protection must be made clearer. It's been given a lot in general in some things, because it's figured out to the end, but I think what we're trying to achieve with this law has to be closed in one loop, so that it can work normally. I would not agree with that, Mrs Havel said, that we are binding the law into force with the court at BiH level. So I guess the economic operator, who does what he does or breaks this law, will answer to the court in the territory he's in. If we tie it up to raise all this to that court and what the competing offices are going to do, then 36, we're wrong and I don't think we should tie it up here at all and mention the court at BiH level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5655	I'm asking for seriousness. We're constantly working on the legal line, and there are 20 and 21 of us, and 22 of us, I'm asking you to bring this session to an end and this hour the quorum is asked. How many of us are there? - 21. You know the quorum takes us 22. I'm asking you otherwise, some of them make very strong proposals, very strong demands, and then they're either in session or not. Indeed, this does not affect a serious parliament, unfortunately I must say as your colleague and chairman. Is there anyone else to discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5656	The minister in charge is not here, but I would say that this is one of the important things within the White Paper, which has been promoted, one of the conditions that we have received when it comes to the work of a consulting working group, regarding the programme of measures to be taken in BiH, during this year, to come to this feasibility study, regarding the first possible degree of contractual relations with the EU. This law is in line with EU practice and it may be a bit of an unorthodox law, given our socialist legal practice, which requires that every issue be fully regulated. It is a modern law and provides for three areas in which it actually applies. It refers to agreements, forms that prevent free competition and ultimately those, political action and concentration. When it comes to the requirements you've heard here, which means when that market concentration is high, when that level is high, it depends on the branch of production. One is in the tobacco factory, the other is in the manufacture of the refrigerator, the third is in another branch and it varies, that degree of market economy, that is, the coefficient of market concentration, the dependence on the branch of which the country itself is concerned. That right will determine this body that's listed here. This law, as stated in the first article, defines only the principles and bodies that will implement it. I am reporting for not having a principle debate, but asking you to adopt a draft today and then, at the stage of the proposal, to make amendments to this text. So we don't waste any time, if it's just a matter of principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5657	Thank you very much, I've just made a note of myself, because we're just going to have a chance to give amendments to the bill, etc., but not wanting to come into your decision simply, I'm asking you, if this debate is surrounded, that we go to a statement. Is that okay? I ask you, who is it that this draft law goes in, the motioner, these remarks that we have made go to the promoter. Who's in? Of the 22 present – 22 for. Thank you. This is unanimously accepted. Ad.6. Draft law on archive construction and archive of BiH I call on the promoter, or debate, if anyone... 37
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5658	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have been asked by the promoter to give you some notes and I am Matko Kovačević, director of the BiH Archives. About the importance of this matter, which this law treats and the institution that it concerns, I don't think this House should be spoken of. I saw that you also confirmed with your unanimous adoption to enter the proposal, and I thank you for that. The archive, the National Archives of BiH, was founded on 12.12.1947, as an authority of the National Republic of BiH Presidency and with the full name State Archives. Under that name, along with some exceptions, as the Republic Archive has lived and worked for 50 years, to lose the prefix of the state, i.e. the republican and agreement, or the law on the organisation of the BiH Assembly's body and administrative organisations, at the end of May 96th and by the BiH Presidency's announcement of 31 May 1996, the archive continues to work as the BiH Archives. A month later, the Federation Archive was formed and earlier, the Bosnian Krajina Archives in Banja Luka remained the RS Archive, except for the three archives, the archive service was held in BiH by county, cantonal archives in the Federation and general archives in RS. Some specialized private archives are formed. I'd say a few important factors for law-making. In short. The passing of the law is, are the constitutional provisions that you have in the light of the law, that is, Article 1. The Constitution, Annex 2 to the Constitution, points 2 and 4 and Article 4. Point 4a and 4e The justification for what we are for, which we ask you to accept and adopt here is because we are working under the 1987 law, according to the law of a state that is no longer present, and entity archives and county-cantonal archives either have laws or are at the final stage of the adoption of their laws. Therefore, it is normal for the law, yes and the BiH Archives, to get its law. What is very important, which also justifies us both in the request and we are pleased that the decisions of the RS entity governments in the 7th month of the 11th month of the Federal Government confirmed the necessity and need of the establishment of such an institution at BiH level, of course with somewhat different functions than the earlier archives. What the BiH Archives should do and what its reduced functions are, you have in law worked out. I'll just tell you four or five important points in a short while. The basic function would be the BiH Archives, to guard, care and to use an existing structure that has been adding up for 50 years and more. The second is to worry and monitor the creation and preservation of the archive structure of the bodies of the joint you, the Council of Ministers, its bodies and bodies, the Presidency of the State. Its third function is interstate co-operation, because he is a member of the A category of UNESCO and is co-ordinated by interstate, inter-republic, international co-operation and internal co-operation within the BiH Archives. So that would be one of the functions. Fourthly, to coordinate the revitalisation of the archival service and provide assistance to other archives, because with a little more opportunities than international aid, etc. And that, in fact, especially when it comes to professions and human education. At the same time, not entering administrative or supervisory authority, it has no other archives or entity or cantonal-hungry. Of course, the archive should now be rebalanced according to the new one, especially in its management system, in its national structure, where 38 reflect employees in the Archive relatively, in relation to the situation in BiH, so it would be formed, in line with the organisation of ministries in the Council of Ministers and other similar institutions. Normally, it must be financed responsibly and necessarily, and this should be provided by the founder, namely from the Budget of BiH. I wouldn't speak any further here, because I'd like to give you a chance to say something, so I can answer that. The goal for which we bring it is if you allow two more minutes – I would read it, because I wrote it and I will finish it faster. The purpose of this law is to provide adequate protection and affordable use of this vast treasure, our and our world heritage. The good and needs of all citizens and peoples of this country, and the creation of a basic assumption for the normal operation and functioning of the BiH Archives as well as of all other archives and registrations, thus joining BiH with developed archive services. Who has an interest in such an archive working? Archival structure is an unquestionable interest of the state, its bodies and institutions, because it is a soup... in the organisation and organisation of government, interstate co-operation and others, and absolute inners of all citizens and users not just for scientific but even more practical, evidence purposes, especially now in the time of denationalisation, privatisation, privatisation and overall social transition. I can tell you that we had two Japanca in research last week. This week we have Kanađanin, Holanđanin, Englez, mostly now they are younger people in the role of helping revitalise the ruined BiH. Now here's where they work, today and yesterday, and they'll still be working for a few days. Experts from England who revitalise the Botnica Garden in the Earth Museum, because there is no such documentation as the Archives has, and not to say that every Sunday on dozens of requests from citizens and other legal entities, get answers and get legal, legal confirmations for the achievement of their legal and other constitutional rights, and today it is very much. These facts that are in the city, which the Archives keeps, are necessary for every citizen and he is fulfilling them, and it will be good if we can regulate all these obligations more decadently, both our and our founders. I stand by and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5659	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovačević. I think we're all aware of the quality of archive construction and needs, so I expect your engagement as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5660	I am truly grateful to Mr Kovačević, this has pointed out that the recent debate whether someone needs to clarify the draft law or not, shows that it really should, because let's say that most of the MPs from the RS have discussed this draft together and I am in charge of making some remarks on this draft here not only on my personal behalf, and now I have already partially heard the answers to these remarks that we have had. But I don't think it's too bad to say this, that this kind of bill on archive construction and the BiH Archives is basically acceptable, as a draft law-making plan, but I would point out here that our observations were that this future law should necessarily, clearly not ambiguously offer the following solutions. First, to specify that it is the law, which applies to BiH institutions, which you were just talking about. Then the Archive takes over all the previous archive construction of the previous BiH, so while it was still part of Yugoslavia and 39 treći, the law envisions and allows for co-ordination with entity archives and everyone else in BiH. This would be the case with a fundamental remark, so such a law would be fully acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5661	Is there anyone else to discuss signing up for?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5662	Thank you, and I'm glad you're in principle agreeable. I would just like to tell you that this law has been passed through the procedure of the profession throughout BiH. We work with our colleagues from the RS and at the level of all archives in the Federation and RS. He's been through as he is, and that's a proposal for a joint service of BiH or a profession even better said. Therefore, we will continue to work on it. This is the law on archive construction and the BiH Archives, according to Dayton, each archive has its own law and RS and the Federal even Cantonal. Svai canton has its own law, he can bring it. We are here as far as administrative and supervisory authorities are concerned, but we have very full cooperation and we have very much help in revitalization and especially through some international archive associations, which we are a member and what you said first. The archival structure is located in the BiH Archives and it is one of the basic functions to keep this building for all of us, for all citizens we keep it on and on and on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5663	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, on this side I would support this draft and, especially from this second announcement by the Director of the BiH Archives, the fact that a profession has just taken part in the preparation of the draft, I would like to express in some way and the satisfaction that a legal act is being passed and in the same extent of the satisfaction that I have obtained by reading this proposal, because I have recognized this profession in practice and by supporting this draft, the proposal that it goes into the procedure, to be the draft law on the Archive. I would point this out as a possible example, since we will have similar legal acts in the future, that acts in which the profession so to say have its part may be a relief to us in their adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5664	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I would like to give one suggestion that the proposer has in mind, given that a significant part of the archive building relating to BiH is located in neighbouring countries and still, it might well be possible in this law to foresee the possibility of our archives to co-operate, i.e. with this law of authority for such co-operation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5665	As far as I can tell, there's no record of a discussion to define the proposal for a conclusion. The House of Representatives accepts the draft law on the archive construction and archive of BiH, as the basis for the draft law, by delivering a stenogram of the debate to the promoter, so that suggestions and remarks are kept in mind when making the proposal. 40 Who's to suggest a conclusion? Now we have a quorum, I've defined the proposal for a conclusion. Please, who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5666	Look how we work. 22 - 22. This bill was passed. Ad.7. An innovative report on meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the VE Please report to the rapporteur. Mr. Prlić, point 7. Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5667	There is nothing new from the latest information, except yesterday's event when Parliament appointed the chairman of the Vijećaministar. Basically, two important requirements remain, and this is in the new report, the new rapporteur is listed and this is the adoption of the election law and the work of the Council of Ministers. The third group of conditions concerns the work of human rights institutions. There's some progress being made, some even working satisfactorily, these are two key conditions. With these two conditions met, I as foreign minister, although the case is now in the Parliamentary Assembly, with a high degree of security, so that we can then take appropriate measures and that BiH is on the agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly already in September, if that happens in the next week or two. If not, I think we're gonna lose this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5668	Thank you very much. I hope we have a better quorum there than here. Can I get you any information on this report? I'm opening a debate. There's no argument. We're getting to know this. Thank you very much. We have a report on BiH's participation in the 56th BiH delegation. The UN Human Rights delegation UNCKR's participation in Geneva, Mr. Jadranko again. That's what he read.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5669	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5670	Okay. Do you agree with this explanation? Ad.9. Answers to Agents' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5671	My koleginica and colleagues, I'd like to ask the next question. What is located in an area called PELIKAN in the Glamic municipality and why residents of the following villages Prijani, Podgreda, Hasanbegovci, Raićke, Dubrave, Milodeskovci, cannot reach their own estates, cannot even visit them, it is 140 households in six villages. I'd like to repeat once again what goes on in an area called Pelican? 41 Who took this area? What and for what purposes does he use it for, which is why these people can't even approach without saying that I can't get a glimpse of what they have, of what's theirs? I own some other documents in the area here, but I'll wait for an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5672	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5673	I thank, therefore, in BiH some of the authorities of the state have recently taken over institutions formed on behalf of the state. One of these institutions is the Independent Commission for Media and in the context of her work, I ask the next question. I ask the question, which is why certain electronic media, in this case I will say specifically, is about independent radio-television 99, but for two years, not making a decision by AMSSIA contests the right to expand the coverage of studio 99 broadcasting areas, which challenges one of the independent houses, a fair competition match in terms of media presentation in BiH, and another detail I want to say is the next. In BiH, when it comes to electronic media, there is so-called Media that are financed from budgets at various levels and media that do not have budget donations, or donations from the international community. Electronic media that have budgets also have the right to broadcast ads, i.e. advertising content, thus making additional revenues beyond budget revenues. I ask the question, whether it is the usual practice in the world or whether the budget users of the electric media should be disabled in advertising and the ads should be left exclusively to those electronic media that are not beneficiaries of the budget. This is one of the issues of the Commission for the Media, in its capacity to address the existence of a state commission, i.e. the state body of BiH and the regulatory commission in this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5674	I would ask the question, which institution could be in charge or have the responsibility to launch an initiative to review the behaviour of international institutions and organisations, which operate in BiH and which have employees in BiH who do not meet the obligations, obligations that are regulated by, say, entity laws, but since it is international institutions, whether the authorities or institutions or the relevant BiH ministries are obliged to, let me say that they are looking into this phenomenon for a start. We have almost faced some very devastating facts, that institutions that are now advocating the rule of law, the functioning of the legal system here with us, their behaviour, or their relationship with the relevant regulations, are failing what they themselves advocate. I don't know exactly, Mr. Chairman, the address, but here I am referring to whether it's the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or I don't know which one of these institutions, in any case, I believe it's not just an entity problem. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5675	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5676	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow Members, I would like to ask this High House to propose to our Council of Ministers to form an institution that would protect human rights and, under the international agreements adopted, on human rights and freedoms, of course, the European Convention. Since we guarantee the Constitution a very high level of human rights, it would be good to form an institution that would sanction a violation of such rights. I think it's the interest of all citizens in the entire BiH area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5677	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like to ask some questions, which are not common on a daily basis. Exactly, I come from Herceg-Bosnian County, it's the Federation. Lately in the county, there has been a massive replacement of county leaders, Mayor Ivić, Prime Vlada Mihaljević, Interior Minister Ante Barišić, Minister of Justice Babić. In my opinion, it is by OHR, in my opinion not critically, not analysed, some arguments have been made, which I still think are not standing and somehow asking myself, and I am now asking this Parliament one question. Whether this calls into question the normal functioning of these legal segments, the area – the county – and whether they are challenged by their legitimacy and the electoral meaning that is thus embodied. I think it's exaggerating, that these areas are kind of maltletting. Namely, there are some cases that refugees, or returned exiles, are not given enough attention, which is not in my opinion, because in Herceg-Bosnian County, especially Grahovo, Drvar, Glamoc, 7-8 thousand Srbin were returned, which in no case can justify claims that exiles are not given attention. Also, apartments are detached and exiled. So I'm asking this question both to you and to myself and to the public. Is this about one abuse of these areas, one treatment, which, on the legal side, even does not stand on the moral side and may have a bit of an offensive meaning. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-07-0.u5678	Thank you very much, someone else. If not, I'm finishing this session, you'll get a notice, about the next 23rd session, she's already in preparation. The sitting is closed at 4:15 p.m.
