ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5495	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 21st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I suggest we hear the Bosnian Herzegovina anthem. In addition to the MPs, the meeting invited the presidents and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the US Embassy in BiH, representatives of the FAR project, was also invited to the session, as well. Spasoje Tuševljak, appointed by the BiH presidency as BiH's chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Representatives of public communications funds were also invited. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work of the House of Representatives. According to the secretariat's report, the session is attended by 33 MPs. From Federation of BiH 20 and RS 13. The absence of the session was announced by Ivo Mijačević, Raifa Alagić, Suada Muminagić and Hamdija Kulović. Dear gentlemen, I suggest we get started. We have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Before the agenda, I call on Mr Rijad Raščić, who has already received the mandate by our decision to make a solemn statement. I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5496	I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5497	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5498	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5499	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5500	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5501	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5502	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5503	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5504	And protect the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5505	Congratulations. For this session, we received a proposal only one item on the agenda, which is the confirmation and appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm putting the agenda on the table and I'm asking all those who want to discuss it. Here you go. Who's for the proposed agenda? Is anyone against it? This proposal has been adopted. Of the 33 present, 30 voted in favour. We're moving on to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, you have received a decision from the BiH Presidency on the appointment of Prof. Dr. The Spasoja of the Tuševljak for the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. With the decision you received a short résumé of the proposed candidate, please, I don't think there's any need for us to read it here in particular. I invite Mr. Tuševljak to submit his exposés to Dom. I'm asking you to step outside for a microphone. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5506	Dear gentlemen, I thank you all for the attention and time you have given in the previous period, in all these circumstances that have been happening and the processes that have been taking place around the procedure for the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given the circumstances in which all this is happening and where we live and the marked crisis in political relations, which, in my court, is more generated in the last days and months and in recent years by some economic problems we have than is generated by political contradictions and conflicts and the lack of understanding of parliamentary parties and political forces in BiH, I am now in circumstances that are not entirely and ultimately defined, at least for the following reason. By studying closely all BiH documents, the powers of the Council of Ministers and the tasks which I, as the future chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and my colleagues on the team, and you know very well what this structure is and what its competences are, I am in a dilemma, which I must, as a responsible man, declare to this esteemed House and discuss here. In the previous period, we had various consultations with all the political factors in BiH, mostly with everything, better to say mostly with everything and with, of course, representatives of international organisations, because the international community is certainly a very important factor here. Until today, these consultations are not over. They are not finished because I did not get from the Bosniak side of the official recommendation and proposals for appointing and proposing the structure of the BiH Council of Ministers here to parliament. Since I don't think any program can be implemented without a team and without agreement and consensus on that team, I'm asking you for suggestions and suggestions on what to do. Yesterday, I sent Mr. Izetbegović, as president of the most numerous and most influential political parties by the Bosniak people and who has the most representatives here in Parliament, a request and a letter for these final consultations and preparations for proposing the Council of Ministers of BiH, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I didn't get an answer to the phone requests from my assistants who helped me during this period from Mr. Hajrić, I think I'm speaking correctly, information has been received that Mr. Izetbegović doesn't have time. Now this esteemed House, representatives of parliamentary parties and clubs, I am asking for an opinion and an opinion on the matter. Thank you. To point out, as regards consultations and proposals by Croatian parliamentary parties, I have received proposals and a degree of consensus and consensus that these proposals should be supported and accepted by representatives of the Croatian people, by the Serbian bloc, too, there is one list of proposals and one structure that can be considered defined, although of course there are certain disagreements between parts of parliamentary parties on the structure of that list, but that is so in parliamentary life and that is, of course, normal. I expect here suggestions now, expect suggestions and expect, of course, help and well-meaning to solve these problems. Personally, I think that there are probably good intentions for everyone that maybe there wasn't enough time to articulate all these ideas and interests of various political parties and factions, but I'm always open to conversations and I'm ready, 4 of course, for compromises, which basic idea and basic visions, my basic visions of the mission and the tasks of the Council of Ministers of BiH would not question, so far so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5507	Ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I have here to respond and simply focus attention on constitutional positions, the process of appointing the BiH Council of Ministers' mandate and only the BiH Council of Ministers. I understand that Mr. Tuševljak, because of the circumstances you know, does not know exactly the relations between the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliament, so I will have to remind myself of the constitutional positions of one, the other and the third institutions. The second thing is that there are political parties in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, there are no Bosniak, Croatian parties, and there are MPs in the House of Peoples who have been elected as representatives of the people. Speaking of this position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency, I will remind, as the Constitution of BiH states, that the BiH Presidency is appointed by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who will take office, following the approval of the House of Representatives, and will be appointed by the foreign minister, foreign trade minister and other ministers, if necessary, who will assume the duty to approve the House of Representatives. Therefore, the BiH presidency appoints the chairman and assumes the post, after confirming that appointment of the House of Representatives, it is the first step. We're at that first step today. So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today has to declare whether it confirms the appointed candidate, appointed by the BiH Presidency or not, only after that, appointed chairman, who has received confirmation of his appointment, in consultation with political parties at the House of Representatives, appoints ministers who also confirm the House of Representatives and who assume their duties after being confirmed by the House of Representatives. Of course, the confirmed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers will take account of the appointment of ministers, of obtaining the necessary parliamentary majority and of reaching a parliamentary... party to support it. It's clear things, and we're asking that we stick to the procedure. It is not the BiH presidency's role to discuss with the prime minister's candidate. It is the role of the prime minister, in co-operation with political parties and representatives of political parties' clubs. In short, all the conditions exist for the predstavnički of Representatives to declare whether or not it confirms the appointed candidate for the BiH Council of Presidents. As one of the important stages in this business is to listen to both the exposés and the candidates' intentions to do what they intend to do at the head of the BiH Council of Ministers, and therefore I ask that, without further ado, what is the obligation of the House of Representatives to enable the House to play its role, then follow the remaining steps in the light of the outcome of this first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5508	Is there anyone else who can answer that? I've got to go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5509	Dear Members of the Parliament, esteemed guests, I want this whole situation going on with the Council of Ministers of BiH, if nothing else, to explain it to the public, and they say let it speak, so the people will understand who it is. I hope that each of us here is clearly presented to the people and the public of BiH, as well as to the international public, and that it is quite clear whose intentions they are. Please, when a memo came here 15 days ago with candidate Tihomir Gligorić and one sentence to appoint Mr Gligorić, of course we all agreed not to do such a thing, without one programme, without exposure and without candidates. I don't know why, except for your eloquent intentions, people forget that a month or two ago we passed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which says it's a collective body that has six completely equal people, each of which can be chaired. Of course, the whole dance and the scenario are entangled around the chairmanship, because it is obvious that there are, and it is clear that there are also those who don't care about either the economic or any other prosperity of BiH, but care about the barren political games and the complicated situation in BiH anyway. So, gentlemen, at the time I thought it was extremely important that we don't get one man competent, but six, six very capable, competent people, who will know and want and be able and have quite enough results in the work so far, who will guarantee it. It's below the amount of cynicism to suggest, accept the candidate's proposal, and then he's not given the personnel he's going to have in his program, it's below the cynicism dose, you've heard me well. Gentlemen, what are you running for? If the candidate is not supported and there are reasons for this, then it should be made quite clear and not run away from that fact that we are looking for a better one. We should always, if possible, find the best solution. I'm not ready, as a man, to listen to the exposés and the program here half-time, because after that I'm going to ask you a question and who are your staff, Your Honor, that you'll have a guarantee with me that you can also realize what you're offering. Of course, this moment of these footage is not from the Bosniak people's order. Why? And I wonder why? Who cares, and I wonder who cares? Why is it all happening in BiH? If we are looking for the best solution, then it should have been done on that step guaranteed by the Constitution, which is the BiH presidency. I think the crisis is very deep, and I think that the crisis is produced and what I don't want, I don't want to take part in any of these arranged, agreed and games and opinions, because with me, gentlemen, I can't have an opinion or attitude. I bring it on the basis of arguments. So, once again, if it's the candidate who doesn't deserve the trust of the people of the BiH presidency, why did they keep it a secret, why didn't they solve it there? If this is a candidate who has their trust, who, for whom, as the party leaders who have the parliamentary majority here, have not given him their candidates, because they are also party presidents and cannot deny it? What do we want now? We want to discuss the program and we don't know who's going to be people in the exposé, and we don't know who's going to be the people doing it. We will, as later on, and we know that we have sought the Council of Ministers of BiH as a collective body, which will be competent and which will be able to fulfil in this difficult time the tasks that the peoples of BiH and the citizens expect from that authority. I want to tell you that in this whole procedure, the will of the people has been bypassed, deliberately or unintentionally, and I think that first more realistically, the will of the people has been bypassed, by the vote confirmed in the elections. I expect the 6 elections to be held, so that they respect the will of the people and that the will of the people is implemented through certain functions and peoples, that is possible in BiH somewhere, and somewhere not possible. Gentlemen, as long as it is not possible somewhere, where it is not possible, resistance will be created, and that is bad for both the people and for the people of BiH and for BiH. I don't want that to happen with any people, or any political group, I'd like it to be quite democratic and quite different. So I think that the crisis is very serious, very difficult, and I think, honestly, that this Parliament has to think very carefully about whether the solution to early elections is at all levels, and I think it is. To agree before that, whether BiH really will, and when such elections pass, have a chance to implement the people's will in the election results or not. If not, then it should be said that there is something else here on the stage, rather than the democratic processes that we talk about all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5510	I beg you, I'll call for a hearing, and then I'll ask Mr. Genjac to lead the next meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, our esteemed guests, the truth works and the public works, here, indeed, I thought I should say a few words. We had one candidate, dr. Tihomir Gligorić, whom we should have spoken of and after a long, long preparation and a long, long time, now I see, unfortunately, lost, this man is, unfortunately, exhausted. I'm so sorry to have to say this. I don't know this man at all, so I believe that, as a man and as a party member, or as an agent here, so I've come forward, I have the right to say what I think about all of this. When we had Professor Dr. The Spasoja of the Tuševljak, which we have the honour of hearing and seeing here, has always been done, I will not say the press, but it has always been considered, and even by some means of communication and it has written that this house is not working properly, that this house is obstructing many things, that people who have been chosen, so I want to believe from the people, and so I am watching you here, gentlemen, and I am looking at myself, simply do not do what is right and fast what we should do to establish a democratic, quality state of BiH, for which I am not only declarative, but I really advocate, after everything that has happened and then comes to the fact that this man that I am seeing for the first time, and I am glad to see him, stands in some sort of a dilemma whether at all to be a candidate of something inconclusive, vague, unclear, where he may be more obstructed than to help in his work. I personally think that, as a man, no matter how capable I am of hearing, he will be able to do nothing for this country unless he has a team of people who need to do it. This body, just a reminder, insisted here to hold a bar meeting with the BiH presidency, we respected it, thanks to the endurance of individuals, not to my personal, perseverance of my friends and colleagues and colleagues who, indeed, had, and I believe that meeting was a turning point in our work, and so I expected it. After that meeting, the first candidate we mentioned here, Mr. Tihomir, was practically removed from the agenda and the time has been extended. I personally felt that we should do this job as soon as possible, because it falls on our backs and is constantly said that we are not doing at least effectively and in time what he gave us to do. I'm personally behind the candidates. I apologize to them as a man, because I don't think it's right that they've been put in the fire, that they've tried to do through them for the good of this country 7 and that now they're practically the people who stand there the way they are. Personally, I'd feel really bad if that's how my name was played. For the sake of the public, I must say here that this house is not even a thorn to blame for extending the choice of the man we were supposed to raise our hand for or against today. I'm responsibly saying that other instances either didn't want to or didn't know, or, I don't know what term to use, couldn't, see, the easiest thing to do is do their job that was supposed to be done. Here I felt it was necessary to go out and say that the College of the House of Representatives has done all that has been done unanimously and that it has been unanimous for every proposal and for every term that has come, either from the BiH presidency, or from the international community. This really has to be said. I really ask the Lord, one and the other, to make it clear here who is doing what and who is responsible for what. I'm undermining this one more time, only for the public's sake, because I think the College is all the way, and the House that did his part of the work behind it. What is happening today, I hope Mr. Tuševljak will plead, is in this situation as it is, I don't know if a much better job awaits him later. I don't want to be an evil prophet in any way, to say whether he stays as a candidate or not, because I don't know which other direction to point here. I thank you and, behold, that's my contribution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5511	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow Members, we at this session today, where we have only one item on the agenda, should indeed make one significant decision for BiH. I would only remind you that a few days ago, Mr. Šiling, mediator for BiH... for BiH, among other things, said: "Yes and because BiH institutions are not working, because they are not doing their job, BiH has cooled down with many people who have accepted it with their hearts and I fear they will regret the post-war period, the chance it did not take." It is absolutely certain that in this state, at this stage of one of the important institutions of BiH, the Council of Ministers, that we are only supporting, here, the expressed fact that we will regret the post-war period and the missed chance, above all, when it comes to economics, recovery, reconstruction, construction, etc. We opened this agenda today, and I wouldn't be asking now a question mark, whether we're going to move on, whether someone's going to give up, withdraw, or something like that. Until the beginning of this session could be talked about. The sitting with this agenda has begun and I don't think anyone serious right now has any right to give up. That is why I would ask, before we hear a candidate for the Prime ministarski's Council, before we hear what he thinks is most important in the next period, in the next half-year, to do this advice, not to prejudge or call on some evil spirits. I would ask you to rise above daily news, this is Parliament, we are MPs, and none of what I have read or heard in the media will affect me today. My decision will be influenced by what you, dear friends, say behind this pay phone today about the program of the prime minister and about him personally, not what these or those newspapers wrote, from this or that intention. It would be even very and unpopular if we were to step in with the newspaper here today. We here today need 8 to pollute with the facts that should be presented here. A colleague of Banjac is only on one condition right, when he insists that the candidate read the composition of the Council of Ministers as well. He would be right, only on condition that there is a political will to do so today. But if there is no political will, then it remains only possible for us to respect the BiH Constitution. If in the BiH Constitution, the Representative Council accepts or rejects a candidate for the BiH presidency, and then elects ministers, in consultations with political parties, which again accepts or rejects the Council of Representatives. It's by the Constitution, and if there's no will to do otherwise, then it's only possible to do it that way. I would ask you to understand today that, apparently, we have to work that way and to understand each other, one thing I want to point out. Here today is to check our trust with the BiH presidency members and here is their responsibility, to understand each other, because they had one, so they had another proposal, so the second proposal, as far as I was informed, was confirmed once again. We have a letter and a proposal from the BiH presidency, signed by his hand, order that the name of the candidate for the chairman be published in the Official Journal of BiH. With note, today, by choosing a fellow Tuševljak for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he does not become the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It only happens when this council accepts the Council of Ministers. If he is so well, under quotes, elected by ministers and if this council does not accept his proposal, he and his proposal will fall. So I would ask those who have reservations according to some proposals so far, to understand this fact and to engage in this period of work, until the next assembly, until the next meeting, if the candidate passes today to help him choose the team behind whom we will stand. If we don't stand behind that team, I repeat again, his choice today won't mean anything, he and the team will fall, and we'll get involved in the next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5512	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5513	I, of course, Dokić, have no intention of responding to what he said, but it is quite clear in psychology that there is a halo effect and based on an opinion that man does not express, which I say in the fact that no one here has mentioned any media, at least I have not heard it, or referred to any media views regarding this problem, that is one thing. Secondly, it is quite clear to a respected colleague that a serious programme has, apart from personnel, and some other data and analysis, so that he can be tried and tried. I wasn't saying that I should today and I'm asking not to be put in my mouth what I didn't say, I wasn't saying that today we should talk about the composition of the Council of Ministers, but about the staff with whom he plans to count Mr. Tuševljak, in order to realize what he means and say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5514	Thank you very much, with an apology, I give Mr. Lozančić my word. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5515	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, I find it a little unusual today, since the beginning of this session and the introduction, I expected that we have received in the material, that this valid decision by the BiH tripartite presidency, signed by the chairman of the BiH presidency. I assume you all got in the materials that at either 77 or 76 session you made a decision on the appointment of Professor. The Spasoja of the Tuševljak for the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. From the very initial step, we were expected to hear the exposés and ultimately decide. Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak did not convince me that he accepted the appointment. Now I don't know if the BiH presidency members made a decision that today's candidate should be confirmed here, did not even accept the appointment, but subsequently asked for consent from BiH presidency members and parliamentary parties. In this part, I would also correct Mr Tuševljak and help that the BiH Parliament has two homes and that this is a House of Representatives, is not the House of Peoples and that it has not been given the consent of Croatian representatives, many of the parties that have most of the Croatian voting authorities and I come from the Croatian party and we have not even established and we have not discussed consent. I think the procedure is famous, although the appointed Mr. Tuševljak accepts, he can go here for confirmation, and if he gets most of it, then there is a further procedure for the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. Therefore, I think, either insecure from the BiH presidency or from candidates, the BiH presidency which has appointed a candidate who has not accepted the appointment, then I really don't know it, we are entering the six or seven months of functioning of the state without the Council of Ministers. It may continue to work better if we don't get to the Council of Ministers. It is expected to respect the procedure and to plead here whether a man who has not accepted this appointment is truly appointed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5516	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I think today at the House of State is a job to confirm the appointment of the proposed mandate by the BiH Presidency and to discuss afterwards the composition of this presidency, the programme and all that, and I respect the candidate's demands to collectively, i.e. include all the potential for the assembly of this programme, to hear the opinions of the candidates they will be working with, so that it is a comprehensive process. BiH needs the Council of Ministers, for countless reasons, for equal participation in the Stability Pact, for full participation in the SECI European Corporate Initiative, this is one of the main conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, that it has its own state government or council of ministers, to strengthen its state institutions. The proposed candidate has been appointed by an authorised representative and we have this proposal here. The proposed candidate fulfils the qualifications necessary for the performance of this function, he is a professor from the field of economic sciences, he is also a referencer, i.e. he also has references from his future work. The proposed candidate has been decoded as an independent candidate. A candidate who doesn't belong to any political party. The proposed candidate, although born in Sarajevo during the aggression, did not fire at Sarajevo and that is reliable and that is one of the basic reasons, which personally identifies me to support this candidacy. He didn't even visit camps around BiH during wartimes. He worked and worked in economics, his work and his profession. In keeping with all these reasons, I think we should give this proposed candidate a chance to get ahead of this home in a short time with a list of candidates and 10 programs to fill in that way. We will have a state institution that has to take important tasks and obligations that are now unwarranted at the BiH State Presidency, as the BiH presidency also performs the government's role. For these reasons, I think I need to support this candidacy, and what I may be missing personally is the fact that I check for RS representatives to support this representative. It wasn't clear here, and it could create some confusion. On the other hand, after all these references, and after I personally checked what Mr. Tuševljak was doing, I found nothing that would refuse to support this candidacy in a transparent way or asscars, as it is said in Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5517	Dear fellow MPs, I was a great pessimist until a moment ago, at least when it comes to this item of the agenda, until, behold, I heard Mr. Bičakčić, Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH. I wish the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were here, and at least he had discussed it this way, and surely the MPs would have been relieved of this task. I will not mention at all what they mean and what it would mean for BiH to do this job today, however, I have answered the discussion for the simple reason why, not wanting at all to prejudge the vote, anything else, but I have the feeling that the discussions from the beginning have gone one wrong direction, as is not foreseen by the BiH Constitution. In this context, I would just say the following, that the BiH presidency, according to the Constitution, has done its part of the job, has appointed the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The chairman appoints ministers as needed, and normally these ministers will take office after they are confirmed by the House of Representatives. All conditions have been met and, in fact, according to the Constitution, what should have been done by this moment. It is our next move, by voting, to confirm or not confirm this appointment. I, as an MP, wish I could choose a variant, and I would, if I were to propose a candidate, Mr. Professor. A Tuševljak, at least in the shortest lines, if ready, has exhibited his exposés here and after that, as provided for by the Constitution, approaches the voting procedure. Given the appointment of ministers, he appointed ministers after the act. So I don't see any reason to continue with this part of the procedure that we've already entered. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5518	I went out again just to suggest that we start doing this job on the agenda, and I think it's time that the candidate for the chairman, as they say, brings out his exposés and then we talk about both the candidate and the program. This is how we prejudge things.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5519	Thank you. I personally agree and ask the candidate to submit the exposés.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5520	Dear gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished guests, are the strange ways of the gentleman's staff in BiH. I have to say, with that 11 that I'm going to try to predict the outcome of this, and not with the intention of causing controversy, as often as so far, when it comes to agenda points that have caused different views. What bothers me is what is illogical, and everyone is saying in BiH that the Council of Ministers of BiH is an important institution, which should work, that there is, that as soon as possible, that there are no members of the BiH Presidency today on this Representative Council. I know that there will be an answer not under the Constitution, you do not have to come, etc., but I think that what Mr. Bičakčić said about the proposed candidate I would like to hear from the BiH presidency member or the chairman, this time Mr. Izetbegović, and if the members of the BiH Presidency, I repeat this again, were sincere in proposing Mr. Tuševljak, there is no way that he will not get confirmation on this representative council, for reasons, which is why Mr. Alija Izetbegović, president of the SDA, which is Mr. Živko Radišić, President of the Socialist Party and Mr. Ante Jelavić HDZ, and the three parties have a majority in this Parliament and can confirm any solution. I want to see here the faces of successful prime ministers or defeated proposals. Why not, I can't understand, really, that the BiH Presidency is sending us two sentences saying that Mr. Tuševljak is unanimous, etc. And I don't think Mr. Tuševljak should go with his program or his exposé, but we should confirm or not confirm. If we can confirm Mr. Tuševljak, he'll be thanking the staff, who'll let him write his program. Please, and may the MPs all ask. Which means it's the base of an exposé where one side doesn't want the personnel to fill it. What does that mean? He can Tuševljak us that BiH will advance in economic development and I don't know what rate of economic development we will finance the construction of a cosmic ship if you offer him one or that. One thing I would very much like to stress is that it is not good, believe me, that it is not good, no matter how much anyone looks forward to the failed mandates, it is not good that we get such a signal, because the initial proposal for the president of the Council of Ministers goes from Serbian member of the BiH Presidency, Mr Radišić, to go the way it has been so far. It's not good, I mean it's not a good initial political input for BiH's democratisation and trust building. It leaves one bitter impression on the position of the people. Mine was an observation, let's say by a Serbian member of the BiH presidency, which came out directly and told me we have more candidates, please choose. It's never happened before. I will see if the other promoters will offer more names for each ministerial post from different political options and even offer non-party ones. Why is the Serbian side in a position to offer non-party people, did anyone wonder in BiH? Why? Will it really make the U.S.A., HDZ give up on its people? Are we able, as parliamentarians, to apply the election result and the will of the citizens? Are we or aren't we? And I think that we candidates should not push into something that is not good, to read the exposés, but to confirm the appointment of members of the BiH presidency, and then further in agreement with parliamentary parties to work on a team of the Council of Ministers and put together a programme to act on. It might even be good if the BiH presidency members had told us what they saw and that the structure of the candidates and his references had just made him propose, because of this future of BiH, not that one day we were listening to one story, another day a second story. So, I don't think we should listen to the exposés, but just to be clear, because the candidate has made it clear that one of the consultants doesn't propose names to fill out the Council of Ministers, but after Mr. Bičakčić's statement, I think things are quite different, unless it's prepared, and I'm going to tell you what happened to me publicly, that this situation is happening so that nothing happens. To open up 12 increased possibilities for international arbitration, because arbitration is tied to the Council of Ministers, and here we are today to confirm whether it is one or the other. I don't think the second position is good for BiH. I think we need to discuss all things with each other and pave the way for a more successful development of BiH, we here together, with great gratitude to the representatives of the international community for helping us where we cannot agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5521	Since we have really two conflicting opinions and suggestions here, we have one for exposure, and the other is against exposure, the third opinion I think can't even be, I think I can give to vote on this home who's in favour of going to the exposé.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5522	I think we're really out of the way and this is a little bit of a bump and we need to find some measure here, I, even more, I mean, maybe it'd be good to take a 15-minute break to figure out how to keep this going. We can't force a man to do his thing. Secondly, I think Mr Špirić, I want this opportunity to make it quite clear, if the members of the BiH presidency have so much trust in us, here, we will now check. Let's see if there's any trust in us. Is it an arranged activity, or is it something else, so there is, gentlemen, a possibility. Now I want to publicly tell you, if you need to give support to the candidate, here, that I also give Mr. Bičakčić a chance to hear another opinion. If you need to give the candidate support like this, Bianko, let me say, no personnel and no programs, I'm in, because there's another step. When he comes with the ministers and the program, if we shoot down, so does he. Therefore, gentlemen, we are afraid to do so here and now. Let's see, so there's a possibility there's another possibility. When we get the personnel and the program, we see that that's not it, we don't give consent here, we fall, what can we do, fall. He'll have to, if he gets such support today, he'll have to, gentlemen, work hard to deal with political parties to get to the top quality personnel, to make an extremely high-quality program, because we'll appreciate it all. So they have two steps. I think it's a good suggestion to see, check that trust with our presidency and confirm the candidate and give him a chance to make and program and find the personnel. My proposal is that this one, quite clear, is to vote on trust based on that letter of two sentences.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5523	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5524	Appreciated representatives and guests, respecting all that has been said so far and especially by appreciating the views expressed by individual parties here, I would like to inform you that the HDZ Club will vote as proposed by the BiH Presidency, because I do not think that the BiH Presidency's dignity should be tested in 13 such a way that we are now discussing, that we do not accept the proposal, which has been proposed this way for a long time. I think, too, that we should give a chance, in fact, that we are obliged to give Mr. Tuševljak a chance to present his programme and only after that to vote. In front of HDZ, we will support the BiH presidency's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5525	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, allow me to request on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club the candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to plead, whether he is willing to submit his exposés after receiving the mandate, because it is his obligation in front of this high home, or whether it should be considered as a step and an exposé of discussion, which, in terms of constitutional and overall political relations in BiH, did not look like the candidate for the chairman. Everything else that happened, for us from the SDP, is part of the reconciliation that you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party of the SDS, SDA, HDZ, should have done past this home. Therefore, please, on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, that the candidate for the mandate be declared whether he will submit the exposés. If the candidate can't handle the exposé, and he doesn't want to endure the exposés, we're looking for a 15-minute break, because we consider this an unsupervised discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5526	Dear colleagues, I will remind you of these two steps again. The first step, confirming the appointment of the BiH presidency. Step two, confirming the appointment of ministers appointed by the chairman. In case the proposed ministers are not accepted by the House of Representatives, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers has not lost support, he has the opportunity to offer both new candidates several times. Therefore, the appointed prime minister, whose appointment has been confirmed, has the opportunity to propose multiple times to the ministers and the fall of his proposal on the minister, does not mean his fall. For this reason, in this first step, to confirm the appointment of mandaters, an exposure is necessary. It is one of the elements on which MPs should plead. In the second step, the composition and names of ministers, which are proposed, are necessary. I, of course, also as a member of the College, and as an MP, have no intention at all of forcing or asking candidates to submit exposés, but I believe that this is also a common procedure and a correct attitude towards the House of Representatives and what would contribute to a more quality statement of MPs in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5527	Here you go, Mr. Špirić, you have a request for a break. We'll give you 20 minutes off. I'd like Mr. Špirić to brief us on the break. [[PAUZA]] Okay, then we continue the point that we voted here with an absolute majority, confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I ask you to keep this in mind and my proposal, with your support, is to make clear on this point, to hold 14 votes who is in favour, and who is against this proposal of the BiH Presidency, with an individual statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5528	We ask the candidate to plead as a candidate... but give me a chance... [[Speaks from the site and is partially heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5529	This point isn't about putting up with the exposé. I'd put it as the second item of the agenda, if we vote it or not, that's the item of the agenda that we adopted, in my opinion. Here you go. I answer now, I read again. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. If a man is elected, then let him endure the exposés, we adopt the exposés, we don't adopt the exposés, etc. That's my suggestion, and, uh, here, if there's any more needs to be discussed, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5530	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to join Mr. Tokić's request in a different way. Namely, the BiH presidency has proposed a candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers chairmanship, and it is logical, of course, that a consultation has been carried out with him. However, this is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in the only stand we have heard here today from the presidential candidate, it was not clear whether it was still behind this candidacy. I believe that in front of the House of Representatives it should be very clearly indicated here, and the story of the exposé is one of the important things, which, though, remains, I would say, another kind of attitude that the chairman, or candidate, may say, but also not have to, but, of course, the position on whether or not he will submit the exposés can also significantly define the vote in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5531	Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the situation we are in. If Spasoje Tuševljak had now said that he could handle the exposés, not knowing who the other two would be rotating in eight months, that would define my view of the Tuševljak, that would be a different story. Spasoje Tuševljak is not a mandater, remember, BiH has no government, he is chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers for eight months. Tell me where it says it. We confirm or do not confirm the BiH presidency's proposal. If the proposal passes, Spasoje, as the confirmed chairman, discusses with the parties, team and discusses with them something that will be realised together, and remember what it was like the last time Mr Silajdžić submitted his exposés, Mihajlović came out and said we agreed and agreed. So it's got to go in sync. As we now give to a man, let him define himself as a candidate, I will not influence, but here we need to know exactly what we choose, whether we choose the Prime Minister or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we stick to the Constitution in that sense. Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5532	Gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, allow me to state our position on behalf of the Members' Club – the representative of the SDP of BiH. First, Mr. Chairman, at the beginning of today's session, you gave a 15-minute break while awaiting a candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, and thus did not preserve the dignity of the most legislative authority in BiH, this parliament. Secondly, when asked why last time it was removed from the agenda of the appointment of Mr Gligorić, you explained because the candidate does not have the support of the international community and the question arises whether we are choosing the UN Secretary-General or the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Third, in his address to Parliament, today's candidate, Mr. Tuševljak said, quote: "There is no agreement of the Bosniak side, as a candidate". Of course, the SDP of BiH does not think or act in the categories of sides, but in the categories of interest and equality of all peoples and citizens of BiH, as we have undertaken to act in Parliament, all equal peoples and citizens, I repeat. The SDP is expressing its concern over the failure of the BiH Council of Ministers for so long, given the country's overall economic and political situation and this situation further destabilises BiH, especially BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. That is why this way of working, proposing candidates, this way, by the BiH presidency, is not and will not have our support. The way in which the mandates and the formation of the council are elected, in this way, with the statements we have heard in Parliament so far, does not guarantee the effectiveness of the BiH Council of Ministers, as a team that will ensure stability and efficiency, economic prosperity and admission to the Council of Europe. In this way, the candidate comes from that concept of government that has proved destabilizing and that has no minimum confidence of all peoples and citizens of BiH. Because, the BiH presidency and the human policy it leads by formula, you stay out of my candidate, and I won't argue with your candidate, we've seen that formula doesn't work since '90. A year to this day. That is why this is why the election of the BiH Council of Ministers' chairman has no support for the SDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5533	I owe one explanation to Mr. Bogičević. I quoted exactly what a member of the BiH presidency and chair of our joint meeting said for the last time, and indeed, if my authority is not enough, I am asking my colleagues from the College for this support, therefore, to stay with what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5534	I am really sorry that people deliberately or intentionally misread the highest document of BiH, which is the Constitution and of course it is used for political purposes and thus deceives the public and that is the only reason I am re-applying for the word. Gentlemen, in the Constitution of BiH it literally writes, that is Article 5, point 4.a. "The chairman and ministers together form the Council of Ministers", together they form, sir. So if there's not one minister, there's no Council of Ministers. That's right. I didn't write that constitution. Whether it's funny or not, I don't know, but that's the way it is. Gentlemen, I see you're also talking about exposure here. We're going to have to define here what the exposé is. Exposes, gentlemen, I'm sorry I'm going to use that now, just to say, it's part of the exposure that's based on 16 on some document that already exists, so explain some of its parts or directs particular attention to something. Since, gentlemen, we are fully aware that in Article 5(4)a. It says that the chairman and the ministers are together, they need to build a program from which to follow the exposés, and that can only happen when everyone knows who they are. That's what's gonna happen in step two. That's why I said here today, I, gentlemen, can accept, as an MP, that today I declare myself to be the candidate proposed by the BiH presidency, believing that they did well. In the second step, I'll see if they cheated on me, to apologize for the expression, or not, so I'll give it or not. And the fear of someone staying, not giving him Article 5, paragraph 4, because it's clear that they all work together as the Council of Ministers. So if there's not one, there's no Council of Ministers. This means, I expect, gentlemen, there is today at the same time a confirmation of the appointment, but it will clearly be seen from our position whether or not the BiH Presidency has support in Parliament. That's what you need to see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5535	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll be brief, I'll just say a few words. I think that the time, given everything done and our failures, is intentional or unintentional, I think it's time for us to do something today and elect the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Why? There are many speakers who have speculated, there are many speakers who have come here to speak, not to do something smart, but to campaign and even their image. Some of the ministers and some of the Demagogoggy Council??.. Gentlemen, if we have the BiH Presidency, then we have to believe in this Presidency and we have to leave this presidency, not as an idea, but as a fact, so I think, even from BiH as a state, we should go as a fact, as a reality. Whether we're going to change into future in this or that sense, it's another thing, it's a matter of politics, but for now that's the way we have to do our job. If the BiH tripartite presidency has given support to Mr Spasoje Tuševljak, I see no reason to question it. Therefore, if we were loyal, and we were, that we should stand behind this and that we need this decision of the BiH Presidency, signed by Mr Izetbegović, to support it, but to deal now with predetermining the BiH Presidency, to diverge its meaning, etc. I don't think it's moral, that it's not fair, and I don't think there's any reason for this issue to be delayed, and whether it's going to be later exposés or not, etc., that, probably, it should, but it's a matter of some other subsequent agenda points. But all in all, we have to back this up and I think we could do business here honestly and correctly, there's no other reason to do it differently, only if we want to play something here, any games, and I think we're mature that we can do this and we can do this job. The BiH Council of Ministers cannot earn and cannot work unless one millimeter per millimeter goes forward. Let's pick the chairman and let him complete the proper body, and no, we'll look for everything at once, and we know that all of a sudden we can't even get it, then we'll always work and wait the other day, when it'll come D day to make it all over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5536	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think it's very important that we finally discuss the mandate. I believe that the past time of avoidance that we have before this House a debate on the candidate of the chairman, for the various reasons of 17 interpreters, thinking, thinking, and this multi-month crisis is not synchronised with the importance of this issue by the ruling political options, and I am happy that we can finally discuss the candidate today. As for the exposé. I think we've heard the exposés here very clearly. The candidate presented himself very vividly by a 15-minute delay, by inviting the chairman to submit the exposés, by answering the Shanerski, who, who, who, am I, and by exhibiting in advance support for his choice, we will then be given to the chairman and chairman of the Council of Ministers, on the basis of what is logical, and I will say one more thing about that logic. Prior to that, I would only like to remind esteemed lawyers of the constitutional provision, the BiH presidency will appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who will take over the post of approval by the House of Representatives, chairing the appointment of ministers. The chairman appoints ministers. And this house approves. It's just that much, for the sake of this gymnastics, which is where our lawyers come in here very often. But I think it's pretty clear here. It shows everything that's happened in the past. There was a discussion through the media about the candidate, not here. I'm happy to argue. It has been shown that political parties, in this thinking media perform by logic some in the morning and some in the afternoon. Little did the case shed light on the esteemed Bičakčić. There was also the need of HDZ, before this break, the express request, the needs of the exposé, because it is in every normal country, when the prime minister is appointed, when the director is appointed, when the cleaning lady is elected to the firm, he calls and talks to her and talks to her about his business future and it was a logical reaction of the HDZ to need an exposé, but it was a little illogical that HDZ said in his act, but we will vote for, regardless of the exposures. It doesn't make sense that today we have a prime minister here who is strongly opposed to the entity government of the RS. I resent that, Mr. Bičakčić, I particularly resent Mr. Izetbegović, which is proposed by the prime minister, as the Bosnian-Herzegovic politician, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who has not been provided in advance with co-operation with the government of an entity. But here, here opens a better perspective of co-operation with Bickocic's government, so we'll see how it works. It is not a feature of the candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers; it is not a qualification that should satisfy this people, in the current economic situation, that he did not shoot at the information one MP has, he did not shoot at Sarajevo. It's a highly located area. That is not enough qualification for the chairman of the Council of Ministers. For those for whom it is, let them vote for, that it is enough for our chairman, our prime minister, the first man of the BiH executive power, to have those qualifications. There is no Mr. Tuševljak support for members of different peoples and I fear that there is no support except for a group of people who are being painted so vividly today through the College, Genjac, Banjac, Skopljak, but very similar to the College and the 1990s. A year. Look, gentlemen, a '90 stenogram. A year. In the same way, you chose the government, you chose the people of that concept that inflicted the greatest evil on BiH, with the same argument, we cannot all at once.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5537	I ask you to stay at the point and on the topic. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5538	Allow me, this is a very important topic, there is no more important topic than the election of the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'll remind you all, and there are you who were and then, that with the same argument you made catastrophic mistakes. I will not be in debt, but I responsibly argue that choosing BiH's chairman-in-Office of the BiH Council of Ministers, in a concept depicted again, the agreement of the three oligarchs will not bring good to BiH and I am convinced that people here will not succumb to discipline and pressure and vote for what cannot bring good to any people and a total of BiH. If you select the chairman of the Council of Ministers from the SDA, HDZ, SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5539	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5540	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable fellow MPs – MPs, dear guests, indeed, after Mr. Tokić, I cannot stay without reacting to his behaviour, since he mentioned the 1990 assembly. and that he forgot to mention his fellow president at the time of the reformist forces, the man who led his interests and the party he belonged to. Probably the party that transferred it...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5541	I'm just asking you not to enter the verbal duel. I beg you, as I have asked you, and I ask him not to enter the duel. It wouldn't be fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5542	I think it makes no sense in this way to abuse this pay phone and remember the things that have been, in a way that is extremely incorrect, and Mr Tokić and similar to it, I think we should make an argument, which is why Mr Tuševljak is not a similar candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, I failed to hear it during this long debate. I personally thought I'd be restrained, and from now on I'll be the man who will support this candidacy, for principled reasons. This country has been brought into a very ugly situation, that there is no Council of Ministers, that there is no representative to represent it, and that is likely that Mr Tokić knows that one entity will not co-operate with the Council of Ministers is the issue of competent institutions, which will consider and address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5543	Since this is repeated several times and I am directly listed, Mr. Tokić, your multiethnicity to spit on all three sides is not good for BiH and it is not the future. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5544	Thank you very much, but I'm asking you not to get into this problem, so you can go on the radio and get on TV.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5545	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, should not bring confusion to parliament for us to discuss the BiH presidency's trust here. What led the BiH presidency to define itself as a candidate, the BiH presidency knows, i.e. three members of the BiH presidency. We are here discussing the agenda point, which is defined as a confirmation of the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, on the basis of one, it must be recognised, a lot of the information, i.e. biography, and I think it is fully established what is proposed, in terms of, however, one of the more detailed programmes, i.e. the exposés, which should be submitted here in front of the MPs, on which basis we could even identify ourselves about the candidate who is here among us. If we are discussing any law, we need an appropriate argument, or, in order to accept or reject this law, we need to enter into content, what that law means. We're discussing the content of a decision and we're voting on a decision, we need to know the essence of the decision we need to raise our hand for. If we are discussing a man who should be the most responsible for the BiH executive government tomorrow, we need to know what he, what political concept, what policy he wants to implement as a candidate. Therefore, it is very difficult to identify yourself based on some peripheral arguments, so I say, on the basis of ties and suits, it is important that the programme that the candidate represents, based on which we can say whether he is acceptable or not. This is how we are brought into a very invisible position, that, on the one hand, we are responsible for the overall political situation in the country, which requires us to appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, even if it is in a personal, political sense and not the most optimistic person, the most optimistic solution of one fact, that we have a candidate who has indeed failed to submit the exposés and has brought us into a very invisible position, that as MPs we can really hardly choose what to do when it comes to a candidate who is ahead of us. So maybe it would be logical once again, I join these calls from individual parties, that the candidate, has had enough time since the date of his appointment, a pre-cenitary policy that he will advocate, if he gets the trust, and that we end this discussion and debate, because I think the political attitudes are already established here and there is no need for everyone, in some way, to re-expose their political position. We, for our part, were able to know who would vote before coming to parliament, but, if the candidate has an intention, let him submit to us a specific programme, or goals, at least some of the global goals that he will advocate, if not, for us to move on to a statement, may Bog help us in this business. They're alive.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5546	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, respected appointed by the BiH presidency, Mr. Tuševljak. I have to admit that this is ultimately, this atmosphere in itself, no matter how painful it is, it is, however, saying that it is possible that through dialogue attitudes are a little bit changed, that 20 are thinking differently after discussing this point of the agenda. We have just heard the MPs - the MPs who informed us that before the meetings they thought they would vote in one way, thanks to this discussion they chose to vote differently. It means this whole thing is getting productive. It means that we all have a chance here together to come to a session, to come with one preconception, and when we hear other opinions and opinions, that then, perhaps, to change our minds, that in itself, I think is a quality that we haven't had and comes from a man whose first session is, so that says it in itself enough. I must admit, for me, it has become, in a certain way, almost touching how it has begun to defend a mandate that has not yet been heard. I have to, in a certain way, say, not going back to any past, including yesterday, and trying to develop our joint action in that direction. Today, it is normal that under the agenda point, as defined or defined here, however you will, that the man who is proposed for the mandate in accordance with what the BiH Constitutional Court has told us that the function of the man appointed by the BiH Presidency is to tell us first what he wants, on what concept he means to build this future work, first to tell us what he wants, so that we can see whether it is the relevant person who has either political or economic or personal credibility, because he says what he wants. On that basis, we expected him to tell us himself how to do it and only for us is the third phase, which are, possibly, people, which personal solutions. It's our point of view to clarify why we're talking like this. It's our view that you can't come up with the right solutions unless you put it like this. Let me say very clearly what I mean by that, Mr. Chairman, distinguished, esteemed colleagues. You see, theoretically, perhaps even practically, it may happen that, for example, most in parliament today support the prime minister, in accordance with the Constitution, the prime minister, after our support, takes office. He assumes the duties of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, according to the constitution. The BiH presidency appoints him, writes Mr Banjac, the Parliamentary Assembly confirms him, thus taking office. Keep that in mind. He's taking over. We have three ministers, who we claim to still function as, to put it this way, either call it whatever you want or the ministers are no longer acting, I apologize for the expression, I didn't mean anything by it. So we have three ministers who function objectively until the election of new ones. We have a prime minister who then enters political debates. What does he really want? How does he plan to get to it, or, eventually, think about going back from people. It's our point of view that it can't work. Also, I am obliged to tell this prime minister, any other prime minister, what we expect, once it is exposed, what it is that this prime minister or any other person wants. Today it is necessary that anyone who wants to lead the BiH Council of Ministers, say he thinks he answers current and several key issues. There is a political consensus in the BiH presidency, in parties that support it, to refer only to issues that were on the agenda in early April at the BiH presidency session. What does it mean that half of BiH's GDP this year has already been designed to be a trade deficit, what does it mean, does it mean anything? What he means by the fact that the month we entered was supposed to be a donor conference and when he thinks he can make it with a team of his people. We expect to be told. If anything, you can see that's what you're thinking. The man who takes the obligation to say that when he comes to parliament, Mr. Tuševljak is a man who was not elected to office yesterday, but, as we heard from 21 media, a long time ago. We also expect to be told what he thinks to be done by the letter that came from the World Bank and the competent international financial institutions that talk about, what reforms must be taken to count on credit arrangements, which are now hitched and which are directly around the neck to an ordinary man, who does not know that it is. We also expect to be told here, no matter who it is, Mr. Tuševljak, Mr. Trnka, that I am not going forward now, anyone, I think, who will be appointed tomorrow as prime minister, what is to be done and what is his vision of what was recently adopted in Brussels, as a declaration, and whether any of it can be done now. Whether he means to put the focus on conceiving BiH institutions or on returning refugees, or perhaps something else. We expect it, we're not looking for exposés. We are looking very clearly and we cannot give support to anyone, not even candidates who, possibly, we consider to be more qualified and that we are not now in the debate on the qualifications of individual candidates, nor do we want to discuss Mr. Tuševljak's qualifications now, which we can discuss when we see whether these things are satisfied. Also, I'd like to say that I am deeply opposed to these attitudes, which are moving the whole story on... here we've heard a lot of things today. I don't want to repeat what's already been said, but here we've heard that the media is guilty, the truth is the printed media, which means that the electronic media can stay in the O.R. so they don't worry. We have heard that the BiH presidency is responsible for this, which I fully agree with, in any case, we have heard that this... testing, too, of the BiH presidency's mandate, is in a certain way. However, we have heard here that the Council of Ministers of BiH should be held for the sake of the Stability Pact and for the sake of the SECI, please. We don't need the Council of Ministers for that, and there's no argument. We need the Council of Ministers to address the questions I just spoke of in a few words. Also, I have to admit that the only thing we've got, let someone correct me if I'm wrong, this is the only paper we've got, past what's in the paper. This paper, the truth, has the other side. On the other side is the biography of Mr. Tuševljak, in which he literally writes Prof. Dr. Spasoje Tuševljak – Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad – Ministry of Economic Integration. I am this new method of concluding and using logic, as a traditional apparatus, to conclude that Mr. Tuševljak is also a candidate for these two ministries. Assuming that's true, I can see here that we've already got a piece of paper revising the existing Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the ministries, because the Ministry of Economic Integration does not exist. True, there is the Ministry of European Integration, there is the Ministry of Economic Relations, and the Ministry of Economic Integration, therefore, we have received paper in which, even procedurally speaking, there is a revision of the law against which the SDP certainly is, but, behold, it has been adopted and we have to act on it. For us, with full respect, it is unacceptable that this is a paper basis for selecting the mandate and that, after our confirmation, I repeat, according to the Constitution, will take office. Also, I want to say to a few colleagues and allow me, Mr. Chairman, to use this as part of the discussion, and it may be treated as a replica, but I have no intention of replicating anything, but I really do believe that everything that has been addressed to SDP representatives, in a certain way, with the characteristic of being used as a demagogue, a pre-election campaign, all 22 that we do is not moral, until we use a very ugly test here, I apologize for repeating it, that we spit on some three sides, which defines what it is, these are really things that we don't need and I want to say that all of our discussion and everything we did today is solely in the function of asking for answers for questions that I really press this country. In the end, here in this biography, it really says that the candidate has doctored with the topic of evaluation of the value of the company in crisis. I have to admit that the title of doctoral thesis may qualify him the most for this job, the title itself, normally. Indeed, this country is obviously an undertaking in a brutal crisis, and its value is incomparably smaller today than it was two years ago and the key problem of this country is that today the company called BiH is costing an uncomparably less on the world market because people are living in this company incomparably poor ways and that is something that we haven't even started to talk about yet. That's why, Mr. Skopljak, Mr. Banjac and Mr. Genjac, the esteemed fellow MPs, Mr. Tuševljak, why we can't stand behind the presidency's candidacy in any way. Indeed, many are right, it is true, this is the relationship of this House to this Presidency. As we vote today... towards this presidency. This presidency should get a grade from this House. Doesn't he get what kind of parliament he thinks he should and?? indeed, when we have already been brought into this situation, we are obliged, not for any other reason, but for the reason of turning to the future to tell any mandater, any man who will be on duty tomorrow, that these questions are to be answered by this Parliament, to tell them to the parliament, to ask for support, opinion or anything else, to go on, not leading us anywhere, esteemed colleagues and dear friends.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5547	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija, I agree that we remain dignified and that, under quotes, we don't spit on anyone, no one at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5548	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be kept at the level of the appropriate parliament and the appropriate moment and, of course, an appropriate candidate proposed by the BiH presidency for the BiH Council of Ministers and therefore I think that the chosen words should be addressed to each other. I agree with Mr Lagumdžija that the elected chairman or confirmed, today – tomorrow, take office. I guess that's what BiH needs. Looks like this is the only country that works well if her vital institutions are paralyzed. We in this way escape from the elections, essentially, show that only paralysis of the institution suits us. Secondly, I want to say that BiH has, unfortunately, experienced various demographic changes, that the city of Sarajevo has, unfortunately, experienced this and I don't think it can be talked about Mr. Tuševljak as an anonymous man, at least not in this town. I have lived in this city for 21 or 25 years and worked at the Institute of Economics and College where he worked and Mr. Tuševljak, through Mr. Tuševljak's office and amphitheater has been through a number of generations, today of congratulatory people, experts in BiH, and also in this town itself. BiH needs economic reforms. Is there a more favourable opportunity, what Mr Lagumdžija said than in this place, that people who are going to push 23 economic reforms in BiH are coming to us? So, a series of reasons that are just running for Mr. Tuševljak to this place. If, I say, the handicap for some Mr. Tuševljak did not participate in what was going on in BiH, then, in many cases, it should be basic that he is running for a new course in BiH. Now I'm gonna say something else. Since it is in preparation for a pre-election campaign, since it should leave the impression that nothing works without radical changes, I agree that this opens up space for political speculation as well. I think it's good that BiH works until the elections, and it works well, and in the elections let the best, those to whom citizens trust. This is where the parliamentary majority will decide, no matter what she does, I must tell you, she doesn't like it. The parliamentary majority at the moment is the SDA, HDZ and the Socialist Party. They hold the key in their hands for Mr. Tuševljak and for the entire Council of Ministers, others can rebel, may not be, etc. Therefore, this is a certain test to the BiH presidency members, whether they honestly suggested what they should do today's Spasoje Tuševljak, in my view, says this should have come out here as a member of the BiH presidency, chairing the presidency to say what BiH sees and that they have found a candidate who will do so with the team in the Council of Ministers. Then these traps wouldn't be, is it an exposé or not an exposé? Of course, people are interested in submitting exposures and how they are heading for the BiH Council of Ministers. I would only ask you not to take this line, to do, I think, that the humiliation of the people who propose is not good for BiH. I think it's about Dr. Professor. They're Spasoje the Tuševljak, they can't speak except with a dose of respect when it comes to the waist. Whether he fits into someone's political views or not, but I think he's a new quality, which is for the first time an extra-party candidate. What we advocate, although parliamentary democracy is not appropriate, is it a guarantee that there will be a change of course, because what the gentlemen say is a continuation of some policy in the '90s. I don't think it's really about an anonymous man in this town, no matter what ten years he's not in this town, we've now met here people we know from college, fellow students, warmly hailed, so that's not what he wants to introduce himself to the public, and I think that by choosing the Council of Ministers, this is how BiH is given a new course. Any cooking and political conflicts are the preparation of the terrain for radical changes if BiH citizens accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5549	Since no one has answered for the debate anymore, I suggest, I really ask you, the discussions are really exhausted, that you don't possibly answer if you don't have anything new to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5550	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I simply needed to go out for this pay phone, to say a few things. To talk about Mr. Spasoje the Tuševljak, it's very difficult for me. I don't know a man, I know as much as I got in my biography, and I met him maybe twice in my life. To talk about the BiH institutions crisis, I think we could do a lot, because what's happening now is the same as one of the crises, it's just a question of how we want to wrap it up and how the 24 parliamentary groups like it. We chose the Council of Ministers a year and a half ago, we chose the co-chairs and those we didn't like, we didn't want to discuss them until they gave us written exposés and those we didn't like, they used so many bile and so many incorrect criticisms and so much, that they went with where they went and the total destruction of the Council of Ministers. I can't ask myself today if we can vote on a man who should be on duty tomorrow without hearing from him for at least ten minutes, his vision and where he thinks and what his goals are and what they should be doing on common bodies, or on the Council of Ministers. Simply, to give such a Bianca mandate, it is unacceptable for me and I think that Mr. candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, must address this home and give at least basic indications. I agree with most colleagues, he can't give the program, the program will be given by the Council of Ministers. We will also discuss this programme, but it is impossible on the basis of how the BiH Presidency is leading and staffing and how it is being agreed, to give the Bianca Trust and to conduct human resources in this way. Therefore, I too insist that Mr. Tuševljak address parliament in at least ten minutes and give basic indications of what this should do and what this vision in all of this has come to BiH and where we have all come to a difficult economic position, to block the work of joint institutions and so much else, not to count. When I read that Central Bank report, we're clear, or much more clearly where this ship is going. Therefore, it is my request and I will remain on that request.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5551	If you had given me one sentence, Mr. Rakić would probably have agreed to my proposal. I'm begging you, we've clearly figured out two attitudes here. One is to make a statement about the confirmation of the appointment, number one, and then about the exposé, and the other is to make a statement under number one about the exposé and then make a statement about the candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5552	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5553	Mr. Rakić, what did you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5554	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5555	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, don't put me in that position. It can't be done like that. Where does it say? Based on which exposé, gentlemen, there must be a program. Tokić, you and your people don't know what you're gonna say if you don't mention HDZ, SDA and SDS, I know you don't know, and what I can do when you don't know, I'd like you to know. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5556	I will repeat again, there are opinions here, first of all, to present exposés, and then to vote on the candidate, i.e. the BiH presidency proposal and secondly the opinion that under number one is to vote for the appointment of the president, that is, the agenda item, and I agree. I must put both opinions to the vote and put it to the vote this time, under number one, to confirm the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and under 2. Mr. Tuševljak's exposés, nikakav of this is a change of agenda. I beg you, here, we have a request here to declare ourselves individually and ask the Secretariat to prepare itself. 1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and then on the exposé, I think I'm clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5557	We really can't. The procedure and appointed candidate, appointed by the BiH presidency, are well known, should be submitted to the exposés. We can't force him, but it's a common practice, that would be desirable, as far as I'm concerned. Without the exposé, I'll vote against the candidates, it's an illustration of what the exposé means. The appointed candidate should, in a general practice scale, and present to submit the exposés. The candidate may or may not have to, but to a large extent, the submission of the exposé will have an impact on the identification of the MPs present here, besides, for these reasons, the exposé is also tolerated. After confirming the appointment, there's no point in putting up with the exposés, what's the point of that? He should have the candidate appointed to declare whether or not he wants to submit the exposures and to join the plea and confirmation. Who needs to consult with himself, consult. I don't need to consult with myself. The College prepared this session in a way that made assumptions that the House of Representatives was being declared. I call on the candidate to declare whether he wants to submit the exposure or not to submit the exposé.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5558	I have to say the replica. I don't know what's wrong with my esteemed fellow Genjac? He arranged the agenda with me and forgot. We've arranged a agenda point called confirmation. Why didn't you ask us to put in an exposé? Let's make a change to the agenda. We can't do that, gentlemen. The point is called confirmation, appointment, and there's no exposé. If you want an exposé, you have a business opportunity, Mr. Tokić. There is a possibility of expanding the agenda during the session and there is no problem. Well, spread it out, please, but don't make it out of what you adopted the idea of why you need it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5559	And so far we've had multiple agenda confirmations of appointments. It's always meant before that and the exposure. That's what I understood this time. Confirmation of appointments, and prior to that, exposés. However, I am asking, therefore, a 26-hour break, please, to be used to clarify the mandater's question in a way that he will submit the exposés. At 3 and 15, we'll get back to work. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5560	We have a quorum, we can continue. We have concluded the debate, according to the general wish, I would say, Mr. Tuševljak will speak to us. I'm asking Mr. Tuševljak to speak to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5561	Dear gentlemen, ladies of honor, honored guests, respected media, I am truly in an unusual situation and very unusual circumstances. Honestly, I haven't noticed that things seem so complicated anywhere, as they seem, here. However, all that is happening, in my personal opinion, should be seen as a reflection of the reality in which we are and should work patiently and persistently to make a number of differences, ambiguities, numerous dilemmas, different political and economic and each other's interests relative to patience and mutual respect, tolerance and understanding. I truly expected that there would be more readiness for us to make a complete package for today's gathering, which means that we should make a proposal for the structure of the BiH Council of Ministers in total, as the law provides, and make the basics of our ideas and thinking about what we need priority to do in the next period of competence and in the context of how the affairs of the Council of Ministers have been defined. Unfortunately, because of the complexity, it seems, the circumstances that are here, we have not reached that degree and this level of consistency, to this level of determination to create such a structure that I cannot talk today about the operating proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because that's what I said at the beginning. Mr. Izetbegović, as president of the most represented party in this home here, failed to find time for these final consultations to pack up the team. Since this situation is what it is, I am truly here, because I am in the place where I am, in one situation where it is probably the best way that you here, based on what you know about me, based on what I said here, based on some of the elements that I'm going to say about the ideas that I have, about the functioning of this organ, decide whether this candidacy and appointment is worth it or not. It's up to you, gentlemen. I, of course, because of the courtesy of respecting everyone here, don't want this opportunity to go beyond the circumstances that imposes and to replicate or to compromise with any or any attitude. I have pointed out the two most important things of my presence throughout this period. The first one is, I'm on the stand and I'm on the stand by the legalists. I think this is a set of serious and responsible people. I don't have to explain what that means. I think my presence here, too, speaks of whether I accept or do not accept the candidacy. As a responsible man, I wouldn't let people like this sit here and say I don't accept candidacy. That so much publicity would start and I'd say I didn't accept the candidacy. I, gentlemen, accept the candidacy. It's up to you to confirm that application or not. The second element of my approach to this situation is next. I'm by vocality, by the opinion of technocrats, and I also don't have to explain what it means. It's clear to all of us here 27 now, but I want to be honest and friendly in the context of the tasks that await us here, the way I see these things and what it means in that context. In this context, gentlemen, it means that we need a little more of our political tensions, and political ideas, old and new, about BiH, to put a little bit of a light idea and route, and to deal with what is priority for this country, gentlemen, that is that what BiH is today we do and implement. Things happen the fastest time they go slowly in BiH. I think it is quite clear to us, who we lived in BiH, and who we lived in Sarajevo. In that context, I think, gentlemen, that through economic reforms, through efforts to turn our people around to discuss their lives more, to take care of their work, their profits, their families, our love, our hobbies, we'll do more to make this tension more political and to start living better and better. I, of course, gentlemen, could say a lot of things and details about the elements of the future program or the ideas that we have in that context. As a serious man, I am aware of everything the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Constitution of BiH, the Council of Ministers Act, gives us as a framework for behaviour. I'm one of six equals in the Council of Ministers. Don't expect me to give the program in a short time. I'm not a magician. Don't expect me to have pretentiousness that doesn't suit one responsible and decent man. So, under the circumstances, I am here, I am now that I have found this serious to make an effort to invest all my energy tomorrow with my future colleagues from the Council of Ministers to make a program that you will re-evaluate here. It's just me asking one other thing, gentlemen. Could we have used these 15-20 days to discuss these things and those people who will be in the Council of Ministers of BiH and to work operationally on the programme? I think we are. And why we didn't use that time, it wasn't up to me. I don't want to blame anyone, and I don't want to be pretentious, so let me tell you, you and I are responsible for that, too. Perhaps it's an intruding of our habits from the previous period, from the various circumstances that have occurred and that have not been favourable to anyone, absolutely to anyone, the result of that condition. But now that we're where we are, I'm where I am. It's yours to decide how you're gonna do it. For me, every choice is good for my family, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5562	Thank you very much. You asked us to declare the proposed candidate individually. I'm asking Branko out. Please declare at the calling that, against, abstention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5563	From the Federation of BiH Branislav Branko – there is no Bičakčić Edhem – for Čaršimamović Tarik – for Rijad Raščić – for Filipović Mediha – there is no Genjac Halid – a abstention of Jahić Adnan – for 28 Abdurahman Rasim – against Neimarli Hilmo Karić for Bogić Nikola – absent Pamuk Bogičević – against Silajdžić Haris – absent Spahić Ibrahim – absent Deretić Zlatko – against MiodragMijačević Ivo – absent Muminagić Suada – absent Divković Rakić – against Vito Smail – against Đedović Ibrahim – there is no Dokić Ana – for Zovko Ljubomir – for Lhotak Desanka – for Skopljak Pero – for Anita Mara – for Banjac Milenko – for Ložić Lozančić Radenka Ivo – against Bašić – against Mirjakić against Mirjakić – no against Mirjak Mirko Mr Mirjanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5564	Gentlemen, the results of the vote. Of the 32 MPs present, the vote was 19. The vote was voted by 8 – 5 MPs were abstentioned. From the Federation of BiH – 11 voted in favour – 4 voted against – 4 were abstentions. From the RS, 8 MPs voted in favour – 4 voted against – he was abstentioned 1. Therefore, the vote has passed, i.e. the proposal has been adopted. 29 Who has an objection to the vote. Let me get the Secretariat to make a correction that you'll be pleased with. We have an explanation to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5565	Total from the Federation of BiH was 11 – against 7 abstentions 1. Republika Srpska – for 8-4 against and 1 abstention. Is that the correct information?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-06-0.u5566	The Federation of BiH voted 11 - 7 voted against - one vote was abstentioned. These are the adjustments that have been made. Therefore, the result is as we have declared. The vote was passed, the candidate passed. So, I congratulate you, Mr. Tuševljak, and this is what we've finished today's session. Tomorrow's session starts at 11:00, 22nd session. The seat's finished at 4:00.
