ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u645	Dear delegates, honored guests, I am opening the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's meeting of the House of Nations, besides the House of Nations delegates, the president and members of the BiH Presidency, representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the legislators who are now proposed and who are on the agenda, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, representatives of the public information funds were invited. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for their response and presence to today's session. At today’s session, 13 delegates of 15 are present. Of which, 3 of the Serb people, 5 of the Bosniak people and 5 of the Croatian people. Which means 13 delegates attend today's session. We have a quorum and today's session can work and decide. Before I move to the agenda and pleading on the agenda for today's session, I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mr Avdo Čampara and his family for the death of his brother, Mr Avdo, in the name of all delegates. Since we have a quorum, as we have observed, we can continue to work today's session. For today's session, the next agenda was proposed, which you received in the call for today's session, as well as the material that was previously delivered for this session. Let me read the agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 19th and 20th sessions of the House of Peoples 2. Proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member, Proposing the BiH Presidency 3. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties in BiH, legislators Mr Nikola Špirić and Mr Ibrahim Đedović 4. Draft law on freedom of information in BiH, legislators Mr. Sejfudin Tokić and Mr. Ivo Lozančić 2 5. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the People's Republic of China on trade and economic co-operation 6. Answers to delegates' questions, delegates' questions and initiatives I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Any suggestions, additions and changes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u647	Dear fellow delegates, distinguished guests, the esteemed Presidency, I would only briefly refer to this agenda, in terms of this 2nd item of the agenda, where the law on filling the seats of members of the BiH presidency is discussed. In fact, I don't see the reason why this whole matter is, first of all, involved in the procedure by a brief procedure. Secondly, I don't think any of us have officially received an act called the announced resignation as a member of the BiH presidency, i.e. the chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Izetbegović. Thirdly, I cannot believe that the BiH Presidency unanimously adopted such a bill which, according to my own assessment, absolutely has no foothold in either the BiH Constitution or the Rules of Procedure, which we adopted, seems to me, at the last session of this House. I think it was an opportunity, right in the adoption of this law, and also a test, to see our willingness to take some of the solutions offered to treat this matter, from us well-known documents called election laws, which were in the procedure of this high home, which were offered by the SDP Club of Members of BiH and Mr. Chairman of this House. I personally saw this as one goal, with an attempt to cement the consolidation of existing political relations at the BiH presidency level by 2002. Normally, assuming the possibility and circumstances of replacing BiH presidency members, as said here, prejudge political positions and eliminate the possible impact of political movements in the period ahead. For this reason, I propose that this item of the agenda is not discussed today, and that it return to the regulatory procedure and that further consultations be carried out in this matter, with respect for what it says in the BiH Constitution and what it says in the Rules of Procedure that we adopted in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u648	I thank Mr. Herceg. Is anyone still answering for a discussion, a debate? Let me just make one little comment, even though I don't want to take on that role, that means I'm giving answers and comments and delegates and suggestions, of course, it's in front of all of us here, so, in a statement, just to point out. As for the work of this home, whether this is a shortened procedure or not, I think that the position on this home is taken, all that goes through the proper procedure before coming to the agenda, on this home, we have, in principle, included all three of those points so far. So, is this now an emergency procedure done by the predsedništvo, the Council of Representatives, the Council of Ministers, etc. about that, but it's that kind of attitude and the principle of working at home. I think it's okay with Mr. Herceg's comment. Secondly, as far as the announced initiative is concerned, or any announcements, whether for the shift or resignation of members of the BiH presidency, the truth, we don't have it, but I personally think now I speak for myself, taught, possibly, certain experiences, or the fact that we have no official or formality, and, therefore, there is a possibility of something happening. In that case, I think that, in practice, this law has its weight and importance, and I think there's a need for this matter and this matter to either define or regulate the law, so that we don't, in case, know what can happen, wander later or find solutions. Anything that can be defined by law or by certain documents, I am, in principle, in favour of being defined and determined. That's my answer, but we're here to make a statement about this proposal. I would also like to point out that at today's session there is a guest, Ambassador Mr. Voltmen, before this session itself, by the OHR, a letter has been sent to us, which the OHR has published in connection with this law that has passed, means, part of the procedure and adoption of the Representative Council. In addition to this proposal, I would suggest, if you allow, so, on Mr Herceg's remarks, because we have small consultations, members of the College, with Mr. Ambassador Voltman, done this yourself here, before the beginning of this session, that we, however, accept this agenda. I suggest that, before we open the debate on this item of the agenda, we give our guest, Mr. Waltman, the Voltmen, means that we also have the OHR's letter and the OHR's statement and their position on this law, and that we go into debate, and eventually the delegates will make a statement about all this. I would ask Mr. Herceg, can he accept this interpretation, or does he want the House to make a statement about his and this proposal, if there are no other suggestions? Yet this proposal. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? I would like to make a statement, please, to make a statement on Mr Herceg's proposal, which suggested that this point be removed from today's meeting of the House of Peoples. Who's in favour of this proposal, Mr. Herceg? Who's against it? I find that, however, this proposal by Mr Herceg has not been accepted. I'd like to make a statement on the proposed agenda. Who's for the proposed agenda, how did I read at first, to make a statement, who's for such a agenda? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find the agenda unanimously adopted, with 13 votes in favour. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. 4 Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes with the 19th and 20th sessions of the House of Peoples that you received with the invitation, a copy of the minutes. I'm having a debate and I'm opening a debate on the first item of the agenda. A copy of the minutes of the 19th and 20th sessions of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering the minutes of the 19th and 20th sessions? If there is no, please, are we going to declare ourselves individually about each other or are we going to make a statement at the same time about one and the other minutes? Who is for the adoption of a copy of the minutes of the 19th and 20th sessions of the House of Peoples? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find, with 13 votes in favour, a unanimous copy of the minutes of the 19th and 20th session of the House of Peoples was adopted. We're moving to agenda two. Ad. 2. The proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency as I just proposed and said so, so I informed the dom today's session is also present, Mr Volkman. We got this letter, I suggest, before we open the debate on this agenda point for Mr. Volkman to address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u649	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the opportunity to express the international community's opinion on this bill. First, I want to say it's very good that the bill finally exists, after five years of signing the Dayton Agreement. However, let me express my concern about the procedure through which this law went through when it was adopted at the House of Representatives, as well as my doubts about the content of this bill. When it comes to the procedure that passed this law, it was adopted last week at a session of the House of Representatives, but as far as I know, it was not discussed on the Constitutional Commission of the House although it is obvious that some very important constitutional issues are being suffocating in this law. Before that, there was no public debate about this law. Speaking to the media and some members of the BiH presidency, I was under the impression that some members of the House of Representatives were not fully aware of the full content and consequences of the draft of this law. It seems to me, too, that some of the provisions of the law are not completely clear. As you obviously intend to adopt him at this session, without proper debate on the Constitutional Commission of this House. My advice would be to deliver the law to the constitutional committees of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly so that it can discuss implications, possible consequences of all the provisions of this law, drafts and to amend the additions of any vague provision. 5 As regards the content of the draft law, the principle which fully supports the international community and which it considers to be fully in line with the Constitution is that the replacement of a member of the BiH presidency, who steps down from office, is executed from the PSBiH House of Representatives. Which means he must be a member of the PSBiH House of Representatives and a member of the same constituent people as a member of the BiH presidency who came down from the post. The principle is clearly in line with the Constitution, because the Constitution of BiH, in Article 5, says BiH presidency members must be elected by indirect vote, and members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are elected by direct vote. It's okay. The bill clearly provides for the way this person will be elected, which is that the Parliamentary Assembly House will choose, nominate the candidate, because the candidate must be confirmed by the relevant members of the BiH House of Peoples. It is also in line with the principles of the Constitution, but in Article 6, paragraph II of the bill, it is said, if the House of Peoples rejects the two nominations, proposed by the House of Representatives, on the basis of this article, then most of the MPs of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, who are from the same constitutive people as nominated. First of all, this is pretty vague, who's nominated and who's going to nominate him. It's not clear, it could be any person from the public. If it will be a person from the House of Representatives, it must be made clear, but the biggest remark on this bill is the following. It gives the House of Peoples the opportunity, unless it agrees and approves of BiH's House of Representatives candidates, to simply reject nominated persons from the House of Representatives twice and then, in accordance with a procedure not specifically indicated here, to choose their own candidate. If this is the intention of this law, to give the House of Peoples a final decision to replace BiH presidency members, then it is not in accordance with the Constitution, which says that members of the BiH Presidency must be elected directly, by direct vote, as you know very well, members of the House of Peoples are elected directly. There are some constitutional obstacles, so to speak, which need to be discussed, so I would recommend that it be done to clarify this provision of the draft law and to discuss this with experts, on the issue of the Constitution that there are many in both Houses of Parliament, that it is in accordance with the Constitution. Other comments are given in a letter sent by OHR and OSCE, which you have in front of you. I don't want to go into the details of these letters, I think what I've said so far is quite enough to present this bill to the constitutional committees of both homes, which would be better than to decide here on possible changes that would be re-delivered to the House of Representatives. Those are my suggestions. I ask you, I warn you only because there is one risk, that any law that is now passed, which could be declared unconstitutional after, which I would not like to see happen, because I have great respect for this home. Thank you very much. If there are any further questions, I'm willing to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u650	I thank Ambassador Volkman, with full respect for his remarks and suggestions. Personally, I think they're well-intentioned and suggestive, meaning recommendations, related to today's debate on this agenda point. 6 I'm opening a debate, please. Mr. Ristan. If one of the delegates is looking, he wants to, so he can look.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u651	I'm looking for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u652	Gentlemen, five minutes' break. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u653	I Malopre asked for a break for one reason because I didn't have enough information on whether the Constitutional Law Commission was sitting at the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. Since Mr. Ambassador has cited these facts here, the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives has been sitting, we have received information, and the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples just took advantage of this break and sat down on this same issue. I'll also use this, and I explained why I asked for a break, but I'm also going to use my pay phone date to give one particular opinion on all of this. It happens again that certain decisions are made really hasty and this time, I have one of my own personal proposals, which is that we are going to meet the OHR and the OSCE a little bit, in such a way as to carry out further consultations. Additional consultations, since everything was really hasty, we got this OHR remark just before the session, so we've been given an important issue just before the agenda point, with such serious remarks, there should be a little more time to discuss it, and so I would agree with Mr. Ambassador, not some way to carry out some further consultations and that, in some subsequent period, this law is being discussed again. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u654	I thank Mr Ristan Ristić, and I would like to ask Mr Vinko Zorić, on behalf of the Commission for constitutional questions of the House of Nations, to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u655	I thank Mr. Chairman. I, as the first vice president, or vice-chair of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, would like to inform this house that a session of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the House of Peoples has now been held, had a quorum. He was not present as chairman, I was changing him and the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly held a session and set out the following opinion. 7-1. The Commission found that the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary Assembly had previously discussed the proposal for a law on filling the seats of the BiH presidency and found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. 2. The Commission considered the proposal for a law on filling the vacant seat of the BiH presidency member and also found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law. 3. Although it is understood that the vacant seat of the BiH presidency is being filled out of the ranks of MPs in the House of Representatives, it is in the Law, the same conclusion of the House of Representatives authorised by the Secretariat to regulate the text legally-technically, it is necessary to specify this. 4. The Commission also discussed the draft law on freedom of information in BiH and the proposal for a law on the financing of political parties and found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u656	I thank Mr. Zorić. I'm opening a further discussion. Is anyone still answering for a discussion on this agenda point?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u657	Ladies and gentlemen, I will look back on this legal solution. It is incomprehensible that Article 8, i.e. in Article 4, and later in these future members, mentions that the fill of the BiH presidency in the first and second rounds if it fails, that the draw is going. The Bureau, and a member of the Bureau, is a responsible function and I don't think that's the way to choose, that this can't be the way to elect and fill in members of the Bureau. The position of the people who have now passed to Parliament is such that we voted mostly for, at least to fill this parliament, the House of Representatives, in the previous elections, was that we voted in favour of party lists. This time we will have open lists, where every candidate of the House of Representatives who enters the House of Representatives will have their own political weight independent of their parties, and that is a very different position that could apply for a future time. I suggest that, like Mr Ristić's proposal, this is to hold a debate today, and that we leave the final statement of this law for the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u658	I thank Mr. Žigić. At today's session, we also have a representative on behalf of the BiH presidency. Is there a need to make an announcement on behalf of the promoter since we had a certain... Mr. Trnka on behalf of the BiH presidency? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u659	Dear Presidency, distinguished delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the BiH Constitution predicts that the Parliamentary Assembly will settle the issue of replacing members of the presidency and that the BiH presidency, as early as December 1998, offered the Parliamentary Assembly one version of the law on replacing members of the presidency. Meanwhile, various activities took place around the electoral law. It was estimated that, in the context of the overall solution to the electoral law, the question should also be answered. The international community has also been involved in resolving this issue with its proposals in the form of the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, which have established certain solutions for replacing the Bureau members. In this case, the Bureau withdrew the original text of the law, because it had completely different solutions and essentially adapted to the solutions contained in the Rules and Regulations of the Interim Election Commission. The difference in the original text was only in terms of those 120 days before the election. In the Rules of the Interim Election Commission, it was foreseen that the BiH Parliament could join the replacement of members of the BiH presidency, but not after 120 days of the elections, which means that this Parliamentary Assembly, since the 120-day deadline has already come, could not have been replaced by members of the presidency. Therefore, the Bureau decided to set this deadline for 30 days. This means that this BiH Parliamentary Assembly could execute, and it does not have to, depending on its decision, replace members of the presidency. On the other hand, at the very meeting of the BiH Presidency, President Jelavić gave an amendment to the Bill's proposal and suggested that, in the event that a candidate from the House of Representatives was not confirmed on two occasions, the decision-making word was then given by a national delegation from the House of Nations, but it was understood from the beginning that it was a member from the House of Representatives, since he was directly elected and thus confirmed his legitimacy. The question here is that Parliament has not received an official act on the resignation of members of the BiH presidency, so I would also like to say it. As you know, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and members of the BiH Presidency are also elected in the direct elections. Therefore, their legitimacy is equal and President Izetbegović, by speaking to the public, has actually made known to his electoral body, which is an act of unilateral declaration of will. At the last session of the BiH presidency, President Izetbegović also informed the Bureau that he had announced to the electoral body, and I think that during today or tomorrow you will receive the act of President Izetbegović, which confirms that he has already resigned from the electoral body and will leave office when his office as chairman of the BiH presidency expires, which means 12 October this year. Therefore, I would like to stress that the BiH Presidency's intention was to take those solutions contained in the Rules and Regulations, to avoid this fact that this parliament cannot choose, and ultimately to install this element, that the national component prevails at the end of the line, making sure that only the BiH Presidency is an expression of national equality. As is known, three members of the BiH presidency, Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, so the national component 9 was also decisive in the membership of members of the presidency and therefore in the third round of elections the national component was given over. So, if it can be talked about the unconstitutional nature of this proposal, then it can certainly be talked about also the unconstitutional nature of the proposal by the Interim Election Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u660	I thank Mr Trnki, who, on behalf of the BiH presidency, gave us an additional explanation concerning this law. Mr. Avdo.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u661	You know, every lawyer and all the people who deal with legislative activity will always start by not looking at any party interest or any personal solution when it comes to legislation, because when it's passed, it's worth it until another law is passed that would replace it. That means it could be a year and two and ten and fifteen. Therefore, the law when passed should be passed so that it has a long-term solution that is in the interest of all BiH citizens. That's what you should be doing this time. Especially me, and I'm asking that question to the high representative, surprised by a provision in the rules that he was talking about, which Mr. Trnka was now talking about for 120 days. This means that there is no trust in this parliament. I, as a delegate to the House of Peoples, always supported the international community and I think it worked in the interests of BiH citizens and that it supported the citizens of BiH and I have always supported the international community's views and I think they have contributed to the stability of BiH in many ways, although I once disagreed with some decisions. However, if someone now says they have no confidence, he did not say it directly, but that only after 120 days, it is a clear message, that there is no trust in the current parliament, but that it is the future parliament. In the previous elections, voters opted for members of the BiH presidency. In the previous elections, voters also opted for the BiH House of Representatives, and I also think so, and I understood this bill, that the fullness of members of the Presidency, regardless of what people, would be from the ranks of members of the BiH House of Representatives. This can also be done on the basis of the conclusions, as Mr Zorić read, as the House of Representatives concluded, it can also be a legal-technical repair, to be done and to say, in Article 6, paragraph 2, that the completion will be exclusively from the order of members of the BiH House of Representatives, regardless of who it is, and from that constituent people from which a member of the Bureau is being changed, and I think that we should support it and do so in the future. I have to be honest. The constitutional basis, it is quite clear that it exists, because the Constitution said that the full membership of the BiH presidency is being passed by law by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and as we pass the law, it is a matter of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, not of anyone else. Therefore, whether it is 30 days or 120 days or 15 days or is a day, it is a matter of the congregation’s determination. For me, it would be normal for a member of the Bureau to be elected to replace a member of the Bureau on the same day that a member of the Bureau resigns and does not have a vacuum for one day. That 10 would be normal for me. And I can tell you, given the elections, if a member of the BiH presidency resigns at a time when the mandate of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, elected at the same time by the same voters as that elected member of the BiH presidency, would be normal to give confidence to this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to elect that member of the BiH presidency. However, the dispute over this is now Article 6, paragraph 2. You see, I have to be honest and say one thing. If that were unconstitutional, then it's an unconstitutional OSCE rule. There is, not only a theoretical, but also a practical possibility, and I don't know how long, but it will always be in the new assembly, and also in this assembly, that in the Federation of BiH House of Representatives, given the population, most MPs will be members of the Bosniak people. And in that case, I must be honest, it was a perfectly normal amendment to the BiH presidency, which was adopted unanimously by members of the BiH Presidency, that in this case, the House of Peoples delegates from the same constituent people should elect a member of the BiH presidency from the House of Representatives. Not out of the order of the citizens of the public, which was spoken of by the representative, but in the order of the MPs of the House of Representatives, who were elected in the elections, on the same day as the elected member of the Presidency, and we must respect this reality, because we respect the consistency of all three peoples and whether it is either not one nation or another majority or in the majority or in the minority, well, in the end, we have to be honest and there is a House of Peoples, that we would not vote, because if it is voted in the House of Representatives, then, if it is thought that the interests of a people are violated in the House of Nations, then it can stop and cannot pass. With this in mind, I think this issue has long been discussed and put on the agenda, and I personally see no reason why we will encounter something that is unnatural and I think it is quite natural for a BiH presidency member to replace a BiH Parliamentary House MP who was elected in the same elections when that member of the presidency was elected, of course, since members of the BiH presidency were elected for four years, and MPs for two years may also be elected by MPs who are elected after the next elections. I do not want to comment on the letter I have now read, of course that the High Representative is the Chief Interpreter of the Constitution, he has the right and I will always, as an MP, or delegate in this House, respect the decisions of the High Representative that he makes, and what decisions the High Representative will make, it is on him and not on us here in the House of Nations to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u662	I thank Mr. Čampara. Is anyone still answering for the discussion? If not, gentlemen, allow only a few findings, if no one is answering for the discussion, before the very statement. I would, however, like to conclude, with respect to the remarks made by Ambassador, Mr Volkman, that means the views that we could read in the OHR letter, I would, however, like to conclude that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, one and the other council, have met and that we have a positive position regarding this law, we have been informed later by the expert service, related to the meeting of the Constitutional Affairs Commission of the Council, and, behold, today directly at the session you have had the opportunity to hear from Mr Zorić the Commission's position on constitutional issues of the Council of Nations. 11 As far as the public debate concerning the objection and regarding this law was concerned, it is likely that it was necessary, so I do not dispute this remark. I just want to find out here that this isn't the only law that probably hasn't had a public debate, and it's been adopted on either council. Therefore, if we're going to go for every law, I have nothing against public debate. The question and times and deadlines for the adoption of these laws and our obligations are being raised, regarding the mass of laws still pending order, therefore, the procedure is clear to us. As for the views and opinions of the BiH Presidency, which have been subsequently, I would not comment, in the end, on the basis of Mr Trnka's opinion, on behalf of the BiH presidency, as the legislator of this law, on the reasons for the adoption and reasoning of the text and the proposed law that we are talking about. We could see today and through this debate that we have several different opinions from the delegates themselves, so I can say a few suggestions when it comes to this law. I'll make my personal point. I'm going to join one proposal and think, so, respecting these remarks, and perhaps the reasons why some of this law and text should be complemented and agreed afterwards. I will join the proposal to extend today's statement on this law and try to bring the text of this law into line with part of the remarks we have observed here today that they are realistic and justified. We have the final discussion of Mr. Čampara, at least as far as this article is concerned, that there is a need for this member to be completed, so there may be a need for some more of these members, related to their final alignment. Therefore, I will join the proposal that only a statement on this law is made for one of the next sessions and that it tries to coordinate and agree, respecting certain objections, which we have had to hear today by delegates, through discussion and discussion, and we have had the opportunity to hear part of the OHR’s remarks and the OHR’s and ambassadors’ views, Mr Volkman. Since we don't have any more registered debaters, and we have a few suggestions, do we need to take another little break, try to get along in the context of clubs, in order to maybe come up with one or two proposals regarding this law? I suggest a five-minute break, but really five minutes, to try to get to one or two proposals on this bill, so I'd like to ask the club presidents to meet, however, and to... Let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] After this break, consultations with the club presidents, since, let's remind ourselves, the debate on this law has been concluded, it is agreed that we are only going with one proposal, which is a statement on the proposed law. Here is an intervention by Mr. Žigić, please accept that, with respect for the rights of the delegates, means their proposal. One of the proposals is that 12 statements on this law should be postponed for one of the next sessions. Mr. Žigić and Mr. Herceg's intervention. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's against it? Abstained. I'm guessing the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. We're going back to this proposal. Please state the proposed law, and I would like to point out that it was adopted in the same text at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Who's up for a bill like this? - Ten against? - 2 abstentions – 1 I konstatuj that with 10 votes for – 2 against and one abstention, the Law adopted in the same text was adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. The proposal for a law on the financing of political parties in BiH – legislators, MPs, Mr Nikola Špirić and Mr Ibrahim Đedović The predlagač, one and the other, are here. I thank the promoters for finding it appropriate, and have taken the time to attend today's session, so that, in addition to our findings, which we have previously said about the legislators of many laws, which, at least so far, have not attended these sessions. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Mr. Nikola Špirić, one of the promoters.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u663	Gentlemen of the chairmanship, the esteemed delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the esteemed guests, I only wish, at a small start, to remind you that there has been a bill on the financing of political parties in BiH. I suppose you too know that, on 18 May 2000, we are representatives of all political parties, underlining, all the political parties that participate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, namely the House of Peoples, in the Office of the High Representative, we have decided that it would be good to come to a legal project that would define the financing of political parties at the level of BiH, for the reason that BiH, as a state, is in such a situation that crime, corruption, even the political body of BiH, has been slightly affected and that it should simply be legally defined. We agreed then that the work material, which OHR experts made up, Mr. Đedović, an MP, and I personally embody the draft law on the financing of political parties, which we have done. In that sense, I would like to express my public gratitude to Ambassador Hofman and the Legal Department of OHR, Mr Sead Traljić, 13 who did not save time in contact with Mr Đedović and myself, and in this sense we have come to the Bill Draft, where a parliamentary debate was held within the Parliamentary Council of BiH and I am aware that you have also led such a debate within the PSBiH House. I must say that the debate that has been conducted has been carefully analysed, we, together with the OHR Legal Department, have discussed all the objections and MPs and delegates and now I want to make it clear to you what these are, I would say an amendment or an objection, embedded in the bill. I am pleased to inform you that there have been no additional amendments to the proposal for this law at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In fact, MPs wanted some amendments to be installed, but on our request, it would be good to go with this legal project, so if walking shows which mistake is better to fix the legal solution than to let this matter be legally unedited. In that sense, I would like to introduce you to the fact that we are in Article 3.1, attitude 4, where the Budget of BiH says that, according to the Constitution, BiH's state budget, the word "Budget BiH" stands only, the text remains the same. Then, a member of 4.3 has been deleted who says "the work that a member of the political party performs in the party is basically unpaid work", we do not think that we should define it by legal project, that it is a matter for each party to define how financially it will reward its officials or officials in the party. Then, Article 8. The amendment of Article 8 refers only to this where it states that the state, entity and cantonal authorities, the authorities of municipal, local communities, public institutions, public enterprises, humanitarian organisations, which, by their very activities, are exclusively non-profit, religious communities, as well as business associations in which public capital is invested, is the least, the change here was, in the draft of the law 50%, we propose that it be 25%, cannot finance political parties, meaning, a key change, instead of 50% to make it 25%. Then, in Article 15, we suggested that a change be made from the draft to the proposal. If the political party has received funds in excess of the maximum annual income determined in Article 3.4 or exceeds the maximum amount of the contributions provided for in Article 5 or in a manner prohibited by Article 8, the Election Commission shall impose a fine to the political party, the amount of which shall not exceed the amount of the sum obtained in an unlawful manner. This article allows for, utters, even if the total amount of fines exceeds 10,000 KM. What is a newspaper is a member of the 21st law, it is a new member who reads, “Until a permanent electoral commission is established, according to Article 5, Annex 3 of the General Framework Agreement for Peace, the Interim Election Commission can take over all or only part of the competence of the affairs assigned to this law to the Election Commission of BiH. Appeals on decisions of the Interim Election Commission may be submitted to the Election Subcommittee for Appeals, on the basis of Article 16 of this Act and the Rules on the work of the Election Subcommittee for Appeals. The jurisdiction given in this position to the Electoral Subcommittee will remain until the relevant BiH institutions assume that responsibility." So, this is a new member and, of course, on a proposal from the MPs of the Council of Representatives, another member is added who says this law comes into force after eight days of adoption in the House of Peoples. It will be published in the BiH Official Messenger and Entity Officials. I would also like to inform you that the Council of Ministers of BiH held a debate on the draft of this law, supported the draft of this law, with a small 14 suggestion. The BiH Council of Ministers was interested in whether there would be budgetary burdens under this law for this year. I would like to inform you that there will be no additional budget costs for this year related to the Law on the financing of political parties in BiH. But what you seem to me, or in my sense, is more interesting is, why haven't the amendments that were the subject of the debate on the Representative's Council, as well as here at the House of Peoples been installed? I just want to say about the amendments that are MPs of the Council of Representatives, about the very concept and definition of political parties, we thought that this definition was most appropriate, because the definition proposed by Mrs Muminagić would slightly distort the image of the political party, would enter into the possibility of a different definition of association, which was not planned by this law, and it was much closer to the definition of the political party from the past system and in BiH and the former Yugoslav system. Rasim Kadić had an objection, related to the sentence, that these funds, which are being refunded, would go back to political parties, so the political parties will not be fully punished, but we could not find a more appropriate solution, and we think this is the best solution, because the amount of funds, based on the fine, which can once again reach a political party or its representative is so negligible that it cannot derogate more significantly, in a financial sense, the sources of the party. Then, it seems to me that Mrs Herceg and Živković and the NHI have asked that the parties can deal not only with, that they can deal with all economic activities, so to cover the budget of the parties, we are for the division, divide still fierce, divide into power and opposition, to enter into one area of discrimination, which is not a good definition in this way, so it remains in this non-profit sector. Then, donations from abroad. We did not prohibit them by this legal solution, because we think it is a matter for Parliament to bring them, whether they will limit them or even throw them out of the legal project. Whether to limit the membership of the political party, there were issues. We think membership should be limited, that it is the internal matter of every political party or political organisation. Then, there were objections to Article 10. There were also objections to defining the inherited assets of the former Communist Party, but we think that this should be regulated by a special legislative project so that this law would not be burdened by these solutions and, of course, there were still a number of proposals and, I would say, suggestions. We don't think this is an ideal legal solution, but the way we want to regulate this matter is good, and, please, at the House of Representatives to accept this legislative project and I think this very procedure and method done by OHR, the Office of the High Representative, and Ambassador Hofman, could be the right way for both other projects and the Representative Council and the House of People, and we think this is a very important legal project. It would be good if a permanent electoral law had been passed, and I would like to say that this could be a good way for others, more complex legal projects, to be introduced into the most normal, I would say, parliamentary debate and that as soon as possible, in the interest of BiH, we come to legal solutions. I've had so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u664	I thank Mr Špirić, for his additional explanation, on behalf of the promoter, and for his well-intentioned suggestions. I'm opening a discussion about this law. Is anyone answering for a discussion, a debate? 15
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u665	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I was in the last session of the House of Peoples, when we held a debate on the draft of this law, made my own observations on the draft, and therefore, since I remain in the same remarks and as far as the bill is concerned, I just want to explain that I am not going to vote for this law, and here's why. I said then that we need the law, and we really need the Law on the financing of political parties, that this matter is regulated, but in this law, from Article 2 to 11 and to the end, the powers of the Election Commission of BiH are constantly mentioned, and we know that the electoral law, the permanent electoral law, has not been passed. Therefore, these provisions, which give great authority to the electoral commission, which it does not, are in this last member, are regulated there somewhere in Article 21, until an election commission is established, that the powers on the matter will be taken over by the Interim Election Commission. And finally, I'm going to say something, and that's the Interim Election Commission, and then I said that, here and now I repeat it, that we need a permanent electoral law and that all these transitions of solutions are not good. I would vote for this law, and I will vote for this law when the permanent election law is passed, and until then, this solution with the election commission of BiH, which does not exist, I think is wrong. I want to say that the Interim Election Commission, I have last time at the House of Peoples session proposed a resolution on the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms in the area of electoral rights. Unfortunately, this house, or group of delegates, did not put the motion for a resolution on the agenda. I was going to say then, but I didn't have a chance, because that resolution didn't even come to the agenda, but I want to say now, and I say that the Interim Election Commission is violating the fundamental human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. The interim electoral commission, gentlemen, did not endorse two political parties in RS to apply for elections, with about 160,000 people from one people in RS eliminated from the election process. They're not allowed to go to the election and vote. Therefore, I remain in this claim to respect Annex 3 of the Dayton Peace Agreement, to pass a permanent electoral law, and to regulate everything, the whole matter of choice and everything else, by a permanent electoral law, and to go to elections according to the permanent electoral law, and not by the rules and regulations that change every day from year to year, from election to day. So I went out to say that I would have my own opinion, that is, that is, I will not be able to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u666	I thank Mr. Pajić. Here you go. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Please, let us be clear about the proposed law. Who is for the adoption of the draft law on the financing of political parties? Please make it clear, who is for the adoption of the law, I will repeat, the Bill on the Financing of Political Parties in BiH, the Proponents, MPs Mr Nikola Špirić and Mr Ibrahim Đedović in the same text as was adopted on the Representative Council, with respect to this additional explanation that we have heard from the Proposer Mr Špirić? 16 Who for a bill like this, with Avda's voice, he said – 12 for. Oppose — 1. uzdržati – no. I find that with 12 votes in favour and one vote against the adopted Law on the financing of political parties. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 4. Draft law on freedom of information in BiH I would like to ask Mr. Jadranka, we have already conducted consultations and I have information that...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u667	The BiH Constitution, Article 4.3d, says "delegates and members will make the most of their efforts to include at least one third of the votes of delegates or members of the territory of each entity". Since one-third of RS, therefore, has passed the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u668	I thank Mr. Jadranko. We're moving on with our work. It's a draft law on freedom of information in BiH. Ad. 4. Draft law on freedom of information in BiH, promoters, MPs Mr. Sejfudin Tokić and Mr. Ivo Lozančić I see Sejfudin Tokić here on behalf of the promoter. I also thank his presence, so on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u669	President-in-Office, respected delegates, I thank you for the invitation and the opportunity to present on behalf of the promoter, Mr Ivo Lozančić and myself some basic motives, goals and reasons for the adoption of this law. I think that in our parliamentary life, in the overall political life of BiH, we have achieved one consensus, which is the insistence that elected representatives in the structures of government, at all levels, respond and have responsibility to citizens, according to those in whose name they are in public bodies, i.e. state or public enterprises. In this context, this law primarily aims to bring all information related to the activity of the national authorities to citizens, and immediately at the outset I would like to clarify that this law does not intend to regulate the media area, but rather to establish the relationship of responsibility between the public and the citizens. 17 In order to warn some possible suggestions and remarks, I, on behalf of the promoter, would also point out that there were a whole series of suggestions, proposals relating to amending the law, so as not to come into colluding from the aspect of constitutional competences of the regulation of the media that primarily refer to entities, i.e. cantons and that this law goes in the direction of its title, which would speak more of the right to access information of taxpayers, i.e. citizens. We base our constitutional basis for law on Article 3. A constitution that speaks of the fundamental human rights of every citizen, that has access to information, and this law is based on the experiences of many countries in the world that have adopted or have the process of adopting freedom of information laws. I will only list some countries, such as Greece, the United States, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands, or Sweden, which for over 20 years has one such law. The law was developed in the framework of an expert group that included representatives of all three Bosnian Herzegovina nations, media representatives, legal experts and included one debate that was opened before this discussion today in the House of Peoples. This debate on the draft of this law implies the openness of this proposal to all useful suggestions, in order, therefore, to achieve the strategic objective of this law, which is to ensure access to information and to the public of BiH, i.e. what its government is doing and how public funds are being spent. The Madrid Declaration, since 16 December 1998, clearly defined the obligation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to pass one such law, and given the debate that the representatives of the political parties had already had at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I would not take up time with an additional argument, but I would draw your attention that there is a kind of political consensus on this, as well as the openness of us as the promoters, that the remarks already made in the House of Representatives, and they concern clearly defined the roles of the Ombudsman for information and a series of other remarks, we will certainly take into account the final proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u670	I thank Mr. Tokić for this explanation. I'm opening a further discussion. Is anyone answering for a debate on the draft of this law? I can see there isn't. Let me suggest the next conclusion we'll come to. A draft law on freedom of information in BiH is being adopted. The draft law may serve as the basis for the draft law, under the obligation of the proposing to take into account the observations and suggestions given in the debate when drawing up the bill. We, in the context of the debate today, see, we haven't had any debates, nor have we had any specific objections. I would only like, in addition to this proposal, to add, if one of the delegates really wants to intervene within the framework of the amendment, it means that in time he intervenes in written form towards the promoter, and we have heard from the promoter, Mr Tokić, that there is a mood, by the promoter, to consider these proposals so that this law is as good as possible, better quality, means that he will accept it, as promoters. Now, please, let us be clear, who's in favour of this conclusion? I find, with 13 votes to, to be adopted, this conclusion on the draft of this law. 18 We move to the next point. Ad. 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between BiH and the People's Republic of China on Trade and Economic Co-operation You received the Agreement in material. I'm opening a discussion on this agreement. Is anyone picking up? Niko. Please make it clear, who's in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? I find, again unanimously, with 13 votes for, therefore, the House of Peoples has pleaded for this agreement. Ad.6. We have received part of the answer to the delegates' questions from these previous sessions for this session. I would like first of all to ask the delegates who have asked the delegate questions to make a personal statement about the answers, whether they are satisfied or not with the answers they have received. I would like to point out that they later received, I think you were served, gentlemen of the delegates, and the answer to Mr. Žigić's question. I would ask the delegates first to come forward with these answers, whether they are satisfied or not, so we can move on to delegate issues and initiatives. Mr. Žigić, Mr. Vlado, and do we have more, Mr. Zorić? That's what we got the answers, and for the rest of us, we'll see. Here you go, Mr. Vinko.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u671	I'd like to ask you a question right now. I see an ashtray here. The record we adopted at the 19th session, and we adopted it today, shows that I had three requests and one question. We got, I don't know if all the MPs got the letter that Mr. Tomac sent Professor Dr. Branko Dokić, president of the BiH Assembly's Foreign Affairs Commission. That's a two-faced question. First of all, there are a lot of mistakes, and I'm sorry that first whoever received that letter, and that's Prof. Dr. Branko Dokić, has not responded or met the chairman of both homes. In this letter, Mr Tomac writes to Dokić, in connection, it is odd because he is a bad copy, with the establishment of parliamentary co-operation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's one reason to react, because I don't know what the Republic of BiH says here, I don't know what it is. So, right now, I warn all three, i.e. the chairman and two co-chairs, to respond to this letter, to get to know our neighbouring Republic of Croatia, at least its representatives, as we are in the country of parliament. Also, in the following letter, in paragraph 2, as I was given, the second segment suggests that the visit should be organised on the principle of reciprocity, i.e. that the Croatian side should bear costs, etc., for five to six members of the BiH Parliament's delegation. This applies not only to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, but to the BiH Assembly's parliamentary delegation, so 19 literally writes here, and everyone has received this letter. The time and the whole visiting program would have agreed on a diplomatic path. Furthermore, it says here, which confirms what I was talking about last time, I am convinced that the establishment of the cooperation of the foreign political committees of our two parliamentarians, i.e. the visit of the Bosnian Herzegovic colleagues to Croatia and the improvement of the overall relations between our countries, which is quite good, but last time we realized here that none of the co-chairs of this house and the chairman were familiar with this letter, and here it does not explicitly say that this is an delegation, in fact, it does not say at all that it is the delegation of the House of Representatives and I do not know how the law, here, in this case Prof. Dr. Branko Dokić, or anyone in the House of Representatives, will perform and determine 5 to 6 members of the BiH Parliament's delegation. Of course I'm interested now, because that was one of the demands, which our co-chairmen, in that sense, have taken. I am not satisfied with the answer to the question, because I have asked the question: Who are the members and what is the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? We got it in the report. I've got one answer that's been subdued by one mistake, but here in the letter of Prof. Dr. A Zdravko to Tomac writes that a parliamentary delegation has just been asked to come. Parliamentaryly, in my opinion, it means representatives of both homes. Also, I think it would be good to warn, at least from this home, Branka Dokić said that in the future, when he is, and it seems, they have this practice, colleagues from the House of Representatives communicate with other countries, that they say that our country, our state, is called Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it has two entities. This is where Professor Dr. To the Zdravko of Tomac was stolen by one big mistake, wrote the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it should be said that, I don't even know what to call the union of the RS and the Federation of BiH, in fact, I don't know what the union of the Republic and the Federation would be.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u672	I thank Mr Zorić, I think that today's intervention by Mr Zorić deserves a response from the members of the College, meaning, from previous sessions, to previous objections, I just want to inform the House, and the reactions in this part that were present, that two colleges have met and that I have some agreements and conclusions, and I ask the professional service to deliver in writing the delegates of the conclusions from this joint meeting, because at both level and the other college is just being discussed part of this issue, and the reactions and reactions that were present, by you here, means, and we have made an effort to respect your reactions and we consider our commitment, in part, we have done so. As things continue to happen, it remains with us, and I once again only ask the gentlemen of the professional service to deliver the conclusions of the College in writing, however, in this section. So, thank you, we only have one intervention before Vlado...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u673	A state consisting of the Republic and the Federation. [[You don't hear enough from the place.]] That's what I thought. I didn't mean the Union. How would Mr. Tomac react if we had sent him a letter of the Kingdom of Croatia... 20
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u674	I thank you for this other one.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u675	Dear colleagues, I have received an answer that is deliberately incomplete, here says you cannot give a list of citizens who have received BiH citizenship. If there are people, if someone named a man, he has a name and a last name. If someone gave citizenship to someone, he's a name and a last name. If those names line up, you get a list. So it's really irresponsible and unserious to make a deal like this. If there's a reason, say we can't or won't give, I accept that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u676	I thank Mr. Šoljić, Mr. Pajić, and I apologize to Mr. Pajić. Mr. Žigić, we have received an answer and to the question of Mr. Žigić's delegate, I would ask him to plead. Satisfied. Vlado, we find he's not satisfied with the answer, so he's looking for an additional answer, more complete.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u677	So before I ask a question, one remark, perhaps future representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH could stay until the end of this session, because sometimes we may have questions to them personally, to which they may be able to respond at the moment, so I think it would be a good idea to suggest that at least from each ministry one be at the end of the session of the House of Peoples. I am sorry, here, now the representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives of the international community and the OHR have gone, and, well, I would have one question for them too, and I will ask it like this. I'm going back to that one-people discrimination thing. Last time I proposed that resolution, I said, in that resolution, that the Interim Election Commission withdraws the announced ban on political parties and parties to the elections, because it was only an announcement at the time. But what they announced and happened. According to political parties in RS, the Interim Election Commission did not confirm applications, although they were submitted in time. The parties shall be registered with the competent authorities in accordance with the applicable law. One of these parties, which is the Serbian Radical Party, is the parliamentary party in RS and the parliamentary party in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Since '96. The year participated in the elections, for the first time, and since then it has been a permanent parliamentary party in the RS Parliament, and since the previous elections and parliamentary party in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Behind those parties, I have data from the previous elections, about 160,000 voters, therefore, if possible, I would ask those representatives from the international community, the OHR and the Interim Election Commission, which was managed when she banned those two political parties from going to the polls. 21 There is absolutely no explanation. I remind you, once again, the parties are neat, according to the applicable legal regulations registered. They filed reports. All of what the Interim Election Commission has asked for its rules and regulations has been filed, but applications have not been certified and these parties are forbidden to go to elections without any justification. I'd ask them a question, which they managed when they made that decision. If I may, as a representative of a nation, who has been discriminated against, with such a decision to give me an answer for a reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u678	I thank Mr. Pajić. To find out that this is a delegate question for Mr. Pajić and it's addressed to the right address. We are now moving on to delegate issues and initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u679	At the last meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, we formed a group to draft the electoral law. A number of MPs entered the group and three experts were appointed by the BiH Council of Ministers. Since we are now working on the law, and given the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of all three peoples and repealing certain provisions in the entity constitutions, it would be necessary to suggest from this place that their constitutional committees are working in haste, too, to bring the constitution into line, because it is almost impossible to pass the electoral law of BiH without harmonising the entity's constitution, in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. You know that to enter the Council of Europe is a condition for the adoption of an electoral law. This is more, not as a delegate issue, but as one initiative that should go towards both the BiH Council of Ministers and the constitutional committees of both the Federation of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly and the RS Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u680	I thank Mr. Čampara. Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u681	This first thing I'm going to say is, it's not a question, it's one thinking, and besides, I have two initiatives. At the 19th session, I asked a question, a request to the BiH Council of Ministers, in order to turn the Council of Ministers towards including and solving the problem of Bocinje, and I am pleased with what was done as a recapitulation of the views of the stenograms I have looked at. But I do express regret, here, that today we play deaf phones on the route of the House of Peoples - the Council of Ministers and objectively, there is no one to tell what a man should say. Namely, I had the opportunity to hear an interview through the television of Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the BiH Council of Ministers Spasoje Tuševljak, who first thought about where Bočinja is, whether the Bočinja of which is Maglaj or Maglaj near Bocinje and then was surprised by the question. The second question was in the sense that the state did not have 22 powers to deal with it. Well, nobody called behind this pay phone force, but called on people of good faith to work in accordance with the Constitution and the law on this project, because it is quite evident that this phenomenon slowed down the realization of the Anexa 7 project. The Dayton Peace Agreement, the implementation of property laws, is then directly related to human rights. In addition, freedom of movement, the safety of life there, etc. has been questioned to some extent. In the end, Abu Hamza made it very clear the other night at the OBN about the intentions of the part of people who are not primarily citizens of BiH, but are citizens of BiH of permanent origin, that they do not intend to leave it, etc. Therefore, I cannot really accept here, as a man, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Resort Ministry, headed by Mr Raguž, has not found it appropriate to include and support the resolution of this issue, as the government of Ze-Do Canton or all relevant international institutions has recently done. I think it is high time that people who act on certain functions on this project must recognise their obligations and engage in resolving such issues, as does Bočinja, as is the case in Republika Srpska Janja, etc. The next thing I want to run as an initiative came from the last days of frequent communication with citizens, our Bosnian-Herzegovina citizens scattered around the world, so a significant number of people living in Sweden turned to me, as an MP, with some data. It is the people who are ruling this problem, asking that I, behind this pay phone, remind that from once on, so before the war, ex Yugoslavia had concluded a bilateral agreement on the recognition of BiH citizens' internships in Sweden and vice versa, between Sweden and Yugoslavia. Citizens of today's Yugoslavia, or Serbia-Montenegro, are using the rights laid down in the bilateral agreement, and that right to the citizens of the former Yugoslavia, so BiH citizens are being denied. I would like to point out that, according to the data I have, about 60,000 BiH citizens in Sweden, it is somewhere around 10,000 BiH citizens who are receiving a bonus that they have spent ten years there, or that they will spend ten years, and that there is also another bonus, that they will receive at the age of 65. I think it would be good to refer one initiative, not only to the Ministry and the Government of Sweden, where there was such a bilateral agreement, to regulate this issue, because we would have the position of our citizens of BiH, who are 65 years old, who have completed 10 years of life in Sweden, i.e. working in Sweden, etc., to exercise the right to retire from the foundation of the entire internship. What that would mean for our people, what that would mean for discharging our funds, etc., should not be explained. I, Vinko, brought this program, just so I don't forget to say, just to look at it, because this program, which says what they're going to do by the end of the year, and as things stand, it's quite certain that we're going to do September, October, and maybe once again in November, because on the old principle of the defined commission of this home, this new Rules of Procedure is very specific, in this section 3 of this section, Article 23 said that it is three commissions, I suggest, indeed, that the College try to define the structure and composition of committees in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, and that at the next session we believe that we can work on the issues that are in charge of these committees. That's it, thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u682	I thank Mr. Herceg. We have here, as far as I can tell, about Mr. Herceg's discussion, an initiative that only repeats itself. So, he reiterated, concerning the previous initiative, seeking answers from the Council of Ministers of BiH, the intervention again, and another initiative, which should also go towards the BiH Council of Ministers and through the Council of Ministers, related to this problem, means, according to the relevant states, that is, in this case, only Mr Herceg pointed out. I would like to point out, concerning the reactions, when it comes to members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Mr Kurtović apologized and justified his absence that he had to leave this session, and on behalf of him, I want to inform the House, so we have that reaction again, because of already created obligations, related to the presence of the World Bank representatives and agreed meetings and talks, he justified his abandonment of today's session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u683	My question will be brief. Has the BiH Council of Ministers met and has the resolution ministries been involved in solving the current issue of the Janja event? According to the recognition of the RS refugee and displaced minister, Mr Dragičević, it was an organised attack on returnees. This is a violation of fundamental human rights, a violation of the various resolutions that the country has adopted and I think the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the resolution ministry, should have been involved in all this. I form the issue by saying whether and how the Council of Ministers of BiH has embarked on resolving this problem, since this problem has been dealt with by the High Representative and the heads of the OSCE Mission and the IPTF and all other international organisations represented in BiH, and the Council of Ministers does not appear to be. That's why I'm referring to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u684	I thank Mr. Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u685	The house was initiated to use the time rationally until the end of the term of office, to maintain a joint college with both the other home and the BiH Council of Ministers. It didn't happen, not our fault, I think this home should say it clearly. We have clearly agreed at the College that we will not allow any material to wait in our home and we will stick to it. I wouldn't want to share anything, if it's unwarranted on the side of these two other participants of an unsuspecting meeting. I believe that our college is open to such a meeting and that we organize ourselves by the end of the term of office to do the maximum, to make the most of the laws that these two previously mentioned delivery entities will honor. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u686	I thank Mr. Šoljić. Regarding this information, the finding, I only want here to be informed in writing and the Office of OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u687	Well, I'll get involved briefly, although I was away about 15 minutes ago, just to say something about what Mr. Žigić said earlier. Right, what's going on in Janja is for every conviction. People should be allowed back to their own, those who want to. You should normally work on it, since it's a very difficult process, to see that some assets are exchanged and sold in some future period. There are a large number of devastated housing units in both the Federation of BiH and RS, so that if people wait for their return, they can spend years and years. Some have budgets, here is the budget of the international community to be in the RS for about 30 years, in the Federation of BiH for 20 years, and specifically, to make it very difficult for Srbin to return to Tuzla and Tuzla Canton themselves, where Mr Žigić is carrying out his obligation. There are several cases, which I already own, that people can't get to their own housing unit, which, in fact, was assigned to them, and they just need to be emptied. It should, therefore, work on it, not only in RS, but also in the Federation of BiH. So far, there has been one practice that everything that's been going on negatively about coming back, it's been climbing the RS. However, here I have a 100% return to the Bosniak part of the population in Šehovici. 100% return, but I wouldn't say that in all the municipalities of the Federation of BiH, someone was just talking about this case about mujahedin, etc. Okay, come on, these little places and villages are very hard to achieve, but I would ask at least in these urban areas, such as Tuzla and Sarajevo, for people to meet and get to their rights as quickly as possible, at least as far as this Serbian part is concerned. All right, in Banja Luka, it's completely coming back, that's clear. It is a bit likable, but it is evident, unlike many other cities in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u688	Since the area I come from is mentioned in a negative context, it is negative, just as it is said. Official data from international organisations say it is one of the most open areas in BiH and that the largest number of returns is happening there right now. In all municipalities, daily programs were built in all cities, people's exits, the return of apartments to pre-war residents is a process that is unconstitutional and we all support it. In this regard, all returnees, who return or return to their homes, have full support. And it's an unfathomable process that's going on. Unfortunately, when we talk about coming back, we can now elaborate numbers and official and unofficial data all the time, each of us will present their own data that he owns or wants to possess. The fact is that the return runs in the Zvornik area, but in the towns of RS very little... and the right of people to return to their homes is also to exchange and sell, but it is their right only when they return and when they are allowed to enter the property, however, this is very difficult and it is a problem to return, which we can conduct discussions of long-term and long-term and all sorts of others. I think the problem is going back, it can't be said for one area whether it's coming back or not, 25 we need to say how many people have returned to the cities, and not devastated and destroyed villages, it's not a return measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u689	I thank Mr. Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u690	I will repeat here a question that I have asked several times at the Federation of BiH level, I have never received an answer. Why don't we get a final list, a national structure from '91. And from '99, so that we don't deceive ourselves, that we don't laugh here when anyone makes a claim, that the international organisations that have that list come out with him here before us. To be clear, the community of this and that, the structure of that and that, the present and that, so let's see where the situation is best or worst. I think that's the same question that would require an answer. That answer exists, and why it's hiding, I really don't know the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-31-0.u691	I thank Mr. Šoljić. Further, delegate issues, initiatives, as far as I can see, no more delegate questions. Let me conclude the 21st session with this. I would like to thank you for your presence and participation in the work, and I would like to ask the professional service that these delegation issues and initiatives be delivered in time to the competent. The seat's finished at 2.50.
