ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u692	At a meeting of the House of Peoples, besides delegates, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the bill, representatives of OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phare project, representatives of public information funds were invited. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for the response and presence of today's meeting of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. Allow me, too, to realize that today's session is attended by 15 delegates, meaning, in full session, so that we have a quorum for today's session and we can work and decide fully. Let me suggest the agenda for today's session. For today's session you are calling on the proposed agenda, and the materials within the proposed agenda we received earlier. In the meantime, since we are required, i.e. the practice is to follow the meeting of the Representative's Council and we have followed this session, i.e., the continuation of the session of the Representative's Council, I will propose and amend the agenda, so allow me to suggest that, in relation to the proposed agenda, which you received in the invitation, I propose an amendment to the agenda. I suggest the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 21st session of the House of Peoples 2. Draft law on archive construction and BiH Archive 3. Proposal for a Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions 4. Information on the laws adopted by the High Representative on a provisional basis and 5. Answers to the delegates' questions, delegates' questions and initiatives also, I want to inform the delegates, and I think you all have before you, before the start of the meeting of the House, the delegate, Mr Đoko Pajić, in writing provided us with the resolution on the protection of basic human rights and the freedom of the citizens of BiH in the field of election rights again. 2 I propose that there be any further amendments, additions and proposals to this agenda, and I will later ask Mr Pajić, if necessary, as part of the final statement on the agenda, if he wishes to take his word. Are there any other changes or additions to the agenda? For recording, I think there's a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u694	Mr. Chairman, in the working part of the proposed agenda, under item 6, the list of conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe is discussed. She's in the material, she seems to be delivered to me, so let's just see what the status of this agenda is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u695	In relation to these reactions, or Mr Malić's proposal, in preparation for this session, in consultation with the Home Secretary, I mentioned at the beginning, meaning, regarding the proposed agenda that you received in the consultation, and we are familiar with the practice that, in a large part of the agenda, our session defines what passes on the Representative's Council. We've been tracking it, I'm going to do it again, the Council of Representatives meeting. Right after the meeting of the Representative Council, in consultation with the secretary, who held consultations with the other members of the College, we agreed to go with this current agenda proposal, that is, to go with these changes. Now, I'd like to ask, if there is any need, for the secretary, Mr. Jadranka to give an additional explanation. This item was also proposed for a session of the Representative Council. The Council of Representatives did not discuss this point, that was why I also suggested amendments to the agenda. I thank Mr. Malić. Is anyone still coming up for an update and a change of agenda? Is there any need for Mr. Đoko to take part, so, with this change, I don't know if I should call now an addition to the agenda, compared to this proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u696	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman has informed you that I am, using the right of Article 114. The Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, for today's agenda, also proposed a resolution on the protection of basic human rights and the freedom of citizens of BiH in the area of election rights. Given that Article 114. The Rules of Procedure regulate that every delegate in the House of Nations has the right to propose a resolution and to automatically put such a proposal on the agenda, that it be held at the end of the session, that is, at the end of the debate, according to the item on the agenda of the vote on the proposed resolution, so I remain in my view that this resolution is going to be like, is now going to be the sixth item of the agenda of today's meeting of the People's Parliament Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u697	3 Is anyone still coming forward, related to changes and additions to the agenda? Let me, if you don't, I'd just like to make a little comment. We had a similar situation, related to Mr. Pajić's proposal. I think that at one point we came a little bit in the position to comment on the way and vote on Mr. Pajić's proposal. I would suggest, however, five minutes of consultation, let's see, however, before coming to the plea, I have a need to consult with the professional service in order to further propose a continuation of this session, so I suggest just five minutes of rest, for my personal consultation with the gentlemen of the professional service. Gentlemen, let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] After these consultations, I suggest the following. That we first declare on the proposed agenda, which is agreed on at the level of the Secretariat and the College, the right of the delegates are to propose amendments and amendments, so we are still working on the basis of the Interim Rules of Procedure, although we have adopted the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, I would just like to remind myself that when the adoption and the position and conclusion were that the Rules of Procedure could not be published in the Official Messenger, while we see whether there would be serious proposals, comments, amendments, etc., or until there was an agreement, a lecture, because there were objections to that text that we adopted and that it would be previously signed by the College, meaning, of all three members of the College and afterwards to go to the publication in the Official Messenger, and on that basis, it could practically be in office. Which means that we are still working on the basis of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please, since we're done, I hope, the debate on the proposed agenda, as I said, which has been agreed, I ask you first to make clear on this proposed agenda, I repeat, which is in line with the Sekretarijat and at the level of the College. Who's up for such a proposed agenda? Do you mind? Abstained? I find, with 14 votes in favour and one abstention, the proposed agenda has been adopted. I now propose the addition of the agenda proposed by Mr. Đoko Pajić. I ask you to make a statement on the completion of the agenda, that a resolution on the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms of the citizens of BiH, in the area of electoral rights, is being included for today's session in the agenda. Proposal proposed by delegate Đoko Pajić. Who's to put this resolution into the agenda of today's session? Against? Abstained? I find that the proposal was voted in 3 – against 5 – abstentions 6. I konstatuj that this proposal, or 7 abstentions, is not included in today's session of the House of Peoples. 4 Is there a need to re-enact the proposed agenda? There's no need. We're moving on, so we're moving on with the Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 21st session of the House of Peoples I am opening a debate on this item of the agenda. You got a copy of the record in the material. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a debate on the record from the 21st session of the House of Peoples? No objections and no suggestions. Please let us make a statement on this item of the agenda. Who's for adoption of the 21st session? Against? No abstentions. I find that with 15 votes, the minutes of the 21st session of the House of Peoples have been adopted. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The draft law on archive construction and the BiH Archives, the BiH Presidency's proposal on behalf of the BiH presidency, we have a rapporteur today, so I would like to ask Mr Matko Kovačević to take his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u698	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am Matko Kovačević, director of the BiH Archives. I am asked by the BiH Presidency, by the legislators of this law to be of service to you and to give the opening remarks and thank again to the BiH Presidency and the House for putting the bill on the agenda, which was lastly, from the 18th session, removed from the agenda on Mr Ristić's proposal and we delivered our opinion, our reasons why, in our opinion, should not have been removed from the agenda, because they are already in place. We provided the House with a request to place it at the next session, later we further installed, i.e., detailedly worked out all the remarks we received and in which the working group from the RS participated, i.e., the working group appointed by the Government, representatives of the Ministry of Science, Culture and the Slovenian Archives, so we almost fully respected the remarks, and we provided it to the professional service of the House of Nations. If you have received our request, our suggestions and remarks, then there is no need to speak more and wider about the bill, or draft law. Yeah, they all got it. Then I wouldn't be talking about it, because I think it's usually too much to talk about this home about the importance of the archives and the importance of the matter this law treats. I am at your disposal, if there are any questions to explain, and to include any other concrete proposals in the bill. In the end, I would just like to say two more findings, that the normal functioning of the BiH Archives is the absolute interest of entities, of all citizens and peoples of our country and beyond, because the structure kept by the BiH Archives, common good, public good, not only of our country, but of good and of the world's cultural heritage, because of its value. That's why it's an interest to rule it out legally and to keep it under regulations. I can also tell you that the archival structure, i.e., of the BiH Archives, is the absolute interest of all peoples and citizens of the whole country, because it is well known that there are facts in this building that are the most valuable evidence for the achievement of constitutional and other legal rights, especially now at the time of denationalisation, privatisation and the exercise of property and other rights of all citizens. I also want to point out, in the end, that the BiH Archives, apart from the law established jurisdiction over the structure it has been guarding, which has been collected here for centuries and is there, and is indivisible, therefore, it is available to all and it is common good for all citizens and peoples of this country and beyond. Finally, I would like to say that it is also obvious here, I repeat, it is obvious that there is no speech in this law nor the BiH Archives, except for these powers to guard and monitor and worry about the work of joint institutions, such as you and the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. Other than that, the Archives has no ingenuity, no administrative authority, not only over entity archives, but also over cantonal, county and other archives that guard the building. So, outside of that legal authority, he has no other powers but one narrow professional co-operation, especially professional collaboration with the development of the profession and the development of human education, and at this point it is particularly important that we have projects designed and accepted by the international community, which weigh several hundred thousand marks and are deployed, by common agreement, at the level of both entities and the whole of BiH and in order to enter the procedure for the next year for these funds, we need to have legal regulation of representatives of this service, which is a member of the archive association of the World... Well, that's it, I'm at your disposal, I'd be glad if there's anything I need to...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u699	I thank Mr. Matko Kovačević, who gave us an additional explanation on behalf of the promoter. I'm opening a further debate on the draft of this law. Mr. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u700	Madam Chairman, on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, I would like to inform the House that the Commission has discussed this item of the agenda and has assessed that there is a constitutional basis, as set out in Article 3(5). The BiH Constitution, which discusses additional competencies in BiH's joint institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u701	I thank the President of the Commission, Mr Malić. If not, I would like to conclude the debate and ask that we enter into a plea on the draft law on archive construction and the BiH Archives – Proposer, BiH Presidency. Who's for the draft of this law? Against? Abstained? I find, with 14 votes in favour and one abstention, a bill was passed. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 6 Ad.3. The draft law on the BiH institutions discussed the bill's House of Representatives and adopted the proposed text, with one amendment. Do we have anyone here on behalf of the promoter? I'd like to ask whoever's on behalf of the promoter to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u702	Dear MPs, chairman, guests, you today, at this point in the agenda, have a Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. This bill, in the Draft, you adopted the beginning of this year. The House of Representatives, at its last session, adopted this proposal and forwarded this home for further adoption. I can inform you, since you have adopted this document, this law has already been adopted as a draft, that some changes have come from law to proposal. We've made an improvement in two parts. The first refers to the deadline, because the deadline adopted in the Draft has already been exceeded at the moment, and we have established the BiH Institution's Treasury, with this proposal, as it was adopted at the House of Representatives, set 31.12 this year, which means we have one period of four months to carry out all necessary actions to make financial flows through BiH institutions functional as provided for by this law. The second improvement is about the bill. The adopted draft envisioned the budget of the BiH institution opening account with commercial banks. However, given the situation in the BiH banking system, which has not yet been consolidated and which does not yet offer as much security as needed for the one state budget, we have opted to put in place the possibility and opening of an account at the Central Bank of BiH. These thoughts at the Treasury Ministry, both ministers and both deputies went in that direction, and then we consulted with international financial institutions, which in a certain way direct budgets and financial flows in a particular country, including with us, we received agreement. So the text was improved in that part. Everything else is, in fact, what you've already adopted as a draft. Since by adopting the Draft, you have shown a high degree of responsibility and seriousness that financial flows in this country are finally functioning as appropriate to one country, I hope that today your discussion and your behaviour will go in that direction and I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u703	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mrs Fatima. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u704	Also, again on behalf of the Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, given the fact that from draft to proposal there have been certain changes which were also referred to by the Ministerial Council. On the Commission, we have also reconsidered this and assessed that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is still indisputable and in the proposal. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u705	I thank Mr. Malić again, President of the Commission. Please, is anyone still answering for a debate about this law, the draft of this law? If not, I would like to conclude the debate and suggest that we make a statement on the draft, I apologize, the proposal, as adopted on the Representative Council in the same text. Would you like to make a statement about the bill? Against? I find, with 14 votes to one loud against, a bill was passed. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. Information on the laws passed by the High Representative on a provisional basis I would ask the Secretary of the dom, Mr. Jadranka to give...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u706	I would just like to say a few notes to you, which is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat made this information based on the conclusion of the House of Representatives and at the end of 1999. In this information, five laws were passed by a high representative. Of these five laws, only the debate at the House of Peoples was conducted on one law and on the Law on the National Anthem of BiH. It wasn't even voted on that law at the House of Peoples at all, but only the debate was conducted. The conditions for voting have not been met. All the other laws, to put it that way, conditionally speaking, are stuck at the House of Representatives. There were all the laws and alignments of the College members and the re-election of the House, however, they did not pass. The home of the people would eventually put into debate the Law on the National Anthem when conditions were met.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u707	I thank the secretary. Does anyone want to report for a discussion under this information that Mr Jadranko has briefly explained to us, and based on our previous conclusions from our previous meetings?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u708	Mr. President, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would only briefly, without any analytical entry into what is written about this information, indeed try to appeal to the delegates of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to our College, that these five laws adopted on a provisional basis by Mr. Vestendorp, and which really represent and mark the state, prices to the state in terms of the country in terms of the traits, we have the strength in these three months to make assumptions that these laws are again found in one and another House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. First of all, it's stuck in House 8 when it comes to the State Anthem Act. We've been listening to that anthem for 14 months. I don't know if anyone else is clear anymore. She plays here and at this home and whenever it comes to some events of importance for the state. I insist that the State Anthem Act be held in session, because it's stuck here, and from colleges to create, one and the other college, the environment for these laws to be back on the agenda, to try to do something about the mandate we've had here for over two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u709	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Herceg. Is anyone still answering this information? If not, I think, because it's information, we can only find out that in part we only respected one of our conclusions that we have that information at our session. Let me also say in person, that I support what Mr Herceg commented on and I think that such efforts should be done. I don't think there's any need to comment on anything in particular, as Mr Herceg didn't comment much, but he pointed out briefly, simply our mission, I would call it a commitment, when it comes to these laws declared by the High Representative. If no one comes forward for the debate further, we only take this to the knowledge and realize that we are familiar with this information, and the College, normally, about this discussion and Mr Herceg, I think there will be time and opportunity for this discussion and this initiative and Mr Herceg's proposal to consider and try to reactivate it with another kolegij and, as a College, we support it. The conclusion that the College supports this and that we will also address the College of Representatives. Thank you. We're thinking about everything else. Ad.5. We do not have any answers to delegates' questions, delegates' questions and initiatives to respond to delegates' questions. All we can do is see if there are any new delegates or initiatives. Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u710	Mr. Chairman, before I ask one question, which will also be a request, I would just like to clarify some things. I have now voted against the Draft Law on Archive and Archive and against the Law on the Treasury Institutions of BiH, although I voted in favour of both the Draft and the Proposal for a Bill on the Treasury of the Institutions of BiH, at one of the previous sessions of this house. But I was now against it, because I am deeply disappointed with the work of this home, because I believe that the most pressing task is to protect the people we represent in this high house and to stand in the protection of the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all BiH citizens. It is truly precedentd that at the threshold of the 21st century, one nation, a third of a nation is denied the right to go to elections and vote freely for their representatives both at entity level and in the joint bodies of BiH. I am neither against the Dayton Peace Agreement nor I am against the BiH institutions, if I were against it, I wouldn't be here. 9 So I also respect the Dayton Peace Agreement and BiH institutions, but I respect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all BiH citizens. Now I would just ask a question, or a request at the same time, Mr. Chairman. Here we are working 20 months without the Rules of Procedure. We adopted the Rules of Procedure two months ago, and I don't know why it hasn't been published so far, here, for 20 months, we've ended our mandate, maybe three more months of work at this house, and that still this Rules of Procedure, which we adopted, has not been published and I ask that by the next session of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations be published in the Official Messenger. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u711	It's just a message to the professional service to finish this job.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u712	So let me tell you, after the session, when the Rules of Procedure was adopted, my colleague and I sat down and did all three versions. 14.08. the Rules of Procedure were sent to all envoys to make their observations, if they have them and to submit observations by 4.09. To this day, however, no single remark has been delivered. After the remarks, the members of the College should sign all three versions and only then go to the publication, and since no remarks have come, you should have left the time period of seven days from the day of receipt.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u713	Which means that it will likely be published soon and will, in practice, be in the application function. Any further questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u714	I have to be gentlemen... but indeed, gentlemen have no patience to welcome the end of this session and the sessions of the House of Peoples, but no matter what they are gone, I will ask again, really, I think this is very irresponsible and irresponsible, I can wait another ten minutes. First of all, I want to ask the BiH Council of Ministers about Mr Fernandez' letter, and about the implementation of the stand by the IMF arrangement. I want to be answered. There's a very precise teaming obligation here. As far as I'm concerned, the first thing is budget rebalancing. It was due July, it's September, the next session will be in a month, it'll be October, what about budget rebalance and what about this issue in which phase are the realisations, I'm looking for a written answer. Secondly, and to answer Mr Šoljić's question, I want to ask the BiH Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Human Rights and Social Policy. Namely, the information we received clearly indicates, on the basis of the information provided by the Exchange Commission, i.e. the examination of the status of citizens 10 naturalised before '92. the year, that was issued or admitted to citizenship by 10,994 foreign nationals. I don't mind. I accept the explanation, at least what's written, I apologize for taking over, in a certain way, I accept that it's not all there is to say who these people are. I believe there are data, that can be said, above all of these 10,994. The federal interior ministry has issued 5.103 citizenship. I ask the answer, how many countries are naturalized Bosanac and Hercegovac? Second, DKP 5.540. I'm asking to be told which states the DKPs were issuing citizenship in. How many citizenships have been issued, and from which country are these people who have been issued citizenship? The next thing I want to ask, i.e. to make a request, is the fact that in the process of appointing the Council of Ministers of BiH, the House of Peoples did not participate. This is not controversial, but the delegates of this house, all of us together, often asking questions to the BiH Council of Ministers and the resolution ministries, and demands and giving initiatives, express dissatisfaction with their relationship with us. I want to be given the exact, precise, name and last name of the people who are called ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH, who are people who are deputies of the BiH Council of Ministers, with short biographical indications. I want to know when I ask someone, who needs to answer me and what his name is and what his brief notes are. And next, I asked four questions to the BiH Council of Ministers on Social Policy and to the problem of the Bosniaks at the 19th session of the People's House. Four questions I never got an answer to today. At the 21st session, I started that question again to answer, at least it's my fundamental right to get an answer for what I'm asking. In the meantime, at session 24, it seems to me, I have it here, I have come to this information prepared on July 27th, Mr. Tokić and Mrs. Perkanović have suggested in the agenda to discuss the problem of Janje and Bočinje, so it is concluded that one quality information is prepared on this issue and that it is very likely to be included in the agenda at one of the next sessions. I want, since I have this working content of the document, which is prepared, probably for that session, where it's talking about quality information, I want to say that there are quality lies and I suggest that those quality untruths are erased from here. First of all, it is not true that the people who came to Bocinj in 1995, i.e. not '96, but '95 came to the devastated houses, because the municipal administration then formed a special commission in the property service, which established the right houses to move into the currently temporarily populated population down there, that is true. Secondly, it is not exclusively about foreign citizens married bošnjakinja. There's a lot of free shooters out there, and let's see who's really in the marriage community with someone and who's a free shooter there. Next, here he speaks for the arrival of a response from the municipalities, where the chief and the administration asked them to have these federal, so, from the Federation of BiH... I want to help not to get into the procedure something that is not true, Mr. Avdo. That's why I say he doesn't come into procedure. I want to comment on why I asked the question, and I didn't get the answer. Therefore, there were no answers to the municipalities, no municipalities, to whom the letter was sent, gave an answer that would affect the dynamics of the implementation of the property law project. 11 Third, I pray, indeed, who is the author of this document? It's not true that the haman could be a dozen Srbin who want to return to the bottle. Believe me, that's not true. I have daily contacts with citizens' associations that are both in Doboj and Tesla, and I'm sorry I didn't bring a list of 90 and a few signatures of people asking to do this, just from the Teslic area and the Doboy border area. So let us not operate on something and create an environment and a situation that is not appropriate to the truth. I'm really asking, I'm sorry, it may not have anything to do with delegate issues and initiatives, but it's a suggestion. Let's not argue with something that's not true, let's check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u715	I thank Mr Mugdin. Here you go. If there are no, so all these reactions and repeated questions, I think the professional service will process them and refer them to the address. There's no problem. Deputy Minister, Mrs Fatima Leho.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u716	Since biographical data are mentioned, I am, I feel, I need to say something. I am Fatima Leho, Deputy Minister of the Treasury of BiH. I'm 70 today and some work day in this office. As for the rebalancing you mentioned and stand by the arrangement, I can inform you of the following. One of the conditions was the Treasury Act. Today we have completed all the legal procedure and the law has been passed. The Ministry is formed. Systematization was adopted and people were given solutions this week. The ministry is located on the street of Danijel Ozma, first and second floor. It was placed at the entrance of the Treasury Ministry of BiH institutions. So, built, solutions divided, laws passed and flows flowed. The budget account of this country can only be signed by three people, chaired by two deputy ministers. It's about the vault where I work. We did it in 70 days and a few days, with your help and help from the Lord of the House of Representatives. The other thing is rebalancing. The budget of the BiH institution is over. He was on the Council of Ministers of BiH, we did not reach a consensus, because it is a restrictive budget, because there is no room for new funding from entity budgets. The entity budgets have brought their rebalancing to parliaments and envisioned only new funds of 10.1 million KM and that is exclusively for the exchange rate, for paying foreign debt to abroad. Given what we have found, we have seen that the country has not been late in carrying out its commitments towards the ino debt, and I hope that this dynamic and this state, with all our joint efforts, will continue until the end of this financial year. However, the problem is the administrative budget. The administrative budget was projected to be 77 million. In these 77 million, 33 million were scheduled to be charged on the basis of administrative fees for issuing various documents to our citizens living abroad and using our DKP services. Indeed, 30 million were achieved last year, so by adopting the budget for this year, they thought the revenue would increase. Given the achievement, in half a year, we saw that only 8 million and 900 were achieved, which means that we had to cut the administrative budget's revenues for this 12 year, and by reducing income, you know that expenditures must be cut immediately. The ministry's proposal was to cut the funds that were provided for salaries at the foreign ministry, and that's the only place we could find space. All other users, starting from the Constitutional Court, parliamentary parliaments, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, etc., all ministries, commissions, means everyone who is in the Budget of the BiH institution, we have not reduced their material costs, we have been able to reduce them compared to the projected one, because the achievement in half a year dictated such behaviour. We found space in the MIP, because significant funds were planned for wages, more than it allowed for last year's performance, in our opinion, in the Treasury and we made a reduction there, so, as much as we've reduced in revenue, we've reduced the rebalance on MIP salaries. That is why we could not reach a consensus at a session of the BiH Council of Ministers. We had a minister who abstained from such rebalancing, under the BiH Council of Ministers Act, the rebalancing was passed on to the BiH presidency. The presidency should now hold a session and refer it to the parliamentary procedure. I hope it's going to be these days and we're having intensive talks with the IMF and they told us that we have to finish it now in September, it was deadline 5. But they see that, however, it ends. The most important thing is that we have made a proposal that is suitable for the Bosnian state and for the Bosnian Herzegovina financial flows, meaning our reality. This bottle and lamb thing, it's not my competence. I'm the Minister, Deputy Minister for Other Areas. I gave the biographical data, I'm from Mostar, if that means anything. We build bridges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-09-08-0.u717	I thank the Deputy Minister, Mrs. Leho, only this way can I ask Mr. Herceg, regarding this answer, in a series of questions that the gentleman has given. Accepts response. We don't have any further, this is what I'm closing the 22nd session with and I'm thanking you.
