ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u488	Gentlemen of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of international organisations, media representatives and all others present, I welcome you. In light of the circumstances, today's session is chaired by me, since Mr. Drago Ljubičić's mother had a heart attack last night, asked me to chair, I would like to see the mother of our chairman heal and continue the work of this session. While I chaired there was no anthem, I don't know at what point it starts, I'll appreciate it, natural thing, I'll continue to work, and when it comes to that moment, let those who handle that technique do their homework. I'm opening the 16th session of the PSBiH House. Today's session features four representatives of the Bosniak people, five representatives of the Croatian people and four representatives of the Serb people. The quorum exists, the session can begin work. For the session, I propose the next agenda, which you have received on the benches, since there have been some small changes, which is that the first item be the verification of the mandate of the newly elected envoy from the Bosniak people. 1. Verification of the mandate of the newly elected envoy from the Bosniak people; 2. Record of the 15th session; 3. Law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Ministrys, Proposer of the College of Both Homes, i.e. three Co-chairs or what is already called the House of the Peoples of BiH; 4. Confirmation of the appointment of the Chief Auditor and the Vice-President; 5. Realisation of the International Fund for Demining and Mine Victims in BiH; 6. It's an emissary question. Are there any proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? If not, who's for this agenda? 2 Against, I see, there is no one, abstention is none, so the agenda is adopted unanimously. Ad. 1. The verification of the mandate is an honor to present to me a new representative, our envoy in the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH, who was recently elected today, Mr Džaferović. It's just for us to address his mandate. We did not have time to meet the Mandate Commission, so we, as a College, decided to verify this House's mandate for Mr Džaferović. He should make a solemn statement. Who's to verify Mr. Džaferović's mandate? Unanimity. Mr. Džaferović, please. I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u490	I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u491	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u492	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u493	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u494	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u495	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u496	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u497	And defend the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u498	And defend the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u499	Thank you. I find that all three clubs are in full composition from now on in the House of the Peoples of BiH. Ad.2. The verification of the minutes of the 15th session of the House of the Peoples of PSBiH You have the minutes before you. Any objections? Whoever's up for the record, raise your hand. Who's against it? The abstention is gone. Thus, the minutes of the 15th session of the BiH House of Peoples are unanimously adopted. Ad.3. Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and BiH Ministries Proposed by the College, i.e. three MPs of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. You've got material. After a long discussion and a lot of problems, the House of Representatives, as you have written before you, adopted the College's proposal, which is essentially a proposal from the BiH Presidency with certain technical improvements and clarifications. I am opening a debate under the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs at the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has discussed the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH ministries and has found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and that there is a legitimate proposal. The Commission considers that the House of Peoples can properly discuss and decide on the text of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u501	Thank you, Mr. Malić. Who's next to report for discussion? Given that I am today an unforeseeable chairman, I would, together with this, ask the representatives – the envoys, to accept my proposal 4 that Mr. Džaferović be automatically a member of the commission, including his predecessor, if the Bosniak side, or the Club has no other proposals. I'm going to give Mr. Džaferović a complete... so we don't waste any time on it right now. Who's in? Unanimously, Mr. Džaferović, you are now truly a full member of the House of Peoples. The same situation with Mr. Zoran Marić regarding membership in the House of the Peoples of Mr. Pere Mađar. Who's in favor, so there's no confusion later? Unanimously, both are now members of the House of Peoples in full capacity. Is there any debate on this point 3? If there isn't, I'd go to the vote. I'd like to invite the Croatian Representatives' Club first to state who's in favour? - Four. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Croatian Representatives' Club, 4 for – 1 abstention, accepts the proposal. The Bosniak MPs' club. You've got a bit of a bad score. Three for it. Who's against it? Who's restrained? So three for one abstention and one against one. The proposal has passed. I'm calling the Serbian Representatives' Club, who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Same result. Or three for one abstention. I find that the Council of Ministers of BiH has accepted the proposal, one of my little technical mistakes, I don't know if it was necessary at all, it is that the amendment existed to be included in this preamble law. Preamble is, in a way, one obligation. So we adopt as in the same text as the House of Representatives Act on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much. We have done a big and important job today, the BiH Council of Ministers will be able to work, as far as we are concerned, now it is up to others to put it in full office. Ad. 4. Confirmation of the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Vice-President The House of Representatives adopted the proposal yesterday at the session, the promoter, at the time of its chairman, was Mr Jelavić. You've received a proposal. The chief auditor's name was Ivan Miletić, and his deputies Samir Mušović and Dragan Kulina. This is how you do it in a package. I'm opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u502	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, honored guests, I again as last time. I respect all three languages and all three letters, but I still have to point out that in this house they should be represented equally and the languages of all three peoples and the letters of both peoples. I also had an objection to the material we're getting last time. We don't, at least we Serbian delegates, as far as I'm concerned, get not everything in Serbian and Cyrillic as it should be. Here's this item of the agenda as well as the next item of the agenda, and I also got the material, and now it's got this mixture of both Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak, but in principle I don't mind giving consent to appoint a general auditor and this next item of the 5th agenda, not to answer again, but for principle reasons I won't be able to vote for the same thing I said last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u503	I fully respect the comment of the gentleman, and now we have the Secretary of the House, that future material is not like this, the first page is in Croatian, the second in Serbian, the Cyrillic, the third one is again in Croatian, the fourth in Bosniak, etc., I think it would be correct, with a little effort we can satisfy here, to say, a significant item for our situation, which is that we get materials in all three languages, which is the obligation, etc. Mr. Tomić, in the future, I hope you'll be the one who's been, I mean, never out of a bad mind, but there's been a failure to correct it and that our home is functioning in full law and quality. Ad.5. Realisation of the International Fund for Demining and Assistance for Mine Victims in BiH Who is for? Who's against it? Detained 1. We adopted a proposal from the auditor and his deputies. By the time I started point 5, you all know what tragedies are related to mined areas around the world, which, unfortunately, last much longer than conflicts, decades and longer. It is our job to stand up to this evil, to support all who fight for the demining and elimination of this one, to say, of the most insidious weapons that function today. Accordingly, I would suggest that we support the efforts of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the foreign ministry, to obtain donations and all other credit funds and everything else to put the problem of demining in BiH in a significant place, so I propose that we support this plan, to accept the implementation of the plan of the International Fund for Demining and Aid for Mine Victims in BiH. I failed to take a closer look at it, I took an oral interest and received the opinion that this plan should be supported. I'm opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, by supporting the activities carried out in BiH in connection with the cleaning of the remains of minefields and explosives in areas affected by the war, almost all of BiH, I would like to propose a proposal adopted at the House of Representatives, which is that we single out the April shower for this fund mentioned here for cleaning and demining in the BiH area.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u505	You heard the suggestion. Is there a discussion? There were some dilemmas at the House of Representatives. In principle, I don't think anyone would mind us making a contribution to this purpose, 6 however, was immediately a dilemma as to whether anyone was entitled in any name, related to his personal position, to each of us's personal views. I wouldn't say anything special, but I think I belong to those who are personally contributing, who's interested in me to document it, and in the last year I did it in that field, I think in accordance with my capabilities, perhaps more than that, I would like to support this proposal, but in principle we don't decide that any of us is doing it who isn't willing to do it. I think if we just let it go, I'll absolutely support that attitude, but I wouldn't be willing to vote on it. It's an appeal and we'll join it. We won't be in anything weaker than the House in front of us. Thank you very much. That we still vote on this plan. Who's in? Against? The abstention doesn't have anyone. We unanimously supported this plan of the International Demining Fund. Ad.6. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u506	Honored President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that the future day before the Federation of BiH Parliament is scheduled for this home so that we will not be on the same day, so I think we should respect that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u507	Thank you, Mr. Marić, I was an advocate to make a calendar, given that we have countless governments, parliaments, ministries, to make one indicative calendar, to go about going from top to bottom, that the Presidency has set its dates, and then the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, however, this proposal has not been accepted so far. Any questions from the MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u508	Dear Chairman Šoljić, distinguished fellow delegates, esteemed guests, as Mr Zorić asked if there would be any questions, I am now in a position to ask one question. It is, in fact, that on January 5th, I submitted one item in terms of a declaration of the constitutionality of the citizens and peoples of BiH, with a request that the College should classify it, from then on to this day, at one of the sessions that are behind us. Since this has not happened, I would really like to be answered why this initiative has not been put on the agenda so far, not prejudicing, normal, outcome and solution in this initiative, or, if it is to be put on the agenda, I would really ask to be told when it will finally be, three months have passed, or, if not, let me explain why this 7 initiatives will not be put on Parliament's agenda. That's the question, so I'd like to ask a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-13-0.u509	Any more questions? Thank you very much. The session is over. The session is over at 4:35.
