ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u385	We are moving to the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're going back to work. For the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose the following 1. Declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency on commitments in BiH's accession to Council of Europe; 2. Decision on granting consent to ratifying the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and relevant environmental problems; 3. Decision on granting consent for ratification of Amendment No 1, concluded between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 4. The transfer of duties to the chairmans of this House; 5. Legislative questions I would like to ask the delegates to declare the above-mentioned agenda, does it have any additions? If not, can we make a statement on the proposed agenda? Who's in? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted the agenda. We're moving to point one. Ad.1. You have received a statement from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency on your commitment to BiH's accession to the membership of the Council of Europe. It is part of activities conducted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Presidency and the entity government, related to BiH's accession to Council of Europe membership and I am opening a debate on this document. If not, are we in favour of accepting the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency on the taking of commitments in BiH's accession to the membership of the Council of Europe? Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously accepted a statement by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency on the commitment of BiH to join the Council of Europe, which empowers the chairman of the House of Peoples to sign this statement. 2. Ad.2. Decision on granting consent to ratifying the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and relevant environmental problems I am opening the debate. Is there any one of the pronouns to say anything about this decision?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u387	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, BiH has, with this charter and acceptance of the treaty, practically become one of the members of the group of states, who have agreed to co-operate, primarily in the field of energy, in the area of environmental protection, as well as in certain investment protection issues, from areas that regulate energy and environmental protection in the area. This is practically one of the multilateral agreements, i.e. contracts, to which BiH, above all, acquires certain rights and also has certain obligations, when it comes to the production, transfer and distribution of energy from all kinds, as well as the acceptance of certain standards related to energy production and environmental protection. This charter, i.e. this contract, also regulates the issue of protection from the domains of energy investments, such as production, transmission distribution and, in a sense, BiH gives benefits and obligations to which the issue is regulated. We joined this charter very quickly, so-called Energy Charter, we have accepted the provisions, and all that we have done during this postwar renewal period has been in spirit and in line with the proposition that this association requires. With the act of ratification, we become a full member of this association and achieve both certain rights and certain benefits. It is particularly interesting for BiH that, by becoming a full member of this association, it can also benefit from certain funds, which are significant, particularly in terms of linking BiH with the EU and developed countries of Europe, including BiH in the network of transmission systems for electricity and gas, as well as the transmission and distribution of other energy sources. In particular, for us, the most important activity that will arise from this charter and BiH's accession, BiH's inclusion in the transmission network is a 400km transmission system for electricity, making BiH an integral part and segment of so-called segment. European ring, i.e. in the future, so-called The Mediterranean ring. This is also important because BiH will, in this way, become a significant segment in the regional association of production, distribution and consumption of all energy. Thirdly, BiH does not need bilateral agreements to regulate its relations in the sphere of energy with individual countries, but to ratify this bilateral agreement. All the provisions set out in this Treaty are becoming, in practice, BiH's bilateral obligations towards each of these countries, or each of these countries towards BiH. Practically speaking, the general provisions for the distribution of electricity and the transfer to BiH are valid for both BiH and any member state, as well as general Uzans and general provisions for the transfer of energy through BiH. By doing so, BiH acquires the same rights and obligations it has, illustrations it does, Germany, which uses for example. The gas pipeline from Russia, which means that all benefits and liabilities become harmonised and have exactly the same treatment. In the area of investment, BiH is becoming interesting with this, given that the routes of transfer of certain energy sources are geographically interesting to be realized through BiH, which will significantly help BiH and what will make this space attractive to the so-called. The power transmission highways, with 3 points of energy production, BiH is receiving significant support in the field of electricity and I therefore propose that both of these documents be accepted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that these contracts be ratified. If you have any further questions, you've had a chance to see this document, which has this basic part of it and the annexes, I'm ready to give you answers, to each individual.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u388	I thank Minister Kurtović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? If not, I am closing the debate and I would like to make it clear about the decision to give consent to the ratification of the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on Energy Efficiency and the relevant environmental problems. Who's in favour of taking this decision? Thank you very much. I agree that we have unanimously adopted the Decision to give consent to the ratification of the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on Energy Efficiency and the relevant environmental problems. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.3. The decision to give consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1., the conclusion between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, please also give us the opening remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u389	Gentlemen of the presidency, it is a contract BiH signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development just over two years ago. In the process of realising this credit arrangement agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and BiH, there have been some changes not in the amount of the total loan but in certain equipment specifications, where the funds will be used. This is fully consistent with the users, i.e. the other entity government, so we should accept this amendment to the Annex contract. Once again, I stress, it is not a change in terms of credit conditions or the amount of debt, but only a change in specification, where these funds will be spent. There has been a change for practical reasons, because certain funds, provided for in the framework of this loan, have already been provided from other sources, so that these funds are rerouted for other purposes, and everything is in spirit with the basic contract, signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u390	I thank Minister Kurtović. I'm opening a debate. Who answers the word. I am closing the debate and I am giving a statement to the Decision to give consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 Agreement concluded between BiH and the European 4 of the Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we have unanimously decided to give consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 Agreement concluded between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.4.The handover of the chairman of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was, in the past period, chaired by me, according to protocol. The next chairman is Mr Drago Ljubičić. I would like to thank all the members of the College who have, indeed, tried to come together to a solution in the work of this house, and this co-operation has been at a high level, as well as you, to the delegates, who have shown my desire to co-operate and to negotiate these eight months of my presidency. I would also like to thank the representatives of the international community, who have expressed interest in the work of this home and in helping to produce a number of documents related to the work of this home. In the end, I would certainly like to thank the representatives of the media who followed the work of this home very correctly and reported to the public what was going on at this home. I wish Mr. Ljubičić successful work and to be more successful than the two of us predecessors, Mr. Šoljić and I, although that is not possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-02-0.u391	Dear gentlemen from the international community, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of information funds, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you in this new role and function. Let me say that at the beginning of the takeover of this function, these remaining eight months, as foreseen, the system of this rotation and my presidency, I say only a few words. I think this is an opportunity for me as a member of the College of this House to thank my colleagues, so far chairman Mr. Šoljić and Mr. Žigić, for one extraordinary and correct co-operation and understanding. This is an opportunity, too, to thank the MPs of this house for their contribution and to give their relationship, so, according to this job that we do and I expect, and I believe that with such work, as far as this home is concerned, we will continue. We know the role, the importance and importance of one and the other at home, therefore, I do not think that we need to talk about it, nor do we need to talk about our task standing before us, and it is still quite large and I hope that in this remaining time of our term of office we will make our contribution and that we will certainly make further efforts within those 5 obligations that are ahead of us to complete them. I thank you all once again for your cooperation and expect this cooperation to continue. Within this 13th session, the 5th item of the agenda is the proposed and adopted point of the Delegate Issues. Well, here, do we have those delegate questions? Here you go. If not, I'm closing the 13th session. Thank you. The seat's finished at 2.50.
