ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u510	Dear guests, I am opening the 17th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's session, in addition to the delegates, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PAR project, representatives of public information funds were invited. All warmly, in the name of the College, I salute. Today's session is attended by 14 delegates, 5 of them from the Serb people, 5 from the Bosniak people and 4 from the Croatian people. Today's session is not attended by Mr. Marić Zoran. I find that for today's session of quorum and session, we can work very hard, that is, to work today. For today's session of the Council of Peoples, it is proposed the next agenda that you have been convened. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 16th session of the House of Peoples; 2. Draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act; 3. Draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act; 4. Giving consent to ratification; (a) Protocol II to the Convention on the Prohibition and Restriction of the Use of certain types of classical weapons which may be considered to have excessive traumatic effects or act without distinction with regard to civilians; (b) Convention of the International Labour Organisation No 105 on the Prohibition of Forced Labour; (c) Framework Convention of the UN on Climate Application; (d) Agreement between BiH and the SR of Germany in the Establishment and Activity of the Institute of Culture; (e) Cooperation Agreement on the Prevention and Combating of Cross-border Crime; (f) Convention on Movement and Arbitration under the KEBS; 2 5. Guidelines of the European Union and the programme of measures and activities to implement reforms in BiH, with the conclusions of the BiH Presidency; 6. Legislative questions. You heard the proposed agenda. I'm opening a discussion on a draft agenda, please. Any suggestions, additions, changes to the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u512	Gentlemen chairman, fellow councilmen, honored guests, here's the third session of the House of Nations in a row, the same thing. I want to warn again whether it's intentional or not, I don't know, but it seems to me, after my two interventions at the last and last session, it seems to me now that this is really intentional, that we Serbian delegates don't get the material in Serbian and in a letter. With that in mind, I suggest you take point 4. Giving consent to ratification, so b) Convention of International Labour Organisation No 105 on the ban of forced labour and under c) UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, I didn't get a set of materials, I don't know, late I arrived, fellows of other delegates from the order of the Serbian people in which they received the letter, but I didn't get complete material in the appropriate letter and language and I suggest that this be removed from the agenda until the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u513	I thank Mr. Pajić. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? If not, please, we have a proposed agenda here and now we have a proposal from Mr. Pajić. Please, first of all, let us be clear about Mr. Pajić's proposal. Is there any need for the Secretariat to give an additional interpretation, Mr. Pajić? The truth is what Mr. Pajić intervened, he did, as far as I remember, intervened on this, although last time we received an interpretation and explanation of the Secretariat and the problems facing the Secretariat in preparing this material, I know and it seems to me that last time we accepted it as an explanation, today Mr. Pajić intervened again on the same issue. I believe and I think we all know that something special has not changed in the Secretariat. Please, in any case, if we don't have any further suggestions, interventions and a proposal from Mr. Pajić, here, I'll give you a statement. Please make it clear, Mr Pajić's proposal is that in the context of point 4, from today's session, because of the remarks Mr Pajić has made, they do not consider these two conventions, that we do not approach ratification and debate on these agreements, that is the International Labour Organisation Convention No 105 on Forced Labour and, if I am well, Pajić, observed the UN Framework Conventions on Climate Change, for the reasons explained by Mr Pajić. Please, who's in favour of this proposal to remove this from today's session? I'm asking you to make a statement. Please, if the professional service has not determined, please repeat the vote for professional service. Who is it for this proposal by Mr. Pajić to remove these two points? Who's against it? Who's restrained? We can see from this that the proposal didn't get the necessary majority. I'm guessing he didn't get the necessary majority. 3 Should we make a statement on the proposed agenda? Who's on the agenda like this?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u514	Given this situation, I propose a 15-minute break and that the materials in the language requested by the gentleman means in Serbian, and that there is a chance, if it takes more time, to study the materials and discuss them in a quality way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u515	Mr. Žigić suggested a 15-minute break, here we give a 15-minute break so the professional service will try to provide material in Serbian. Due to this particular situation, Mr. Pajić's proposal, I will repeat it once more, so his intervention was the last time. I'll repeat, we've got an explanation of the professional service and last time to this intervention for what reason it is. The situation in the professional service has not changed significantly and significantly in the number of workers and those working on the preparation of the material, at least I think, and I accept that fact and that one reality. We have now declared ourselves, and we are in a position to plead for this agenda. Today we also have this specific situation where part of the delegates already has an appointment at 14 o'clock and we can come into a position that we simply don't have a quorum for further work, if we take a break of 15 or 20 minutes, I'm not sure, here, there are gentlemen from the professional service and during this time they can provide this material. Please, here's an explanation. Since this material was obtained only in one language, the professional service was unable to provide it. Therefore, even now, it cannot provide within this time limit, and I respect Mr Pajić's remarks entirely. I would suggest that we continue to work, further declare the proposed agenda, and that this should be reassessed and that, behold, I suggest once again, it really doesn't happen, no matter what language it was about. I suggest that, however, we plead on the proposed agenda, only if you didn't have another intervention. With this explanation, Mr. Žigić withdraws his proposal. I'd like to make a statement on the proposed agenda. Who's on the agenda like this? - 13. Who's against it? – 1 I find that the proposed agenda has been adopted with 13 votes in favour and one vote against. We can keep working. Ad.1. The adoption of the record from the 16th session of the House of Peoples I am opening a discussion on this part of the agenda. Who shows up on the first item of the agenda? If no one's answering, and we can see that they're not here, I'd like to make a statement about the record from the 16th session of the House of Peoples. 4 Who is for the record of the 16th session of the House of Peoples? Against? Abstained? Someone didn't vote or count well. As far as I can tell, we're not against any abstentions. I find that the record of the 16th session of the House of Nations was unanimously adopted. Ad. 2. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act is proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers. Representative of the BiH Council of Ministers, do we have, does he want to get involved in this? Mr Kurtović, representative of the BiH Council of Ministers, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u516	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, two years ago we adopted the Law on Customs Policy of BiH, and at that time we were already aware that we would probably be able to identify all the weaknesses, i.e. try to find more adequate solutions that this area would arrange, according to those wishes we had then, i.e., we did this area and arranged it to be similarly arranged in other countries that surround us, i.e., especially with the countries of the European Union. In that sense, a period of not two years of application of this law makes certain recommendations on how to overcome some of the perceived weaknesses and these weaknesses have been identified in the implementation process itself, both by the entity authorities and by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Hence, the amendments and additions to the BiH Customs Policy Act stemmed from three sources of suggestions. The first was the IMF, which wanted to reduce a certain volume and number of powers and privileges that could be enjoyed, both BiH citizens and BiH institutions. Secondly, a number of suggestions have been given to us by CAFAO, which is a consultant for the establishment of customs authorities in BiH, which reflect changes and additions in similar areas and similar laws of the European Union. The third part of the amendments and additions came from institutions dealing with the application of these laws, i.e. those implementing the Customs Policy Act, either at the level of entities, or at the level of state institutions and bodies. The majority of the amendments and additions to this law are given in terms of explanation and detailed development of certain major segments on the implementation of customs policy. In this regard, we used the experience of some European countries in which such activities were arranged, in particular in the internal and external processing of goods, then clarifying certain terms and certain categories of the legislation. The second part of the scope is the reduction of the benefits provided for by the previous Customs Policy Act, especially in terms of the denial of so-called "Tables". discretionary rights to any authority, including the BiH Council of Ministers, that by its ad-hoc decision it can discharge the payment of customs duties of any individual or of any 5 institutions and this right has been returned to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. its homes. The third part of the comments, i.e. amendments, were purely technical, i.e. some more adequate terms and more appropriate names for some of the actions to be done under the customs procedure. We believe that these changes have improved this law in a quality way, regardless of reducing a certain number of privileges that any institution has, whether individuals. These benefits are reduced to the extent that EU citizens can and enjoy, and in that sense, it is a kind of harmonisation of customs regulations with EU rules. Secondly, the Customs Policy Act has left a wider field of action to improve and develop BiH's economy and has tightened certain measures that could lead to the abuse of this law, i.e. we have prevented one part of the procedures that would prevent certain individuals or certain institutions from having a more favourable treatment than others, thanks to the legal solution. All the institutions of the international community participating and participating in the process of rebuilding and building BiH, in terms of reconstruction and reconstruction, have maintained these previous benefits, which means that this part of the activity, we can say, and the BiH economies, will not be affected by these changes and these changes have not brought any change. Since I am here at the pay phone, I would also refer to the Customs Tariff Act, given that these amendments are very small, they essentially refer to only one amendment in Article 1 where, apart from the customs value of so-called. Alv... introduces an absolute monetary unit, an absolute amount of money as the amount of customs duty, which we didn't have in the current Customs Tariff Act of BiH. This is one of the opportunities that other countries of the West are using, and in this way we are re-adjusting our law with EU legislation. Other changes are more in terms of specific languages and other additions. The first is the Foreign Trade Act of BiH, replaced in the exact name of the Law on Foreign and Trade Policy and the third amendment is... since 1 January 1995, after the Uruguay Round of Talks, the transition to the World Trade Organisation and the call and the name... would be inadequate in this law. So we have one fundamental change and we have two relatively linguistic changes that bring this law closer to the reality that we are in. I can tell you some more details, but it would be too much right now, but if you want, I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u517	I thank Mr. Kurtović. Before opening a further discussion on the draft of the law, I would like to inform the House that it is justified that Mr. Marić is missing, he has just reported himself, he has trouble coming in, the defect is on the car, and, as far as I have information, he will probably join us in the next meeting of the House. I am opening a further discussion of the draft of this law. Here you go. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u518	Madam Chairman, given that my proposal on the correction of the agenda is not respected, I did not vote for the full agenda, so that I would not appear on every agenda. Basically, I have no fundamental remarks on the agenda, but because of this situation that we've come to because... I'm going to be abstaining on all the other points of the agenda for just principled reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u519	Is anyone else picking up? If not, I suggest we make it clear that the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act can serve as the basis for the draft legislation and I propose this conclusion to the statement. Who's to this conclusion? Who's against it? Abstained? I find this conclusion adopted with 13 votes for and 1 abstention. Ad. 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act The proposal was given by Mr Kurtović, I am opening a discussion on the 3rd item of the agenda. Here you go. Is anyone picking up? If not, allow me to suggest a conclusion on this agenda point as well. That the draft law amending and supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act can serve as the basis for the draft law. Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I also find that this conclusion was adopted with 13 votes and one vote against. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad. 4. Giving consent to ratification of these agreements and conventions Is there a need to read them again? You got it in the agenda. I'm opening a debate on all these conventions and these agreements. 7 Is anyone answering for a discussion? Proposal, opinion, no. I, here, have a proposal, suggest that we make a statement in the package on these conventions. Any other suggestions? If not, please, who is to ratify all these listed conventions and agreements that are proposed in the agenda? Do you mind? Substantiated — 1.. I konstatuj that the House has declared itself in a package for the listed conventions and agreements proposed on the agenda with 13 votes for and 1 abstention. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. Guidelines for the European Union and the programme of measures and activities to implement reforms in BiH, with the conclusions of the BiH presidency, I am opening a discussion on this agenda point. Here you go. Is anyone picking up on this part of the agenda? These guidelines were, I want to inform, I think they're famous, they were also on the Representative Council, so the Representative Council took its stand according to these guidelines. Is anyone picking up?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u520	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I only appear for one single reason that I want you to, in relation to the debate on these guidelines, learn that this is one of the most important documents that BiH has to adopt, that is, to implement the measures in these guidelines in order to make two significant progress by the end of the year. The first is to hold a donor conference for BiH, because as you know, the World Bank and the international donor community will also provide BiH with the next donor cycle, but provided that BiH has more serious access to the implementation of the reform processes. Others, by which the name of this document is partly called, are guidelines that when we meet the conditions to start talking to the EU and other European associations about the Stabilisation and Accession Treaty. So this is our last chance to adopt the measures we have here in the Draft by the end of the year, and when we adopt them, then we can only be a serious partner for talks with the EU and with the international donor community. I went out to ask you, too, that all of us at our level, in accordance with the jobs we do, do everything possible to ensure that these measures written here are adopted, because I'm afraid that BiH no longer has that credibility, or the reason that the international community gives it a once-a-half. So, most seriously, we have to take these measures. They are in the interest of not only one people, they are in the interest of all the peoples of BiH and they are, in fact, some way out of the economic crisis. I am therefore asking you to start implementing these measures most seriously and urgently. Thank you very much. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-04-27-0.u521	I thank Mr Kurtović for this additional explanation, so these guidelines, and I think that, and I believe that, we are all aware of our obligations within this very process and project, I think that also the MPs-delegates in the BiH Parliament and representatives in other BiH institutions, and also at the entity level, will take this seriously and that we will all make the necessary efforts to meet, in any case, these conditions. Is anyone still answering for this discussion? If not, I suggest the next conclusion. The home of the people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly supports EU guidelines that BiH should take to implement measures and activities to implement reforms in BiH. The people's home will bring their program and monitor its realization every two months. Please, let us be clear about this conclusion. Who would suggest a conclusion like this? Do you mind? Abstained — 1. I find that this point was adopted with 13 votes and one vote abstention. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.6. Any questions from the delegates? Answers to delegate questions, too, we don't. If not, I'm finishing today's session. I thank you for your presence and for your participation. I'm finishing the 17th session. The seat is closed at 13.55 p.m.
