ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u392	I'm opening the 14th session of the House of Peoples. Let me first determine the presence of today's session. Today's session is attended by 13 delegates, 4 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 5 from the Serb people, so a total of 13. For today's session of the House of Peoples, you've been given the agenda, with one count only. In the meantime, we have a need to propose an amendment, that is, to supplement the agenda. It is that at today's meeting of the House of Nations we have another delegate from the Croatian people, Mr. Marić Zoran, and I propose to supplement only the agenda, the verification of the delegation's mandate – Mr. Marić and the laying of a solemn statement, so that would be the first point of the agenda. The second item of the agenda would be the one you got in the call for today's session. 2. Consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH ministries, MP Vita Rakić's proposal. Is there any other proposal to supplement the agenda? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u393	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, the distinguished guests, my proposal is, respecting the procedure and practice that has been done so far in these more than a year and a half, about the way we have decided, meaning, given that we have always made our decision on the basis of previously held discussions and established positions in the Parliamentary House of Ministers of BiH, that the proposed item now in this new draft agenda, which is under regular number 2, i.e., the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, should be removed from the agenda for reasons of respecting the established procedure and on the other hand of security, in a certain way, equal access to treatment and other proposed laws relating to the BiH Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers. We must bear in mind that these are laws sent by Mr Genjac, by Mrs Ana Havel, from the SDP and the BiH presidency. It is very interesting that the bill that came from the BiH Presidency, which was sent by emergency procedure on 9 February, has not been in the procedure until 21 March, although, as I recall, it has also received very flattering commendation from the High Representative, i.e. the OHR and the OSCE. 2 On the other hand, it is a retroactive application of the position and decision of the High Representative, in the sense of interpreting the position of those who have been abstained from the plea and for these reasons should provide either the same principle in relation to some previously built views on this document or apply this from the moment of notification, or acceptance in this high house. In that sense, I suggest that this be postponed because tomorrow is a session of the House of Representatives, and then, if necessary, both colleges with representatives of political parties sit for 24 hours and agree on this solution and offer a concrete and complete text to this House which could immediately thereafter verify the proposed document.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u394	I thank Mr. Herceg. I ask you to receive one of my apologies, so one of my little oversights at the opening session, later I welcome all present who attend this session today. This is Mr. Herceg's proposal, please. Who's next to the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u395	I think we're in a very delicate situation. We are practically in a situation where we do not have the Council of Ministers of BiH and if we had one, I would say, crisis. I would say that this crisis is not only a lack of the Council of Ministers, but it is also a crisis in the BiH Parliament. The BiH Parliament, and I am a parliamentarian, I think it has contributed to all this in a certain way. We have, in some ways, agreed, and in fact our provisional rules of procedure have said, that all questions first consider the House of Representatives, then the House of Peoples, and if the House of Peoples were to consider a question before, then this should be especially explained why it is done. Mr. Mugdin gave some explanations. It is clear that we need, as soon as possible, to adopt the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and, normally, to appoint the BiH Presidency, in accordance with the Constitution, a mandate to appoint ministers and deputies and to go to the House of Representatives, in order to have the Council of Ministers of BiH. However, there is now really one serious question that Mugdin was talking about. Is it possible that since 9 February, when the Law, in accordance with the declaration and decisions, as it is already called, from New York, the BiH Presidency referred us to the urgent procedure on 9 February, the BiH Council of Ministers Act, fully agreed that the House of Representatives has not yet put it on the agenda. I am not mistaken, but it is true that the BiH presidency's decision was given the same greater commendation from the senior representative, the OSCE representative and not to say from who else. I'm not talking about how much I'm into this law right now, or I'm not talking about that law. Also, I think the laws, now I repeat Mugdin, who was proposed by Mrs Havel, who was proposed by Mr Genjac, and later again by the new law proposed by the SDP, were not put under discussion at the House of Representatives. Today, we should practically consider only one bill. I will not dispute at all the decision of the High Representative that those who did not vote, that they are counting on the quorum, and that those who voted yes and against, that it is theirs. There's one other thing. The question is, how would we vote for these three years now if we knew about the decision? It's probably correct and, by 3 me, if I were to legally interpret it, it's probably correct, because they make quorum, they're sitting there, but they're not for each other either. Therefore, if we were to remove this from the agenda today and not consider it, then at least we would have to assign this College to the College of the Representatives' House, if it is possible, if the members of the BiH Presidency or their proposed advisers, to sit down and keep in mind all the drafts of the law and to come to a unique text, to accept it, all representatives of all parties and clubs, and so that we could adopt the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH for these two days and then appoint a mandate and to elect the Council of Ministers of BiH, because we are really in one big crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u396	I thank Mr. Čampara. Mr. Momir Tošić reported on the discussion. I think we all know what Mr. Avdo Čampara told us, I think it's familiar to all of us, and I have nothing against these discussions and these comments and Mr. Mugdin, what he's proposing for this session today, when it comes to my personal position. However, I think Mr. Avdo helped us here today with his discussion. We today have a law that was passed as adopted by the Representative Council. He's been through the procedure he's been through. I do not dispute and the existence of a proposal from other these proposings, when it comes to this law, but it is ours to discuss today only this law that has come as it has come, I would not now return the way it has come. I accept all these comments and accept, normally, and our obligation standing before this and other laws that Parliament needs, one and the other home to adopt and implement the procedure, so I would ask you, for this reason, how much we can focus today, only on the agenda point, not to open a debate on what the Representative Council was supposed to do. We accept and respect the work procedure of this council, means that we follow the work and those laws that pass the Council of Representatives' procedure, to observe some continuity, respecting all the obligations that we are aware of, which stand. I wouldn't accept the personal opening of a debate on any law, so a bill of this law that didn't come to us and didn't go through the Council of Representatives procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u397	I mean, would you accept or wouldn't any other law that didn't go through the House of Representatives procedure? We can, if we want, consider all the other suggestions that have come, which have not been to the House of Representatives, but we must give an explanation. I, for example, if it were a bill proposed by the BiH presidency, then it is one of the most authoritative and responsible bodies in BiH and I see no reason why this law, if necessary, should not be found today at the House of Nations. There is some conclusion here, I don't know exactly, the House of Representatives, which Mugdin may know better, at which they said they would review the laws proposed by the SDP again at the next session, the two MPs Divković and Tokić better say. However, in principle, I want us to consider all the laws and to adopt that law, which is a consensus for all of us. I am prepared, if we agree on a consensus and adopt this law by consensus, because it is of vital interest to the whole of BiH, of vital interest, cannot be more vital, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers Act 4 BiH. So that's why I'm talking. We today as if we forgot that the BiH presidency proposed a February 9th law, we have it ahead of us. So, let's see, some MPs are discussing, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u398	Gentlemen chairman, dear guests, distinguished colleagues, I don't know if we're doing well today with this session of ours. We already have, in some way, passed the law and it was announced at the 17th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives, on February 29th, and as I realized that our College had agreed that today on our National Council this law we would confirm, that, as early as tomorrow, the BiH Presidency could start proposing, i.e., a House of Representatives with a selection of the Council of Ministers. So, at this point, it's up to us to just see if this law conflicts with the interests of any of our people in BiH. I think that after a long and exhaustive discussion at the House of Representatives, with the agreement of our MPs and in some way with the consent of the OHR, we have come to the most acceptable law for all of us in BiH. I don't see any reason why today, I think all of our deadlines have come out, that we can no longer play with fate, in one quite open way we don't tell where this law is and how it affects the interests of any of the peoples of BiH and what it is that we in the Council of Nations cannot accept in any way. Anything further from this topic is moving us away and we will be the ones who will certainly be the culprits if this law again imposes on us a high representative. I don't think we should allow ourselves to play with fate anymore and, in my opinion, it would be a moment and a time to do this, maybe even take a break, agree and agree that we, as well as the House of Representatives, (to this law, which I think is quite correct), finally choose ministerial advice, and it is he who would continue to work on behalf of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u399	I would like to ask Mr. Tošić if there is one more concrete or more precise proposal than Mr. Herceg's proposal, because we have a clear proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u400	My suggestion today is that, unless there are some, let me put it this way, the brutal problems in the Council of Peoples, from our MPs here, we accept and in some way pass the law that passed and was declared on February 29, 2000. I don't see that we're going to come up with a closer absolute solution and that right now, let's say, we're on the verge of passing, according to me, an extremely important law, because there's still nothing that can work in BiH, we need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u401	Says here the law has been passed. The law is declared when adopted by both homes, signed by both chairmans and went to the Official Messenger and is known when he becomes. The Coordinators, one-third of the co-ordinator's mandate, are now being discussed here, and it is said that in the seat of the chairman, each of the third terms of the Parliamentary 5 Assembly of BiH, if I think of this Article 6. The BiH Assembly, the president of the second constituent people in BiH, is named as the co-ordinator's minister. This is quite the opposite of the Constitution, to be clear. The BiH presidency appoints the president of the BiH Council of Ministers, he is the one who appoints ministers. He can appoint the ministers and deputies he wants, not some coordinators. The other thing is there can be a political agreement, it's something else, but it can't stand in the law, because it's the opposite of the Constitution. This is the opposite of the Constitution, the exact opposite of the Constitution. It would also be annulled by the BiH Constitutional Court as is because the one appointed by the BiH presidency, it appoints ministers and their deputies, and the House of Representatives confirms them, it is a constitutional provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u402	I'd like to ask you, please, we're still only talking about the agenda. Let's not open a debate about the law standing before us. I'd like to ask you, talk and talk about the agenda, if we're going to continue this session at all and come up with a statement on the agenda. I'd like to ask you not to discuss the law until we've heard about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u403	I also welcome all present and I would like to say, on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, that we have fully accepted the agenda, and that all this debate was unnecessary on one of the possible points of the agenda, if adopted. We've lost twenty minutes here, unnecessarily, talking about a possible agenda point. Very short and precise, we support the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u405	The point is what Mr. Zorić said. The Croatian side has no reason not to accept the debate on the agenda, i.e. the agenda as a whole, but when I came out, I would say something else. Often, there is a crisis in the work of authorities, authorities as a whole, and even the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If there wasn't a dilemma, I'd at least remove that dilemma. What's the crisis? The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has two homes. I'm not talking about another home. The people's home is not in crisis, he's doing perfectly normal, very correct, and there's nothing we don't follow the House of Representatives into as it is for the Rules of Procedure. So, what I'm saying is that the House of the Peoples has worked normally so far. Let the gentlemen of the other house finish their work and I don't think there will be any home. This does not mean that this home, if it is interpreted as having passed the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, if it is true, should the authorities determine whether it is true, the Croatian side will accept a debate on the law that passed at the House of Representatives. Whether it will be adopted in the same text or some small changes and additions, we are open to any discussion and discussion, I think that this problem should finally be solved. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u406	Dear Chairman, fellow delegates, honored guests, I have already answered the floor, but a lot has been said by the previous exhibitor, Mr. Šoljić. A little bit of illogicality in Mr. Herceg's exposure, including Mr. Avdo Čampara. Mr Herceg Mugdin says that we have had in the work of the House of Peoples practice so far to follow the work of the House of Representatives and what goes on in the House of Representatives that we through our work on the House of Nations confirm it, or possibly with less corrections we try to agree and adopt what is in the interest of all three peoples and both entities. So, logically, if this law that has been proposed for today's agenda has been passed through the House of Representatives, we should respect the procedure so far and focus on what has already been passed and adopted at the House of Representatives, and not now go back and put in the process three or four more laws that have not passed the House of Representatives. Therefore, I absolutely agree with my colleagues in the order of the Serbian people, as well as with representatives from the Croatian people, that we have nothing else to discuss today but a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Council of Ministers, which has already passed the House of Representatives. Another remark about the relationship, Mr. Ljubičić said it already. Mr. Čampara is already, before we adopt the agenda, engaging in a debate on the proposed law, which we should not do before we agree on the agenda, and I would also not agree that now all these laws, which are proposed by the SDP, have two of them by the SDP, seem to me, both Mrs. Havel and the BiH Presidency and everything else, because we would therefore agree on the procedure and who knows how long it would take, perhaps a month or three, and we need the BiH Council of Ministers' Law to also work on the BiH Council of Ministers and this House and all the joint bodies at BiH level. Therefore, I absolutely support the proposed agenda by Mr. Chairman. The first item of the agenda Verifing the mandate to the gentleman, I forgot the name, and the debate on the proposed bill, which does not mean when it comes as the second item of the agenda of the bill that we cannot make certain amendments and remarks and try to bring it all into line with what was proposed, i.e. what was adopted at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u407	The esteemed BiH Presidency, colleagues, esteemed guests, I will be brief, since my colleagues have expressed a lot of attitudes that I was going to make here. An interesting one is a constant phenomenon that something declarative, in advance, is also declared by the crisis in Parliament and the Council of Ministers of BiH, etc. Interesting, just from the same people, in the same way. We have a draft agenda here today, that's why we're here, right? It's the adoption of this law. I'm begging you, let's not waste any time. Let's get to the bottom of the agenda. We started a debate about the Law, or, I don't know, about amendments, that we haven't adopted the agenda at all, yes, so we don't distract television viewers or guests, so that we can make a statement about this law and supplement it, and we can put in an addition to the agenda. But, please, in the future, not to go out for this pay phone, not to be used for some purpose of the apocalypse, it's all gone, unless someone answers. This law has come to the agenda, let's make a statement about it and vote whether we're going to work or not. That would be my suggestion. Let's give the agenda for adoption. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u408	Dama and gentlemen, I will welcome you all, there has indeed been a practice in the work so far that we have adopted, or considered the laws that have passed the House of Representatives procedure. However, it is an area for which we are all particularly interested, which is the look of the BiH Council of Ministers, which will be further organised, on which principles and how it will work. We in this home, especially knowing why we are this home, have the right to express our dissatisfaction that certain legal solutions have neither seen the light of day nor been treated at the House of Representatives, and these are the areas concerned. It is our right to express dissatisfaction and to ask it to be a procedure so that we too have a chance to discuss something called both the Council of Ministers and other legal solutions. It's not just that there's a crisis whether we have a Council of Ministers or we don't have a Council of Ministers. It's about having 30-40 projects standing in Parliament, isn't that a crisis? The legal solutions that were offered, they didn't come to the wallpaper. By all rules and by all accounts, they should be considered so far, they have been rejected, rejected, but also considered, it is a crisis. Just what you can arrange for 100% to pass, and the rest of it to stand aside, it's a crisis. It's not just a question of whether the agenda should go through here now. Let it through, I don't mind. This law will experience that statement as we consider it here, or as we think it should be defined against it and it is not disputed, but generally, Parliament's relationship, I speak now to Parliament, versus all its obligations, is not fully met. If something doesn't go through, it doesn't even go into the House of Representatives procedure, and we're discussing one of the possible solutions here, so why are we here? We demand that the House of Representatives do everything in accordance with procedure so that we too can comply with our procedure. That's the point, or the point of talking about a crisis, etc. Bringing in false optimism, here, we're good, etc., no need. That's what we know. We even know what's going on with the projects we've adopted, the laws, etc. and where they are and how they stand for a year at inter-entity alignment, so that entities take the obligation to align their solutions, etc., and that is the crisis. We can't just say everything's okay at this home, we adopted everything they missed. But they didn't even touch all the solutions in certain areas that we've been considering here, and that's the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u409	I thank Mr. Žigić. Is anyone else answering for a discussion, gentlemen? If not, I see two suggestions from this discussion. We have an offer and a proposed agenda, and a good part of the debate accepts such a proposed agenda, with this addition of the agenda that I have proposed and another proposal from Mr Herceg. I'm giving you further statements now. Do you think there's a need to take a break, or are we just going with these two suggestions? Gentlemen, five-minute breaks to bring clubs together, so let's get back to work. Gentlemen, let's get back to work. [[PAUZA]] I suggest we state the position of the parliamentary groups. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u410	The Croatian MPs' club accepts the proposed agenda, therefore, with two points. The verification of the mandate and this second point we received in the invitation. We suggest we conduct a debate on agenda points and see what is controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u411	The Serbian MPs' club accepts the agenda. The first point is to consider the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers and Ministers of BiH, because we have officially by the House of Representatives the law that has arrived and this second point to confirm our new colleagues today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u412	Just to confirm, so, just to confirm, means, the draft agenda for today's session, the first point of verification of the mandate and taking an oath with what I just want to supplement, we propose to take a separate vote on the proposed agenda points. It means a separate vote on the verification of the mandate and a separate vote on the second point, means the proposed law. Here you go. The Bosniak side. I am giving the proposed agenda for the plea. Please, who is for the first item of the proposed agenda, the verification of the mandate and the taking of Mr. Zoran Marić's oath? I'm asking for service. Is anyone against and abstentioned? So, unanimous 13 for. 2. Discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers and BiH Ministries, Proposer of MP Vita Rakić Who is at this point in the agenda? Do you mind? Unanimity. Please let's make this clear about the complete order? Is there a need to plead? There is no, with one note and a suggestion from my colleagues, it is understood that in the context of these sessions, it usually goes as usual as always the last point, and these are delegate questions. I think we're just saying that. So it's also an integral part of the agenda. Ad.1. Verification of the term of office to the delegate – Mr. Marić and making a solemn statement Please professional service, text of the oath to access the oath. I'd like to ask Mr. Marić... I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u413	I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u414	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u415	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u416	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u417	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u418	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u419	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u420	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u421	And defend the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u422	Thank you and I congratulate Mr. Marić on his sworn oath and I believe he will certainly make his contribution to the work of this council. Ad. 2. Discussing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers and Ministers of BiH – MP Vito Rakić I don't think there is any need to make any specific remarks about this law. You also received a report from the Council of Representatives meeting on the agenda. I'm giving this item to the agenda for discussion and discussion. Here you go. Does anyone want to get involved, does anyone answer for a discussion under this law, according to this agenda? 10
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u423	You see, in this law, where it is spoken in Article 3 of the Chairmanship, it is changing. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who simultaneously serves as co-ordinators' minister, two foreign ministers, the minister of civil affairs and communication and the minister of foreign trade and economic relations, is the Council of Ministers. Each minister, apart from the co-ordinator's minister, has two deputies except ministers who are not from the same constituent people, the ministers have no deputies. Article 6 is amended and reads. Look what I suggest. The chairman shall be appointed by the BiH Presidency, in the following text by the Bureau, and shall take office after it has been approved by the House of Representatives. This is to be appointed after eight months, of these co-ordinators' ministers, I think what I said earlier is contrary to the Constitution and any such stance the BiH Constitutional Court would have knocked down. These coordinators, these ministers, I don't know, in this law, but I'm proposing this kind of formula for Article 27, the ministers, there are now more members. There are three ministers of coordinators. That would be Article 27. The chairman is acting as one of the co-ordinator's ministers. He's always the chairman, but he's also the minister. Minister Coordinator, e, now, these three ministries, Minister Coordinator, do you have this text that I'm reading? Then these are the amendments. To know what the Minister is. The Minister for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum co-ordinates in actions to take action and protect human rights in accordance with the BiH Constitution and international conventions, co-ordinates in the return operations of refugees and in doing so co-operation with entities, co-ordinates policy implementation and enforcement in the areas of immigration, asylum and immigration, for this minister of co-ordinators. The second European Integration Co-ordinator and Stability Pact is coordinating policy implementation and taking measures necessary to include BiH in European integration processes and coordinating activities under the Stability Pact. The third co-ordinator, since they are not ministries, is co-ordinator for BiH's Treasury, co-ordinating in the preparation and implementation of the Budget of BiH institutions, the implementation of BiH's international financial commitments and the care of the implementation of the BiH Budget. These would be short-term areas for each minister to deal with. My first remark, which was on Article 6 to change, is in the following. That the chairman, when appointed by the BiH presidency, appoints ministers. Which he will, that's his business. We can't legally tell him you have to from these three single coordinators, it's the opposite of the Constitution. Therefore, I would not like to vote for what will fall again in the BiH Constitutional Court. Therefore, take the Constitution and read it and you will see that the BiH presidency plays a role to appoint the BiH Council of Ministers, and it appoints ministers and deputies, not anyone else. It could be a political agreement and it could be signed by the authorities, and it wouldn't be changing these people, that you and you could be all that, but the law couldn't get in, because there's no constitutional basis for that. I'm sure there's no constitutional basis for that. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u424	I think there's a need, a further clarification about what Mr. Avdo Čampara was talking about. Small consultations, listening to Mr. Čampara's proposal and discussion, raises the question, we are looking for these amendments mentioned by Mr. Avdo Čampara. I would like to point out that at the previous session we had the position of the College, which was accepted by this House, because we and the 13th session had right after the meeting of the Representative Council and when, practically, this law was disclosed, in the way it was disclosed, means how it was adopted. The position of the College was that we did not go with that agenda point to the 13th session for discussion and comment, so, here, and the circumstances under which this law was adopted on the Representative's Council and got the green light on the Representative's Council. The College's position was to remove this from the House of People's session, with the aim of trying and making further efforts to bring it together, so that the law would get green light and be adopted on the Council of Nations. Since changes, additions and corrections are possible for him to return to the Council of Representatives again, so that this law does not fully experience the debate, so that it does not completely fail. For these reasons, there was also a consultation. I want to mention it to this end and practically this discussion of Mr. Čampare is practically that. We officially amend the bill that came to us, which means from the Council of Representatives, we don't. So I'd also ask Mr. Čampara, if he already has an intention, means that this is being delivered in writing, because we've already started to discuss and discuss the law that came to us from the Representative's Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u425	Madam Chairman, fellow delegates, I would like here, in part, to challenge Mr Avdo Čampara's statement on the constitutional determination of this law, i.e., on the challenge of constitutional possibility, the basis, for selecting the co-ordinator's ministers. The BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u426	I don't dispute the choice of ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u427	No Minister, that's not what I'm talking about. The BiH Constitution, in its Article 5, says at point 4, "The BiH presidency is appointed by the foreign minister, foreign trade minister and other ministers as needed". These are the ministers of the coordinators.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u428	I'm talking to you about the chairman appointed by the president, whom he can name, and then we didn't get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u429	Then we didn't understand each other, but I think there is a constitutional basis. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u430	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try, I'm not going to interpret whether something is constitutional or not constitutional, I'm not a lawyer and I'm going to get away from it. It seems to me that the proposed legal solution is a step back from what we had. What we had, we know how it worked. We seem to be masters to introduce some new concepts into the organization of the state. As far as I know, we have ministers, let me say, normal and we have ministers without portfolios – wallets or no wallet, here, we introduce a new category of Minister of Coordinators. It would sound better to be a mediator than a coordinator, because we're used to mediators. I'm sorry to be a little cynic, but it seems that way. What's he gonna coordinate? According to who? And what's that? Is he a minister or not a minister? That's the question. We have a situation that we know has so far worked in the BiH Council of Ministers and yet, in some ways, we insist on the same solutions. Article 6, which is also here, I would say, more political member, than he is legal, also talks about a constant connection – conditioning, etc. I'd ask the question. If a member like this is represented, then what choice do we have? Let's sit down and make a deal, split it up and not make any choices at all. That'll make it easier for us to work, to simplify, to fuck what we've got, and we've done our job. The introduction of one rotation and coordination, and I don't know what's not here, indeed, leads us from the fact that we want to have a functional Council of Ministers of BiH, a council that will have its responsibilities, who will know who they will be responsible for and how they will answer and who will provide the laws before this home and that other home. Indeed, these solutions, which have been offered to us in the amendments to the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, are unacceptable to me and I think that new solutions should be sought to discuss the effective Council of Ministers of BiH, a Council of Ministers that will be acceptable to all peoples and citizens in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u431	I don't think we understand each other. Follow me, Maliću, article 6. I do not dispute at all that the three ministers of the coordinators are elected. I only dispute that in advance, and I do not dispute that every eight months, one third, of what you will, is changing from another constitutional people, the chairman, appointed by the BiH Presidency, but I dispute the provision, which is unconstitutional, that someone can determine in this law that new chairman whom he will elect as ministers, he can amend ministers, that is his constitutional right. The other thing is political, which can be arranged, so that he doesn't... but I'm speaking constitutional provision. The other thing is, it's probably not gonna happen. And that's why I'm saying that behind this, in front, to choose another coordinator, you put a stop to it. He can choose a minister, why he can't become a trade minister, and this coordinator will become a minister, etc., it doesn't matter, but I mean, he can, under the constitution, if he's authorized by the BiH Presidency to appoint the entire cabinet a new one, that's his constitutional authority. Another political agreement may be that nothing will happen and I think nothing will happen. I am speaking and I am sure that this provision, if we were to determine it, every constitutional court and our Constitutional Court would be shot down. Whether there are three coordinators or four or five, it's not at all controversial. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u432	The presidency, esteemed colleagues, guests, here, as far as I can see, there are no big misunderstandings, except that there was one fact, which is that the constituent nations are giving their representatives into rotating bodies. A Hrvat, one Bošnjak, one Srbin, comes to the Council of Ministers of BiH. It is not exclusively the BiH presidency's right to determine people according to their intentions, they will approve it from the constituent peoples. That's what this Council of Ministers law is all about. Not to make certain confusions here that the chairman-in-Office has the right to choose some coordinators, no, so each nation gives one minister, the chairman-in-Office determines the BiH presidency, and each next one goes to a key system that the BiH presidency will have to propose again, i.e. the next one. the man of the people who suggested it. So you don't need to make a mistake here. It's only here to determine whether we vote this or not. So we don't interfere here with constitutional provisions, etc. It is well said that the Council of Ministers is made up, that the constitution of the people must not be avoided. A Srbin, a Hrvat and a Bošnjak. So, only the first one proposes, in fact, the BiH presidency in the system and it does the same as in the House of Peoples. By rotating the system, comes the next one that the people have appointed as coordinator in front of them. So, just so we don't make that kind of confusion here, that much of me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u433	He can't say from the coordinator's order. He can't. He thinks of those three must be the chairman. They don't have to. What can those three ministers not be?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u434	I would, first of all, like to say one thing. I propose that this House adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and BiH ministries, with amendments adopted by the House of Representatives. Therefore, my personal proposal is to accept it today and not go into some deeper and wider debate, because it will take us far away, and if we continue to debate, we will not adopt this law in two or three months, and I said at the beginning that we need this law so that the joint institutions can work normally. Secondly, Mr. Čampara has delivered his amendments and I do not dispute that these amendments can possibly be discussed, but it is illogical for me here now that Mr. Čampar's interpretation, says that we are already predetermining whom the chairman will appoint as ministers and deputy ministers. However, in Article 6, point 2, it stands well, ministers and deputy ministers are appointed chairman. Therefore, it was given to the chairman in power, but I do not see why this is now controversial, with the previous acquisition of the BiH presidency's opinion. I think it is even a good thing that he has previously obtained the opinion of the BiH Presidency, and that, in any case, ministers and deputy ministers are appointed chairman, which is in Article 6, point 2. I say again, I do not dispute that there may be any debate about the other amendments made by Mr. Čampara, but again, I am going back to the beginning. I suggest that such a bill be adopted which has been delivered to us and the kind adopted by the House of Representatives. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u435	I thank Mr. Pajić, just one intervention. I repeat for the second time. This is where Mr. Avdo Čampara's amendment is mentioned. Apparently, not all delegates were given the written form of that amendment. I would ask professional service to deliver this to all delegates if they had it in front of them. We're talking about the proposed amendments. It passed on to the Representative Council, so it's an integral part of what's been declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u436	These amendments adopted by the House of Representatives, give them to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u437	Is anyone else answering for a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u438	Here, look at this article 6. I'm just crossing one word, otherwise it's just staying. The chairman shall be appointed by the BiH Presidency, in the following text by the Bureau, and shall take office after it has been approved by the House of Representatives. There's nothing to argue about. As the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, each third of the mandate is appointed the president of the second, i.e. the representative of the other BiH constituent people in the line of ministers. I suggest you cross the coordinator. So for the term of office, the members of all three constituent peoples in BiH are performing, making sure that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are not from the same people. I'm talking about it, I don't know if we understand each other. That this new chairman, six of them, can, not three of these, but choose who he wants.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u439	I think we understand each other now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u440	It's our practice, if it's clear, we want to make it unclear. I am therefore of the opinion that it is good for us to say which is the next chairman after the third term, that there is no crisis of any choice. He doesn't have to be a co-ordinator, he may be foreign minister, but let's write that it's true when the first third term of office is over, that we know who the next chairman is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u441	Vlado, I have to tell you honestly. That means we're taking away the constitutional right of that prime minister. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u442	It's more important here than shape. If we give the chairman, it doesn't mean that he can say that he's bringing in a godfather, for example, he doesn't have to be at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u443	I want this, that once we have passed the law, once it has been brought down once, it has been brought down by the Constitutional Court of BiH, I guarantee that this provision, if it is passed this way, that... of the three that they must be, that it will be brought down by the Constitutional Court of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u444	I was just thinking like this. I wouldn't go out here, I'm not a lawyer, I want it to be perfectly clear, that there's no doubt about who's the chairman of the Council of Ministers after one-third of the mandate, that it's not some conjecture, like this, there's a lot of problems and misunderstandings in our laws, and it shouldn't be... thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u445	I'm asking all the debaters to come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u446	I've been proposing that the benches agree differently, so here you don't know who the journalist is, who the representative is, and we represent the House of Peoples here. I want my club's representatives, after all, to be separated and that's why I'm going to propose today to redecorate the appearance of this kind of space, so I'm sitting with my club, the other with my own, the third with my own, here just one bench and then let those who aren't agents separate. This is how we look funny. Excuse me. If that's not funny to you, then prove it to me. So I took advantage of the law, and it might seem a little funny that I've been going around, but I don't think it's appropriate to go behind your back, I don't think it's polite. So I can sit there, and then who's gonna sit there, the press, we're gonna make a sausage. I was a journalist. I respect the journalistic duty above all, because I couldn't be a journalist again. Compared to these comments, I just wanted to say that constitutionally, unconstitutionally, unconstitutionally, etc., I also have to fence myself. Often people here say I'm not a lawyer. What a lawyer must know better about the constitution than I have a representative. I took an oath to the Constitution and I need to know the Constitution. And I say now, if it's unconstitutional, Mr. Čampara, I apologize, I comment on your statements on constitutional and unconstitutional. If what is written here in the proposal is unconstitutional, that the coordinators, one, two and three, eight months from different peoples, then we are breaking the Constitution here, too, I apologize. I, for example, wanted to be the chairman here, and Mr. Šoljić was delegated to the party and it was agreed between us, at the club, that Mr. Šoljić would be the one and you knew that Mr. Šoljić would be the one, you knew that Mr. Žigić would be the one and no one said that Malić should be, not the gentleman here. So we agreed at first that you were co-chairs. The word co-chairman can also say that 16 coordinators, co-ordinators, can say that he is an observer, an observer, whatever I want. After all, I don't mind that it's Šoljić. I want to explain it. If I didn't realize again, I'd like to not take time for others, but I don't see anything unconstitutional, I'm sorry, then we're unconstitutional, too, if we're pushing this today. If it's our goodwill, please, it's a matter of goodwill here. If we are here in BiH representatives of the three peoples' will, exactly, and we represent the will of the people, then, please, there is no right for anyone to enjoy greater rights than the other. In the homes of the people, please, I wish it were so in the Federation of BiH, but unfortunately it is not. Unfortunately not. I didn't have a chance when it was decided and that's how it was, and otherwise, I'm the eternal dissatisfaction of the Federation of BiH Constitution and the government of the Federation of BiH. My people there are up to a third of one in the government, not in Parliament, but in the government they are. Of course I'm not happy and that's why what's going on is happening. I want to say this, one more thing. Whatever the responsibility of me as a representative here is, the same is the same responsibility of the majority people in every place where they can vote the minority. We have been voting in the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH for the fourth year. No one's said yet, no one, that we're too loud and then we come to the House of Peoples and then we're obstructing, etc. Please, if things are clear and if there is a genuine desire that we are equal here, completely equal, then, please, there is no interference here in this proposal. I came out as an agent. It's just a matter of goodwill. If anyone wants to stall something, it's another thing, I apologize, Avdo, we're fellow MPs, I don't want to hurt you at all, I consider you to be a serious man and a representative with the greatest internship here and I always expect from you, I'm serious, one objective solution, aside from what we sometimes joke about, so the joke is good and useful, after all, should endure this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u447	I thank Mr. Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u448	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I think the debate on this good part is unnecessary. You won't mind me reading the constitutional provision, and then it'll be clearer to us. The BiH presidency will appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who will take office following the approval of the House of Representatives. The chairman will be appointed by the minister and now lists them. Article 6 contains this second part. A representative of the second constituent people in BiH from the co-ordinator's office is appointed as chairman every eight months. Where is the foothold now, who appoints these coordinators and where and who will appoint them? How do we get to those coordinators? This law does not provide for that. I need you to find me a provision that says who appoints those coordinators.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u449	Council of Ministers. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u450	The BiH Council of Ministers' composition, but who appointed it? The Council's composition, the chairman of the Council, is appointed by the BiH presidency, all others appointed by the chairman. So this is Avda's interpretation in place, that there is no constitutional standoff, and then what you say is the law, not the law, but that political will, the political agreement, and everything else is settled again. So we're going around something that isn't very important at this point, essentially, but it's against the constitution if it's left like it's now spoken, because the chairman has to appoint everything else. We're going to the coordinators here now. There's no footholds in the Constitution for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u451	To be clear, the benches change, but I don't like to go around. It writes nicely here that the minister and deputy ministers are appointed chairman, with the BiH presidency's input and co-ordinators are ministers, as they are called, the ministers. The second is the BiH presidency to appoint the chairman of the council. I'm surprised that people who won't do something today didn't worry that the Council worked for so many years, and the BiH Constitutional Court has only just challenged it. Maybe this council will last four years too, so let's let the people work under this law until the Constitutional Court remembers and throws out this one word Mr. Čampara is talking about. I am absolutely in favour of adopting this law in addition to the amendments the House of Representatives has adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u452	There is one question Mr. Žigić has been asked here. Minister of Coordinator, what's the minister? Which is what the minister is a co-ordinator. If you can explain it, we'll accept it immediately. What is the second co-ordinator of the minister? That's what Mr. Čampara is asking to sign up for him without being called the coordinator.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u453	I'm going back to the member, it's connected to Article 3 and Article 6. The link between Articles 3 and 6 should be seen and it will be quite clear. In Article 3, point 1 states: “The chairman of the Council of Ministers and two Ministers of Coordinators”, so these coordinators are ministers, what Mr Zorić said, and these two ministers are co-ordinators and follow-up, what was adopted by the House of Representatives. Who are these coordinators, who, besides other jobs, will coordinate the area of human rights and European integration? These are the two co-ordinators' ministers and it is quite clear who they are and the ministers are co-ordinators and what the coordinators are for. It clearly says, in Article 3, Section 1, again in Article 6, point 2, this confirms again. Ministers and deputy ministers, so these two co-ordinators and they are ministers. And the deputies are appointed chairman, but now, in your opinion, it is disputed, I do not know what is controversial, with the previous acquisition of the BiH Presidency's opinion, and they take office after they are approved by the House of Representatives and I think this is quite right and that there is really no longer any dilemma, and the coordinators are ministers and have their responsibilities and how they are appointed and everything is regulated, therefore everything is clear and absolutely acceptable. I think on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, I'm saying this and after this, I don't think there should be any more dilemma. I see that's where the colleagues from the Croatian people agree. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u454	It's not working here, nor is it disputed that we choose three coordinators, it's not at all controversial. It's a dispute that we're limiting these two possibilities. It is a dispute that we by law want to tell the BiH presidency that after eight months he cannot choose from the order of ministers, six of them, but must choose from the co-ordinator's order. That's unconstitutional. We don't have that right. I listened to you, I'm sorry, but what you were saying, we're Hercegovac, friends, the Constitution thing has nothing to do with it. Therefore, we cannot tell the BiH presidency, you of six ministers must choose that and that. The BiH presidency will elect, out of six ministers, who they consider to be the mandater, to be the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers will then appoint ministers and deputies, that is, the essence of everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u455	Is anyone answering now? Please, since we have here, please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u456	If the BiH presidency appoints the chairman, he then appoints ministers and deputy ministers. You're not listening to me. He appoints ministers, and co-ordinators are ministers. What's the matter here?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u457	It is disputed that the BiH presidency is determined, let's say, that it cannot appoint a minister of civil affairs for the chairman or for foreign affairs or trade, that is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u458	It's not a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u459	Well, that's what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u460	It doesn't say. It doesn't say it has to. It doesn't say anywhere it has to be, it has to rotate. I'm sorry, I don't want to have a dialogue. One of the co-ordinators, as well as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, can die, can be delegated by the people or by the political party who has delegated him and nothing has been disputed by the BiH presidency. Will he of those two who, if we reflect this on the current mandate of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, if two people are co-ordinators for eight months, it does not mean that they will be the chairman. They can change several times in those eight months, because it's, a man can die, it doesn't write in the Constitution again, it doesn't say in the law, etc. We all know what this is about. He wants a rotating... chairman of the Council of Ministers, just as we have in the House of Representatives, as we have here... We don't need each other. This isn't against the Constitution. If the BiH presidency 19 does something that doesn't comply with this law, then we're wrong, and you'll see it won't. We narrowed it down to the coordinator's order. Whether it will be or not, the BiH presidency will decide. The law is good and the law is constitutional. So far, the Council of Ministers has not been well, and that's why we're changing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u461	I think we understand what Mr Čampara's fundamental objection is, we understand here, as this law limits the BiH Presidency's right to choose any minister in the next term, and not the coordinator, we understand there. But why, now I wonder and ask you. Why would the BiH Presidency not respect the law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH? This isn't against the constitution. We will pass the law and that the law is respected by all and by the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u462	Chairman... Vinko Zorić, you've come out and you've been given the word, I accept it because we've done it today, but I don't accept that someone who isn't a member of this house throws it as I speak, I don't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u463	I think we can end this debate about this law. We received a proposal from this law, which went through the procedure as it went to the Council of Representatives. Here we have the text and these amendments that were discussed on the Representative Council, which are part of this law that was on the Representative Council. Here we have two, however, separate opinions on this, and I would ask Mr. Čampara to be in writing, so, put, however, his proposal, that, however, we have him here, I think, as such, he should go to the hearing first, and then we go to a statement on the amendments that came to us from the Representative's Council and then a statement on the Law. So I'd like to ask professional services just to shape it up for us. So, the proposal and application of Mr. Čampara so we can move on with our work. I suggest a break. I think that if there are no more debaters, we end up having a further discussion of this, I suggest we take a break, in writing Mr. Čampara delivers to the professional service, that the professional service multiplys it, that we have that, so that MP clubs can take their stand and that we no longer take breaks, means that we bring the end to this session in the follow-up debate. In the meantime, within this break, we have been given the written form of the amendment proposed by Mr. Avdo Čampara. [[PAUZA]] I'm giving these amendments to the plea. Let's take it in a row. Amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers and ministries of BiH. 20 Amendment 1. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Ministries, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 4/9, Article 3 is amended and reads as follows: "Article 3. 1. The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who simultaneously serves as co-ordinators' minister, two foreign ministers, the minister of civil affairs and communication and the minister of foreign trade and economic relations are the Council of Ministers. 2. Each minister, apart from the co-ordinator's ministers, has two deputies, who are not from the same constituent people as the ministers of the co-ordinators. Ministers coordinators don't have a deputy. 3. The chairman and two co-ordinators' ministers must be representatives of all three constituent peoples in BiH." Any objections to this amendment. Who's in favour of the proposed amendment? - 12 for it. I don't think we had any entity support here. Please, a statement by entities, by clubs. I'd like a statement from the Croatian delegates' club. Who's in favor of this amendment? Serbian delegates' clubs. The Bosniak delegates' clubs. The amendment didn't go through. Amendment 2. In Article 6, in point 1, the words "the representative of the second constituent people in BiH from the co-ordinator's order" are replaced by the words "the chairmanship of the other constituent people in BiH". Who's in favor of this amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u464	On behalf of the delegates from the Serb people, before the vote on Amendment 2, I request a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-03-21-0.u465	I'm just asking the professional service to give me information on the previous statement, to keep it in the stenogram, so we're giving you ten minutes break. 12 delegates voted for this amendment. Against 2. 21 In the second round, the Bosniak Order Club voted 2, from the order of Serbian delegates 5 for, from the order of Croatian delegates 5 for. Ten minutes break, gentlemen. We declare Amendment 2, to read this amendment. [[PAUZA]] In Article 6, in point 1, the words "the representative of the second constituent people in BiH from the co-ordinator's order" are replaced by the words "the chairmanship of the other constituent people in BiH". Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against it? Abstained? Give me, what are the results? How much is it for? - Against. Please, we're going to a club statement. No, he didn't. He didn't get most of it. Let's just figure it out. This amendment was voted 2 against 11 and abstention 1. The amendment wasn't adopted. Amendment 3. Article 27 is amended and reads: “There are three ministers of coordinators. The chairman is acting as one of the co-ordinator's ministers. The minister of human rights co-ordinator, refugees, immigration and asylum, co-ordinates in actions to protect human rights in accordance with the BiH Constitution and international conventions. He co-ordinates in refugee returns and is working with entities to do so. It co-ordinates policy implementation and enforcement in the field of immigration of asylum and immigration. The Minister of European Integration and Stability Pact is coordinating policy implementation and taking the necessary measures to include BiH in the European integration processes and co-ordination of activities under the Stability Pact. BiH institution's Co-ordinator for the Treasury, co-ordinates in the preparation and implementation of the Budget of BiH institutions, implements international obligations and co-ordinates overall activities to secure budget funds. I shall give the declaration of Amendment 3. Who's in favor of this amendment? Who's against this amendment? Abstained? I agree, for Amendment 3; v. 2; abstentions 11 and this amendment has not been adopted. Please, we now need to make a statement on the proposal, that is, the Law delivered to us by the Representative Council, which you received in the invitation to this agenda. Who's up for the proposed law? Following the amendments and additions, according to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers and ministries of BiH, which was adopted by the Representative Council, means the Law with those amendments and additions. 22 Who's against it? Abstained? We're going to the second round of voting. Please, a club statement. Please, Bošnjak klub, who is for this proposal, who is for this bill, the Bosniak side? - There's no one. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Please note this information. I would like a statement from the Members of the Republic of Slovenia. Who's up for the law? - Five for it. There's no one to fight or to hold back. Unanimity. Please be made known by representatives of the Croatian people. Who's up for the proposed law? - 5. We can give the results, explain them. Just for the purpose of finding out. Let me do it again. For the proposed Law in the first round, the vote was 10 – against 3 – abstention 1. In the second round of voting for the proposed law – the Bosniak club of MPs, no one voted for it. Oppose 3 - abstention 1. A club of MPs from RS, 5 for. From the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People, 5 for. This law has not been passed. Please, this concludes the 14th session of the PSBiH People's House. Any parliamentary questions? There isn't. The seat's finished at 6:15.
