ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5679	I believe there are enough representatives in the hall, hoping that the others will come after the call. I'm asking the secretariat to call the MPs. Please, we're starting work. Please, before we get started, I suggest we call the MPs, so we know who's present and who's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5680	Can we get started? The Federation of BiH Bećirbašić Branko – there is Bičakčić Edhem – there is Karić Munira – there is Čaršimamović Tarik – there is Kulović Hamdija – there is Banjac Mediha – there is Genjac Halid – there is Špirić Adnan – there is no Rađević Desanka – there is Baković Mirko – there is Jovanović Perkanović Mara minus Pamuk Mustafa – there is Silajdžić Haris – there is no Spahić Nikola – there is no Deretić Suada – there is a presence of BošnjakMilenka Ivo – there is no Divković Lozančić – there is a presence of Bogić Bogičević Bogičić – there is a presence of Vito Sejfudin – there is a Djadžija Zlatko – there is a presence of Dokić Ana – there is a presence of Zovko Ljubomir – there is not a presence of Pašalić Ivo – there is not a presence of Baštak Žhotak Lhotak Ivica – there is not a lota Krk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5681	Mr. Kadić has something to say about a roll call, I don't know. How much is present?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5682	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, dear guests, during the nomination, Mrs Todorović called for two men for whom, for one I know for sure, he resigned and sent the letter twice to the OSCE and the chairman of the dom, it is Mr Oručević, and on the other hand, it seems to me as far as I know, that Mr Kulović resigned from the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. At the last session, I asked the OSCE, which verified the mandates of elected deputies, why it takes so long for the resignation of a member of the House of Representatives to be legitimateized and we are coming into a rather unpleasant situation. I want to react on behalf of my colleagues who have resigned, and here they are still being held as MPs and do not come to meetings because they have resigned, and on the other hand, their status is not regulated by the OSCE decision and there is no replacement, so we are denied the presence of two possibly members of Parliament in the House of Representatives. I think the Chairman of the House has to contact the OSCE urgently and ask for a solution to this situation, in order to avoid inconvenience for the people who resigned, and on the other hand, to enable as high-quality work as possible of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5683	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić. We think this is a valid remark and we'll try to solve it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We have a quorum, and I suggest, before the session begins, that we listen to the Bosnian Herzegovina anthem. 3 In addition to the MPs, the meeting was invited by the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as representatives of the ministries, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Monitoring Mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH, representatives of the FAR Project, we are also calling on representatives of the public communication funds, all present warmly to note that I also welcome Mrs Sonja Mozer... who is also present here in front of the EU at our meeting. According to the service report, the session is attended by 30 MPs. The absence was announced and justified by representatives Ivo Mijačević, Ljubomir Zovko and Vito Rakić. Representative Tarik Čaršimamović reported that he would be two hours late for the session. Mr. Safer Oručević is in resignation, but the OSCE has not yet received a decision on his replacement, which Mr. Kadić has already asked for an answer. Dear gentlemen, I suggest we get started. We have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. For the 23rd session, you received a draft agenda, agreed at the session of the College on 15 June. In the draft agenda, it is not stated by the omak that MP Haris Silajdžić is a draft law from number 7 to number 12 of the proposed agenda. Therefore, I remind you now, although you have received this knowledge when receiving these drafts. I would like to inform you that we held a meeting of the Colleges this morning with representatives of the club representatives and representatives of the parties who do not have representatives. True, that meeting, as regularly, was not responded in large numbers, but we had a quorum. We have considered the draft agenda and agreed that all the proposed items of the agenda are going except for point 4. A draft law on taking office as a member of the BiH presidency during the term of office. Why? In the meantime, we have received an intervention from BiH Presidency Chairman Alija Izetbegović, who is referring to this point. The chairman of the BiH presidency believes that the debate on this issue should be extended until the announced OHR and OSCE proposal to regulate the process of replacing BiH presidency members arrives, this towards knowledge and treatment. Therefore, we have proposed that item 4. be removed from the agenda proposal and, without point 4, the draft agenda will be proposed in front of the three of us. That would be our notes. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. I ask MPs to be constructive, decadent and clear. Here's who's calling for a debate on the occasion of the agenda proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5684	Honorable Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I'm just one little correction. No agreement on the agenda was reached at the College, but everything that came to the House on the agenda was put on the agenda, so we agreed, and whether or not it will go into the agenda, it will be discussed. Therefore, no agreement has been reached on the agenda points, but it is said, we accept that everything that has arrived in the agenda is proposed, and in the debate we will see whether it can go into the agenda or not, to be quite precise. 4 Of course, I reserve the right to talk about the agenda later.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5685	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament - MPs, I suggest that, as part of today's session, the draft law on sports be included. A draft law on sport was made by a group of experts from both Bosnian Herzegovina entities, in parliamentary procedure, formally directed by individual MPs Ristan Ristić from Independent Social Democrats and Ivo Lozančić from NHI, Ivo Divković, Mugdin Herceg and I from SDP. A draft law on sports is the need and requirement of a number of sports associations, which has been confirmed at several held conferences under the auspices of international institutions and represents the possibility that Bosnian Herzegovic sport, top sports, will be presented on the international stage, sports scene, regulate the possibility of funding, i.e. organising sports events, the status of facilities and a whole range of other issues related to sports in BiH. Given that this is the interest of both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities, since there is an exceptional requirement in the public that this issue is being resolved and given the particulars expressed by party representatives in recent talks with representatives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, that BiH legislation is being built, I expect there will be no problem that today, as a point of the agenda, the parliamentary initiative, I draw, the first law in the parliamentary procedure after Dejton, which was addressed by representatives of political parties based in both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities. I thank the chairman, and I'd like to ask another question to the Kolegijum. According to which Rules of Procedure is the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is this according to the Rules of Procedure adopted at the House of Representatives, or in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which has not yet been published either under the Interim Rules of Procedure, and why has the Rules of Procedure adopted not been published in the Official Journal, given the urgency of such a document for the work of this High House?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5686	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. I'll answer the second question right away. We're still working on the Interim Rules of Procedure, respecting a procedure that is regular and which, as far as I know, we haven't broken. So a new Rules of Procedure will be published and as soon as it is published, as far as I know, eight days after that, we are obliged to move on to the new Rules of Procedure. If you're satisfied with the answer, if you're not, go ahead. Your proposal you will deliver, i.e., we will consider your proposal item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5687	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the guests of the session, I have an obligation to read a letter on behalf of an organization that has spoken to me. It is about the organisation of the Red Cross/Brussels in Sarajevo. It requires that today I request that the law you removed from the previous session, which I did not participate in, on the Red Cross/Crist Bill draft, be placed on the agenda of both homes, in this case at our House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The explanation is as follows. We believe that the argument that the bill should not be included in the agenda, which we heard 5 in the direct TV broadcast of the House of Representatives session, is not legally based and reflects the purely political unwillingness to bring the process of transforming the Red Cross/Brussels Cross to an end. We draw attention to the inaccuracy of Mr Mirko Banjac's allegations that the BiH Council of Ministers adopted a decision on the formation of a Red Cross/Brussels Society. Such a decision has not been made. On the contrary, the BiH presidency, in its meeting of 6.10.1999, tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to speed up the procedure for the adoption of the Red Cross/Crist Act, which is in line with the BiH Constitution. We remind you that the Red Cross/Brussels BiH was founded and has been functioning continuously since 1914. The work of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH was regulated by the Law on the Position and Authorisations of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH and by the Law on the Use of the Protection Mark and the Name of the Red Cross/Cross of BiH, the "Official Journal of the Republic of BiH", the number 21792 and 13/94, which remain in force until the adoption of a new regulation. It is signed by the Secretary-General of this organisation in BiH, and on behalf of this request, I ask that this bill be put back under discussion on the agenda of Parliament, of course, and on the basis of this and Parliament? the second part of the House of the People of BiH. I would like to say, given that we have received information that we are working on the Rules of Procedure, which is the Interim Rules of Procedure, I ask one precise, quite clear question, given that I can do this, because I see here that Foreign Trade Minister Mr Kurtović is here. It will be almost a year as we asked that the information Mr Kurtović has presented here on the economic and social situation in BiH and the obligations of BiH regarding legal activity, in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, be presented to this parliament. In public today, BiH, not only in the media, but in real political assessments in BiH, as well as in the world regarding BiH, is mentioned three concepts. 1. A Catastrophic economic situation, 2 / 1 Collapse bh. Economy 3. Bankrot bh. It is inadmissible, in my opinion, that the initiative of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which makes up the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, is officially addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and with three very clear answers from Minister Kurtović that there is such information, finally, and, behold, it has been several months since then, that we do not have that information. It is inadmissible that the BiH Parliament can simply watch society get poor and that the basic basis for life in BiH is falling apart. I cannot understand that there was at all a debate on anyone here in Parliament, unfortunately I did not participate last time, and I will see how the debate on the new Council of Ministers of BiH will take place today. If there are no assumptions that someone behind a body called the Council of Ministers of BiH can offer appropriate answers and a programme to these two central issues of every state and every society. I demand, given that I have seen in our Parliament's work programme, that only in September on the agenda will this topic, which has been shaped in fact by this house, along with another home and with the full consent of the relevant minister, who still has full office, I cannot understand that this point is placed on the agenda in September of the month. That's about what they say, on the holy one. 6 As regards the calendar we have now for the summer period, from 4 July to 22 August, I do not, of course, claim that this item can be on the agenda today, because, above all, MPs have not received this, but I demand that the Parliament, which has asked the Council of Ministers for this information, make it quite clear that at the first next session, which means that this information will be sent to their homes, that a joint session of the House of Nations and the House of Representatives be held, and that this issue will be discussed as a first item, with all due respect to the laws we had on the agenda, this is one proposal, a requirement that I would not want to remain in the form of the promises to discuss, rather than to request a statement from fellow Members of Parliament, who voted and asked for it almost a year ago and obtained assurances that this material exists, I would require that this material to be made available. In this regard, I also ask that all MPs, together with the material that exists, which we have been informed of, are not any state secret, economic situation and social situation in BiH. Also, every MP, as we did yesterday and the day before yesterday with the European Parliament delegation, needs to be delivered a statistical yearbook from May 2000, which is on my desk, because we have made one decision that we will ask our Statistics Agency for members of Parliament, both of them, to have the opportunity to regularly receive statistical reports on their country and the situation in that country. I ask that the Statistics Act, which is there in the agenda, somewhere late in the fall, speeds up its adoption and that, above all, we have the opportunity to get that document. The document was published, the official document, the government's agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5688	Mr Spahić, we're discussing the agenda item today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5689	I ask for this and thirdly, I want Mr Mirko Banjac's statement on the third point, unfortunately, when I was talking about the first question not, unfortunately, Mr Banjac, as much as I have registered, but in a conversation with the delegation, with the European Parliament, then I am not from, normally, simply, I would say cool... the reason why we are acting in relations with the world, I wanted to set up, but now I am asking, given that I have heard such formulations and that I have heard the assessments, a very clear statement and a very clear view of the fact that one of the few obligations that arise from our approach to the Ve, which is an area concerning education and that document signed by the resolute ministers of the two entities, which has been classified as in some shift towards our approach to the Ve, requested information and the answer that something that is possible in the international and domestic public opinion of the European Parliament as being able to put into one significant contact with one of the other in terms of the European Parliament, which, which is the European economy, which is directly into the most important relationship in terms, in terms, in terms, in terms, and in terms, in terms, in terms of the European affairs, in terms, and in terms, in terms, in terms of the European affairs, and in terms, in terms of which, and in terms, in terms of which, in which, in terms of the European Parliament, in which, and in terms of which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, in which, I, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in which, I, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, I, in particular, I, in terms, in terms of the European, I, in terms, I want, in particular, I, I, in particular, in particular, I want, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, in particular, I would be, in terms, I would be, in terms, in particular, in particular, in particular, in terms of the most, I, in terms of the terms of the most, I, in terms of the most, in terms of the most., in particular, in particular, in terms of I simply ask Mr Banjac, or special information to this House, on this document, concerning the signed, declaration or declaration of education. The key issue for BiH is education. For the first time, an international organisation, the European Parliament, has opened the issue, and we have found ourselves in a situation that we, as MPs, have not been able to react in that place, but now that this is the BiH Parliament, it would not be good if we had a double archin, one via the entity, another 7 through the state parliament. The world expects us to have a consistent policy and a serious relationship on the internal agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5690	And we're discussing the agenda. The Republic has a gentleman in charge, Mirko Banjac, so it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5691	Dear Members of the Parliament, honored guests, as far as anyone understands a particular problem, I would not enter into it, that will be the conclusion of those who listen. So I have no intention of explaining it, nor is it my goal, but calling on something you don't understand, then it's better to ask. It's far better to ask. I have neither said nor thought that the problems in the field of education should not be solved, it is not my idea, but I have asked another question, and that is how it is possible to talk about the application of documents signed by ministers, which are executive bodies, and that Parliament is passing by. I don't agree with that, and I'll never agree. I, gentlemen, am not a constituency monk, I cannot be ordered an opinion here, and I want you here, Mr. Tokić, to be nice to me, to Bog, and I want us to discuss all matters as MPs. I will be very happy to get involved in the debate and explain my opinion on this, when this point is on the agenda, and don't ask questions here, and there are no points on the agenda. I'd be happy to accept this item on the agenda. I'm sure the two of us will get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5692	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5693	Okay. I'm obliged to take a break, but, please, let us respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5694	Dear fellow Members, distinguished guests, since this session is scheduled for 11 hours, we begin after 12 hours, and we are still tied around the agenda, I would try to make a contribution, related to the agenda in the next sense, would also be a proposal. But since we have heard from Mr Banjac that the agenda of the College has not been agreed, firstly to let us know, whether the agenda, or all points, whether the Council of Ministers of BiH has taken a position on the same, because that way we will surely resolve some dilemmas. Also, I ask the President of the Constitutional Commission to make that statement, too, is one thing. I think in that way we'll solve a lot of things and certain dilemmas, eventually, if there's any around the agenda. On the other hand, here, unfortunately, it is the usual procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure it is also allowed to propose new points of the agenda, supplementing the agenda, and, among other things, it is proposed to put it on the agenda, among other things, and the Sport Act. I'll be, uh, I'll have to make a statement here right away, against it for the next reasons, against that proposal. 8 First, I, as an MP, asked a parliamentary question, which was related to this item of the agenda, and I also asked two parliamentary questions in the 9th month of last year, until today, I have never received an answer from the authorities. My question, related to sports, has just been addressed, among other things, about the appearance of athletes from RS, which is decidently indicated by the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH and RS. Unfortunately, here to this day, the issue has not been resolved at all at BiH level. International emissaries who are trying with relevant, relevant factors come to BiH to resolve the issue of sports status in BiH, we have so far not solved the issue. You are likely to know that these days qualifications for the participation of teams from entities, or BiH, have been completed in European competitions. For example, I will only mention volleyball here, where men and women's teams from the RS provided participation, however, when they were to be reported by the BiH volleyball union, conditions were set for them, so they have to perform in front of BiH, and in this context they are not reported, but the federal team has been reported, therefore, from another entity. So, we can't discuss at all, nor are conditions created on the Law on Sport at BiH level, until basic things are resolved on the status of sport, respecting BiH, which consists of two equal entities, as the Dejton and the BiH Constitution envisions. So I don't think there's any room for today, nor are the conditions for putting the draft of this law, which, truth, we have received earlier, on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5695	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding Mr Spahić's proposal, I would have to explain a certain situation presented in the letter of the Red Cross delivered to Mr Spahić. Some of the things mentioned in the letter do not correspond to the truth. At the 34th meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which took place in February of this year, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision on the establishment of a Red Cross organisation and we had reason to pay attention to their problems. It is very important to note that the decision is based on a deal between entity red crosses and, essentially, they made it, we were just considering some provisions in that decision. Unfortunately, Mr Silajdžić, meanwhile, you know that there has been a change, namely that the BiH Council of Ministers, by decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, has ceased to function in that system in which it previously worked, Mr Silajdžić should have been a signator, given the Rules of Procedure, as it was previously done, to be a signator of the decision, in order to be published in the Official Journal, however, he did not. I think this seems a lot of damage to the Red Cross, because they have in November a session where they should perform together and leave this decision aside, or, by not signing, I feel like there's a lot of damage. I say the decision was made exclusively, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications worked on that decision for about a year and the decision was made solely on the basis of the consent of the red crosses of entities. I also have to say that there is one problem in the Federation of BiH, that there are two Red Cross organisations there and that they still don't know who is responsible or how it is, because the Federation of BiH has not passed its law, nor has it adopted regulations that regulate that area. Perhaps 9 is the problem, but I personally think that the procedure that has been implemented and that the decision taken is extremely high quality and that it should take effect at least in the new composition of the BiH Council of Ministers. I would also like to say that I recently spoke with a new representative, or president of the Red Cross, of the International Red Cross for BiH, and he demanded that the decision-making process be speeded up. I think it's a much shorter decision and it'll satisfy it. The international red cross does not insist on the law being passed, but simply insists that the regulation we have passed be passed, and as the Council of Ministers of BiH we were authorised. To avoid all that disputed procedure, because there are also questions whether it is in BiH's jurisdiction at all, whether it is entity jurisdiction, we have decided to go ahead with the decision. The decision is supported by entity red crosses. The BiH Council of Ministers passed, and it remains only for Mr. Sijaldžić to sign, he did not. Later, some complications appeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5696	I give Mr. Tokić a word, then a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5697	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs - MPs, I owe one explanation. In fact, as Mr. Banjac spoke, at his part of the speech where he said he would never speak his mind, I laughed, I owe that explanation, I'll try to refrain next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5698	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5699	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate the work of this Parliament, I fully agree, if, of course, Mr Banjac remains on the agenda for education in BiH. If Mr Banjac agrees, here I am asking the question here from the pay phone, I am very interested and in the mood to be the point on the BiH Parliament's agenda. I ask that it be included in Parliament's programme, then we no longer have to argue about it. There are opportunities, there is a stenogram from the talks with the European Parliament, who is interested, takes a stenogram reads and then will see what it is. That's one thing. I am interested and happy to talk about education at BiH level, because it is a key responsibility towards the whole of our society. If Mr. Banjac is ready, I withdraw unpleasant words until you read the stenogram, and then you decide, when there is a debate, which arguments are better, which is a bigger expert, here you go, Mr. Banjac, if you're ready, I'm willing to compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5700	Here, Mr. Spahić called my chairman, so let's make that exception, then pause. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5701	Since I have been asked the question and I want to say, once again, that the problems in the field of education are burdened and very serious. But solving the problem within education should be the subject of debate in the BiH Parliament, that someone does not think it is prejudicial to any solutions, which we will agree and how and what we will discuss, but the fact that the declaration, as an expression of the individual's will in the executive body, cannot have an implementing character. That's what I said, and I think we should talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5702	That other point regarding Mr. Ašanin, Minister Ašanin. I would like to say that I did not question here the integrity of the BiH Council of Ministers' institution, and I am pleased that Mr Ašanin very precisely explained that, in accordance with the legitimacy of any decision, in fact, that decision and as it was written by the Secretary-General, it was never signed or published in the Official Journal. Therefore, the decision does not exist and cannot be called on sooner, signed by the chairman, no respect for the Council of Ministers procedure and no public one, which is the key criteria of each political position. Secondly, when it comes to politics, how there was a conversation between the president of the International Red Cross and the representative of our ministry and the minister, I appreciate that these contacts exist and that they are normal, however, we are a country that can act only under the law. The Red Cross Act, there is no dilemma, there can be no jurisdiction of any decision, it can only be the position of the BiH state and I don't think there is a dispute. It's an artificially forced dispute involving different interpretations, different con... encounters. My view is simply, within the framework of this Rules of Procedure, I demand the individual MP's statement on the inclusion in the agenda of the Red Cross Act, which was properly delivered to our Parliament long ago. As for sports, Mr. Deretić, I'd like to tell you something. In your arguments against the debate on this law, you have given an argument to discuss this law. If it is true that from football to basketball, what BiH represents in the world, it would be normal for such a law to be in the process, and it would not be an obstacle to it. I appreciate that you are looking for an exhaustive debate in committee form, but here we have a person who is president of the Olympic Committee and who, past any possible interpretations and different games, has provided that BiH has a performance in Sydney, as well as any other national and other national team. Therefore, try to save your souls, as you would say, and let's bring that law as soon as possible and as much as possible to be a better interest in young people, who have no reason to suffer the harassment of MPs at any level regarding the disposal of their life course and talent and all that they... as free people and that belongs to the Declaration of Human Rights. The right to define for what you are great, capable of going to competition, and it's a new society. We can't suspend them for five years right to compete, as athletes, on the entire globe equally, as we can't give an economist or an 11-year-old lawyer, we simply don't have the right to do it, and because of the fundamental rights of these young people, including the old and disabled, because various sports are available daily, there's no point in putting it off. No Niko has the right to make arguments that are against the nature of man and against the fundamental rights of man. It's one of those systems, too, at the Red Cross. There is no globe of this kind of game, five years to turn something about human work, the search for missing persons, for people, thousands of people have disappeared in BiH, and there is no telling where they are, and we are playing around if we want to make a decision, if we are going to establish a rule by law. That's the problem with BiH. We'll come to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5703	Here's the problem with the agenda. Mr. Deretić, come in, do you have an answer? I'm interrupting the debate on this point and I'm taking a break after Deretic's reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5704	Anyway, I still have to replicate, but this is a classic replacement of thesis. I was particularly pleased that Mr Spahić, who has been an MP, as I have for two years, raised this issue in the name of humanity and athletes at the level of all BiH. Sportsmen from RS are not allowed to go out on an international stage unless certain conditions dictated by the Olympic Committee and other sports associations at BiH-based level in Sarajevo since '92 are accepted. the year to this day. Therefore, Dejtonom and the BiH Constitution have been decidently indicated how athletes can come out on an international stage. Therefore, until the issue is resolved and equal treatment for RS athletes to come to the international stage, under the flag of what is provided for by the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, there is no discussion on the Law on Sport at BiH level. Thank you very much. Break, half an hour. I'll see you at exactly 1:00. We're continuing this session. [[PAUZA]] Since we have not yet completed the debate on the agenda, and Mrs Rađević has asked for a break, please let Mrs Rađević explain the break. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate on the agenda point, but please stick to the agenda points, so we don't go to those things that really don't belong here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5705	Ladies and gentlemen, now I want to talk about the agenda. You have received a proposal, we have agreed at the College, that there would be no misunderstanding, that we have included all the points that technically met the conditions to be on the agenda, and that is why I now take the right to discuss the agenda, as an MP. Given the situation that I think is close to favourable, and I hope there are good assumptions that today we will have a complete Council of Ministers of BiH, I suggest we postpone the debate on the 5th agenda, until the Council of Ministers on this point, on this point, on this law, also refers to points 6, 7, 8, 9, 10., 11 and 12. The fact is that none of this point of the BiH Council of Ministers has given its opinion, and 12 needs to be given an opinion on these points, I think all of these points should be postponed for the next session and given an urgent task to the BiH Council of Ministers to declare and report here within seven days on their position under these draft electoral laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5706	Thank you very much. You heard that suggestion. I'm opening up the debate. Who's this?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5707	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, regardless of some clarifications from the vice-president of this House, I believe that these 7,8.9 and 10 further to 12, since the laws have arrived at the same time, or the draft law on public roads, then the draft law on interstate and inter-entity road transport of passengers and goods and the draft law on road safety of road traffic, should be found on the agenda of this home and discussed, precisely in this area of transport, i.e. road transport and the largest anarchy in BiH, i.e., the most unregulated things, and we have cases of transport being dealt with each and that in BiH they enter, uncontrollably, foreign carriers without any permits or with a single-use permit, and it is used several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5708	Is anyone else answering for a hearing? I'm closing the debate. Mr. Rasim Kadić, you had an administrative session – constitutional, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5709	First of all, I would like to make a statement and support the MPs who asked for the agenda to be included in the laws which, in my opinion, are unworthy of getting off the agenda from last session, it is the Red Cross Act in BiH, the Law on Sports of BiH, that is, I support the efforts of the MPs to put it back on the agenda today, that is to say. Secondly, although it is in the draft agenda, I do not know whether you have received a second, a draft law on taking office as a member of the BiH presidency during the term of office, I must say that the Constitutional Commission has been considering a possible proposal for such a item of the agenda and has determined the following. At this point, there's no such bill and we've simply taken that point off the agenda. I would like to ask the chairman of this House if there is a draft law on the taking over of the BiH presidency during the term of office, because that law, which has been sent to us in the parliamentary procedure, relied on the provisions of the law that the Constitutional Court of BiH later declared unconstitutional, therefore it cannot be a basis for discussion at all, that is, therefore, the item of the agenda, which, in my view, must be removed or we must be given an explanation whether there is any law, or a draft law, which is sent to parliament. 13 As regards the draft law on the Ombudsman of BiH, I must say that the Constitutional Commission has taken the view that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH and that Parliament will declare that it will be discussed, whether at today's session, or in the way Mr Banjac said, it will wait for the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH to be held. I can tell you my position, that I don't think that this procedure should be stopped, since the new Council of Ministers of BiH will have many more jobs, will be able to plead on the Ombudsmen Act if it passes today's first phase of the procedure, so draft law. Nothing bothers us to postpone the agenda by waiting for the Council of Ministers of BiH, which we do not have at the moment. As regards the draft law of MPs, Mr. Haris Silajdžić, who are listed here from 6th to 12th point, it is the law of interstate and inter-entity communication, on interstate and inter-entity rail transport, on financing of railway infrastructure. on the basis of safety of rail transport, transport contracts, rail transport and inland maritime navigation. The Constitutional Commission considered these draft laws and, after a rather interesting, somewhat heated debate, found most of the votes, 3 per to one, with one abstention, that there was a constitutional basis for considering these laws. In that respect, if necessary, I can give, of course, additional explanations. As a representative, I believe that five years after Dejton and after an explicit constitutional basis for the adoption of these laws, and after the fact that it is quite clear that Mr Silajdžić formally referred these laws to the parliamentary procedure a year ago, there is no reason why the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is today delaying the review of these laws, awaiting now the statement of this new Council of Ministers, it is the draft laws and it is worth the same reasoning as the draft law on the Ombudsman. I believe and support the view that this should be on the agenda today and that the House of Representatives should be declared and that the Council of Ministers of BiH will have the opportunity to declare the law by the next phase of its decision, i.e. until the next phase of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5710	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I fully support the proposal of the President of the Constitutional Commission and ask that the agenda points be respected until the end. We have exactly how much time we're working, from 11 to 6, and we don't know how much time it's going to take our first and second points. Therefore, I see no reason to take down the points the College has proposed for this agenda. There is no reason for us to end this agenda now and that we should accept in full, and if we do not reach all the points of the agenda, we can extend the work tomorrow, but I do not agree that it should be removed from the agenda, I support Mr Kadić's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5711	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5712	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind some MPs who are here today, first of all, about those laws that have been removed from the agenda last time, that it is not exactly an instruction that after seven days or after 15 days, what, what, 14 does not matter at all, we have been discussing these same laws for more than half an hour. I would point out that the reasons why these laws are being removed from that session were clearly stated last time. None of these reasons have been eliminated so far, none, not when it comes to the Law on Sports, nor about the Law on the Red Cross, none of the reasons why we took it down last time was even considered, let alone resolved. So, indeed, keep that in mind and let our work be more effective between the congregations, that we deliver our attitudes from the congregation to those institutions that are competent to answer the questions that we have asked here, and we have not received answers to them. That's why, here, I'm personally not ready to talk about these laws today. I went too far here to point out one item of the agenda, for which I would ask for your understanding and rescheduling, perhaps even for a longer period of time. It is the intended 13th item of the agenda Giving consent to ratification of the State Border Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you that this agreement was signed somewhere in July last year, here, almost an anniversary of the signing of that contract. After that, two commissions, the Commission of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Commission made one agreement. The agreement is called the Agreement on Priorities on the implementation of a state border contract between the Republic of Croatia and BiH and that point, so that I do not bother you now, what was to be resolved under the agreement. It was supposed to be resolved by the end of '99. A year. In the meantime, we were interested in the fate of this agreement and we received information from the RS government that none of these points provided for in this agreement were resolved. It is therefore my proposal to remove this too from the agenda, to refer the request to the commissions, and to one and the other commission, that these questions that they have defined themselves, that it is necessary to resolve before the ratification of the Treaty, to resolve these issues or to inform us of the reasons why these issues are not resolved. If last year's contract was signed in July and the deadline for these issues to be resolved by the end of the year, then perhaps, according to some logic, we could say today, here, we give these two commissions a deadline by the end of 2000 to solve these issues, and then consider the ratification of this agreement, but I will accept that this deadline be shorter, if you suggest it be shorter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5713	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, the College of the House of Representatives has an obligation to determine whether all the necessary assumptions have been met that a certain point should be placed on the agenda. We did it this time, and we proposed to the House of Representatives a agenda with points that were met with the assumption that they were being considered. I remind you that the House of Representatives has its Interim Rules of Procedure and has a number of conclusions that regulate this procedure or parts of the procedure and which provides that certain projects, certain legislative initiatives, will be considered by the House of Representatives and in case the Council of Ministers of BiH does not give its position on certain initiatives within a certain time. All the laws that are now in the form of the draft proposed for this agenda, as well as the Law on the Ombudsman, because of its exceptional importance and urgency, have all the conjecture to consider at the House of Representatives. 15 So whether they will be on the agenda today depends on the political will of the messengers present. Please keep that in mind. It is desirable for the BiH Council of Ministers to give its court, but on this occasion, given that the draft laws are in place, it is quite certain that the BiH Council of Ministers will have the opportunity to give its own court both on the suggestions of MPs and on the drafts that at the moment the drafts are translated into form of the proposal. I suggest that the House of Representatives does not use opportunities for the absence or constitution of certain institutions to delay problems, but rather that the House of Representatives, in a situation where there are assumptions that it solves problems, also shows the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5714	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? If not, I call on the Secretariat, in 10 minutes, you will have your proposals that we will plead and hope to adopt, finally, the agenda and act on it. Ten minutes break. Gentlemen, let's continue with the work of the House of Representatives. [[PAUZA]] We've exhausted the debate on the agenda, so may I have your attention? The first draft agenda will also be a proposal from the College, which is the agenda you already have before you, except for point 4. We're just skipping point 4. A draft law on taking office as a member of the BiH presidency during the term of office. All other points are part of the agenda and that is the proposal under number 1. Please, who's in favour of this proposal? No point 4. Do we? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Out of the 29 present, a total of 15 voted in favour, 8 MPs voted against. The Federation of BiH 14 voted in favour, RS 2 voted 2. Therefore, this proposal has not been passed. The second proposal will be to go point by point according to this agenda as we have, and then we will propose Members' proposals, including here. Under point 1. Proposal for agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 21st and 22nd session of the House of Representatives who's in favour? Of the 29 present – 26 voted in favour. So that's where we have the entity majority. Any objections to this vote? Thank you very much. Point one has been adopted. 2. The constitution of the BiH Council of Ministers is izvoljeti, Kadić, but I only ask that we bring the vote to an end. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5715	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, point 2. The establishment of the BiH Council of Ministers is a point that has not been prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no document at this time that MPs of the House of Representatives have so that they can declare themselves on the agenda point. That's why I'd say, I'm going to use a little rough term "storage" to accept the agenda point, and we don't know what's behind it. There is nothing that MPs have on the basis of which they can plead for or against this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5716	Respecting what we've heard now, we can plead for or against this point. We can do it this time, if you're in, and if you're not...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5717	Tokik, just smile, to make you look better. So why not, I like happy people, Mr. Chairman. We from the College are divided material and, Mr. Pero, at this point we have to, Rasime, I was going to say that you're right and I don't know, I've turned to the Secretary of the House now and ask why it's not divided? He says it's said. I don't know who said you didn't share. It's a misunderstanding. I ask that the service, I do not consider, gentlemen, at all my fault that the material is not divided. He was at our table and I suggest we take a break of 10 minutes, 15, to share the material. He's got material. People won't accept, they have the right to react like this. Please, we can't go through with this. If people are looking to take a point off the agenda because no proposal has been delivered, then they have a right. It takes us five minutes to multiply and divide this. Why isn't that shared?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5718	Please, can we compromise a solution? Let's go make a statement about the following points, and by then you'll have this material on the table. Is that okay with you? Here, assuming we agree, Mr. Banjac, I ask the Secretariat to multiply these materials and deliver to the table as soon as possible, and we go to point 3. 3. The programme of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for 2000. Now it's the moon that is, but, here, we have... Who's up for number three? From the present 29 - 24 for you. So we have both the entity and the common majority. Thank you very much. Point four, we said we were taking it off the agenda. Point 5. Draft Law on the Ombudsman of BiH, Proposer, MP Edhem Bičakčić Who is to be the item of the agenda? Who's against it? I'm asking everyone. 17 From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? The results of the vote, of the 29 present 20, voted in favour – 8 against total. From the Federation of BiH 18 for, from RS 2 for. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go past. Point 6. Draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, legislators Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović, who is for this agenda point? Of the 29 present 27 for. Therefore, this item of the agenda has been adopted both entityically and in any other way. Seven. Draft law on interstate and inter-entity communications Who's in favour? Who's against it, I ask everything? Entity statement. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 30 present – 20 votes for – 9 against total. From the Federation of BiH 17 for – from RS 2 for. Neither did this item of the agenda get the required majority. 8. Draft law on interstate and inter-entity rail transport Who's in favour? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? From the RS, I ask who's in favor? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Of the 30 present – 20 voted in favour – from the Federation of BiH 16 for – from RS 2 for. So this proposal didn't go through either. This agenda doesn't go away. Nine. A draft law on financing railway infrastructure I'm asking all of you, who's in favour? I'm asking everyone who's against you, point nine is up. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of 32 present – 17 overall for – 9 against. From the Federation of BiH 17 for – from RS 2 votes to. Therefore, this item of the agenda is not included in the final agenda either. Ten. A draft law on the basis of the safety of rail transport who's in favour? Who's against it, I ask everything? Thank you very much. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present 20 votes to – 9 against. From Federation of BiH 17 for and from RS 2 for. Therefore, the 10th item of the proposed agenda has not been adopted either. 1811. Draft law on contracts and transport of rail transport Who's in favour, ask all of you? Thank you. I'm asking everyone, who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present, 18 for – 9 against. By entities, from the Federation of BiH 15 for – from RS 2 for. The 11th item of the agenda has not passed either. 12. A draft law on internal and maritime navigation, please, who's in, asking everything? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present, 19 voted in favour – 9 against. The Federation of BiH 16 voted in favour – RS 2 in favour. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not receive a passing grade either. 13. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on the State Border between BiH and the Republic of Croatia I ask you all, who is for? I'm asking everyone, who's against it? Results of the vote, from 32 present – 26 for. So we have both the entity and every other majority. Therefore, this item of the agenda passed as a proposal for a point. We're moving on to a statement on your proposals. If the material, meanwhile, is divided by point two, is that okay, Branka? We have a second point that we skipped, hoping you got the materials in the meantime. 2. Constituting the Council of Ministers of BiH I ask you all, who's in favour?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5719	Just one question, since Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak is here, is that all the material we got today? We got a page on these people's names.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5720	Say it at the next point. Please, during the vote, don't contact me for the intervention. Who's in? Who's against it? 19 Of 32 present – 22 is for. Therefore, this item of the agenda is included in the agenda. We have your suggestions now. The secretariat tried to sort them out the way you suggested. May I have your attention, please? Mr. Sejfudin Tokić requests that the draft law on sports, legislators and delegates Tokić, Divković, Lozančić, Herceg and Ristić be placed on the agenda. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you very much. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? This item of the agenda, the results of the vote – 32 present – 17 for – against 10. From Federation of BiH 14 for and from RS 2 votes in favour. Therefore, this item of the agenda has not been adopted. Ibrahim Spahić proposes to include the Red Cross/Crist Bill on the agenda of this session, demanding that MPs be made known on this individual basis. He's right about that. I ask the secretariat to do this technically, this individual statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5721	The Federation of BiH Alagić Raifa – for Bičakčić Edhem – is not there Karić Raščić – for Čaršimamović Tarik – there is no Kulović Hamdija – there is no Filipović Mediha – for Genjac Halid – for Jahić Adnan – for Kadić Rasim – for Neimarli Hilmo – for Špirić Nikola – nothing for Pamuk Mustafa – for Silajdžić Haris – there is Spahić Ibrahim – for Lagumdžija Zlatko – there is no Mijatovićć Ivo – for Divković Ivo – for Bogić Bogičević – for Vito Sejfudin – for Đedović Ibrahim – for Dokić Desanka – against Zovko Ljubomir – there is no Jovanović Rađević – against Skopljak Pero – against Rakić Bošnjak Milenko – against 20 Baković Mirko – against Lozančić Ivo Smail against Jadić – against Jadić Bečirbašić against Dragko – against Mirković Zakjko Dragan against Mirko – not against Mirko – against Banjac – against Mirko Mara against Deretić – against Perkanović Zak
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5722	Let's see the results. The results of the vote. From the Federation of BiH 15 for – 5 against. Of all RS and the Federation of BiH – 17 for – 15 against. From RS 2 it was for – 10 it was against. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go past. Mr Spahić's second proposal also suggested that the House be made known on the 24th session agenda, which is scheduled for 4 July, a debate on BiH's economic and social policy. You didn't ask for an individual statement here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5723	Honored representatives, when the agenda of this session is established, that we cannot determine the agenda of the 24th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5724	Please make that clear. Here, Mr Spahić withdraws his proposal, we will agree and hope to find a compromise solution. Mr. Mirko Banjac has suggested that the draft laws under points 5 to 12 be removed from the agenda, besides, we pleaded, therefore, this item of the agenda is not even...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5725	I was just asking him to postpone, not take off. Put it down and take it off, that's different stuff. I ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH be made known about this so that we may have it. I'm not asking the point to get off the agenda, that's a big difference. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5726	You didn't let me say that sentence to the end, and the BiH Council of Ministers delivered its opinion within 7 days. Please state who is in favour of this proposal, so that points 5 to 12 can be prolonged.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5727	You have the right to seek, you are wrong, read the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, and do not play here with this home, and you can joke at home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5728	Who, for this proposal, is Mr Mirko Banjac, who you have heard, as it is written here, that from the agenda, please listen to the whole sentence, temporarily postpone the drafts of the law under paragraphs 5 to 12, points 5 to 12 and that the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers its opinion to the House within 7 days. Who agrees with this? Then we're in conflict with what we've already voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5729	We didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5730	I think that's what we said at the individual agenda points. Mirko, can you agree?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5731	No, you do what you want, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5732	Well, I wouldn't want to do what I want. I'd like to work as well as I can. I think we've been making statements about each point individually, including this from 5th to 12th. So I think that's what we said about this, if that's okay with you, Mirko, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5733	Gentlemen, I'm extremely sorry, I don't know what's going on here, but obviously, there are either those who haven't listened enough or there are those who don't know enough. Based on what I've brought here, the conclusion should be adopted to draft the law, you say, Mr. Tokić. 22 Sir, I'm right. Why don't you read the Rules of Procedure? You've got so much time here to knock nonsense, I guess you'll have time to read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5734	I'm not the one for insulting anyone. I'm asking you to be...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5735	He's laughing, so he didn't mean it. Please, just let me tell you. I asked for the draft laws set out in items 5 to 12 of the agenda, instructions to the BiH Council of Ministers for a statement, so that we can declare these points at the next session, which is my conclusion, and what the service did not do, which is why I am not guilty. These aren't business initiatives, because this was on the agenda. I have the right to conclude, and you can do whatever you want. I ask you to read the Rules of Procedure and if you need the Constitutional Commission to plead on this issue. Do I have the right to this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5736	I believe he has the right, both as an MP and as a member of the College, but, please, would you please be willing to state who is in favour of accepting this proposal? Who's in? He's not asking for an individual vote. How much is present? Who's against it? I'm asking everyone. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's from RS for? Please, from the RS, once again who's in favor, raise your hands, we're having a little trouble counting. All as one. The vote on this conclusion, from 32 to 18, voted in favour – 5 voted against. From the Federation of BiH, 10 voted in favour of this conclusion, and all 12 MPs voted in favour of the RS. The plans proposed by Mr Mirko Banjac here are the draft law on interstate and inter-republic communications draft law on interstate and inter-entity rail transport 10. The draft law on the basis of the safety of railway transport The draft law on transport contracts for rail transport The draft law on internal and maritime navigation of the Ombudsman Act is clearly included here in point 9. The draft law on financing railway infrastructure, it's here under number nine. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5737	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I believe that this proposal violates the Interim Rules of Procedure and violates the conclusions on the procedure of the law, given that, apart from the powers of the legislator, the de facto laws have been removed from the procedure and are re-scheduled to the procedure for a period of 2-3 months, which violates the fundamental right of the official legislators of the law. At the same time, at the moment, I would like to ask you, as the Kolegijum, to which the Council of Ministers has been referred this proposal, given that at this time BiH does not have a Council of Ministers, without smiling, given that there is no need to prejudge the next item of the agenda and decision on the Council of Ministers. On the first conclusion, I would ask that the Constitutional Commission be declared because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5738	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirko Banjac has the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5739	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the answer is concerned, he's quite simple. The honourable gentleman does not know how to name a member of the law, for, of course, he did not even read it because he does not know it, because it does not exist. The other thing, he doesn't know that we adopted the Permanent Rules of Procedure and it's one mistake. The other thing, both in one and the other, let the member, of course he can't point him out. As far as this second part is concerned, we have asked for the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH says which ministries will function until the election of new ones. This is about the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, because it's from that jurisdiction and has a ministry to plead. Of course some would like to have no Council of Ministers, but unfortunately there are such, and to their joy, they will probably conclude themselves. There's someone to direct and there's someone to get an opinion from, of course, if you want an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5740	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs - MPs, I do not find this issue crucial, but I believe that so much before this assembly and this state of BiH, finally, for this speaker, must have responsible people. I called on the Interim Rules of Procedure and one single conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Representatives, brought on the law-making procedure. Mr. Banjac's inconsistency goes to that level that I initially asked which rules of procedure we are working on, since I know that the Kolegijum, especially Mr. Banjac, is treating the hour in one way, the hour in another way, you have answered me on behalf of the College that we are working on the Interim Rules of Procedure. It's unserious of Mr. Banjac to teach here how it's different in the Rules of Procedure. We are working under the Interim Rules of Procedure and 24 I am asking the Constitutional Commission to make clear on this conclusion, from the aspect of the Interim Rules of Procedure and the conclusion of the procedure, since I believe that the right of the legislator of the law has been violated, because these drafts of the law have been thrown out of the procedure and re-directed to the BiH Council of Ministers and have been available to the BiH Council for more than a year. About who knows, who doesn't know, as far as I'm concerned, here quite clearly, you know, Mr. Banjac, your political position and you know your role in Parliament, but what I would ask you to do, chairing, since Banjac obviously intends to replicate in a very harsh way, when Mr. Banjac tells someone it's nonsense, don't let it stop. I, just for the sake of a clear language that Banjac only understands, will say: what Banjac just said is pure nonsense.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5741	I'm sorry about the conversation this way. Mr. Mirko Banjac, go ahead. I'm not a boxer. I don't know any other way than to ask you not to insult each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5742	Well, I'm not mad at Mr. Tokić, because I'd be just like him if I were angry. I don't watch what was said first, I watch who said it at the same time. So, I'm not mad at you, Mr. Tokić, I know, but what you said you didn't know, you said that, I didn't say that, and I believe you know whether or not you know, so don't be angry. The other thing, you, sir, don't know anything about anything if you won't mention SDS or Mirko Banjac, etc. That's your weakness. I know you must have matter. You wouldn't be photographed here or televised if you weren't talking about it, and what I know, in the subconscious, you'd wish you were like me but you weren't and that's your subconscious wish. You don't know, sir, what I can do, but if I were mad at you, I wouldn't think of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5743	Thank you very much, here we have a comic part of the session, but no more verbal duels. Mr. Kadić, you've come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5744	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I will spoil your pleasure in the last few minutes, and I am particularly sorry that I am unable to maintain this tension of Parliament's session, but I will say something first as President of the Constitutional Commission, I will call on the Constitutional Commission, if the dom asks me to do so as chairman, to declare something, in this particular case, we can plead, but we do not have to today, since it is certainly the matter of which the dom has declared itself, so the Constitutional Commission's decision can only be a decision for a future time. However, as a representative in this home, I am very clear in my first reporting said. The laws we had here on the agenda of MPs, 25 Mr. Haris Silajdžić, were sent to parliamentary procedure a year ago. Meanwhile, they were at a statement in the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers did not give their own court on them, according to a conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives. Today's vote to send it, at this point, to the non-existent Council of Ministers, is to tear down the conclusion of the House of Representatives by the same House of Representatives. We voted to eliminate the conclusion that we adopted as a rule of conduct for cases like this. I don't see it any different than making it impossible for BiH institutions to function. In this case, when it comes to communication and transport, I'll tell you one paradoxical case. In last session of the House of Representatives, this house ratified the BiH-R. Croatia agreement on interstate rail transport. The agreement was ratified although there is no law by the BiH Parliament that gives the BiH presidency the right to ratify the agreement. Of course, there's not one. We cannot always replace the lack of legal regulation with agreements and decisions of the BiH presidency. I see the delay in putting on the agenda of this law by Mr Silajdžić as one wish, the political desire to prolong and endlessly delay the story of the need to be legally, which is the exclusive right of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, regulates the issue of international, interstate and inter-entity transport, that is, communication in the broadest sense of that word, but I have made it clear that I have spoken, and dom has made it clear that we can't go back, but it was necessary for me to say this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5745	Thank you very much. We've made our point on this point. I hope we're going to the agenda and finally do this part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5746	Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I really didn't think I was answering about this item on the agenda, but there really are things that don't make sense to me. Did we just, when we voted, make a harmful and unconstitutional conclusion, that's very important. Another thing, is there anything wrong with Parliament asking the Council of Ministers to declare any legal project. This is by chance about the legal projects of Mr Silajdžić, who was formerly president of the Council of Ministers, and did not find it appropriate to push his proposal through the Council of Ministers, to get a positive or negative opinion. So, to discuss this proposal. Why it took a year for us to get it as MPs, and that the BiH Council of Ministers did not open the debate and say yes, we have a harmonised view of this law, etc. That's all we're asking, I assume Mr. Banjac is asking for quality new access to legal projects. The second thing is, it is not good for this Parliament to spend two hours on procedural gaps, and that the debate on legal projects takes us five minutes. I don't think it's a bad conclusion. I think he's useful. I beg you, it is, of course, not only about you, it applies to me, it is time to get serious about 26 of these things. Is there anything more logical than for the Representative Council to trust the Council of Ministers of BiH and ask him to see it. Whether they will give it in seven days, 15-20 depends on their responsibility to BiH as a state. They must all be serious. Now, in that sense, I think that we've entered a needless conclusion, it would be good for the Constitutional Commission to see more important things that are on the agenda today, but it doesn't have a quorum. We came yesterday, invited, and there are no people, with honorary exceptions from the President of the Commission and a few people who regularly come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5747	Thank you very much. Mrs Filipović, I would ask you to, however, finally declare the agenda, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5748	These laws have been put on the agenda multiple times and every time I take off and I can't help but think it's intentional. So just give me two minutes to read one statement. At the moment, there is no legal regulation in the areas covered by the draft laws under discussion today, which would be practically applied in BiH space. BiH, as a sovereign state, is a carrier of international subjectivity and is obliged to meet the accepted international conventions and agreements concerning international transport. BiH is a member of several international organisations in the area of rail transport, which obliges it to carry out legal obligations throughout BiH. The signed documents relating to Corridor 5-C also require a unique approach to international organisations and other countries. The competencies of BiH institutions are clearly laid down in the BiH Constitution, which is also stated in the explanation of each of the draft laws in question. There are numerous difficulties in the functioning of international transport, when there is no adequate legislation that would prescribe appropriate legal standards, which would allow the operation of transport companies, regulate relations regarding joint communications and allow citizens to exercise their rights in their country and in the relevant institutions in BiH, which is particularly related to maritime navigation. As BiH institutions' competences, and in inter-entity transport and communication, these are also covered by draft laws relating to the area. We appreciate that it is high time to approach the adoption of these laws, which are only part of this regulation in the field of transport and communication, which must be regulated at the state level. 27 We hope that, through this start, activities in the legal arrangement of transport and communication relations will create an appropriate environment for this issue to be settled in the whole area in the coming period. I'm really uncomfortablely surprised by the vote in the light of the draft laws relating to transport and communication.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5749	It is the will of those chosen, so please... Mr. Dokić. I'm asking you not to answer any more debates, to declare the agenda, and then we'll have a chance to talk on the points and...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5750	Chairman, I ask you to take the session into your own hands, that after the vote we do not hold the debate, I beg you, that's why I went out and, here, I will cut short, I am no longer ready to sit in a session where we debate so much after the vote, but I only have two sentences to say. It is truly inappropriate that the laws of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, if they were delivered a year ago, I do not remember what it is, whether it is eight months or a year, and we have always asked the Council of Ministers' opinion, that this same Council of Ministers did not come out with any opinion. Here we can set a deadline for the new ministerial council, hopefully we'll have it today or in 15 days, anyway, to give an opinion, positively or negatively, and I'm no longer ready for this... Thank you very much, Mr. Dokić, I agree with this debate, and I take part of the responsibility in running the session. Please, I now have Mr Abdurahman Malkić's proposals here, which suggest that road traffic laws be included in the agenda, proposed by MP Haris Silajdžić, which are the draft laws on interstate - inter-entity road transport on the basis of road safety on the state roads of BiH I hope that I interpreted your conclusion correctly. Therefore, I am voting on this proposal. Who's in, asking everything? This normally goes as an initiative, and even these laws can't... Who's against you, I'm asking all of you? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 31 present – 18 was overall for, it was against 12. The Federation of BiH 16 was in favour – RS 2 was in favour. Therefore, this proposal has not been passed. 28 Mr. Rasim Kadić, I, however, will present this, many things have already been repeated, we have already finished them, he suggested that we make a statement on the proposals to include in the agenda the draft law on sports and the draft law on the Red Cross. I think they've already come to terms with this. So, Mr. Kadić, are you satisfied? Okay. Another proposal, I think, is already decided, if you agree, Mr Branko Dokić, to remove point 13. Giving consent, we've already made that clear. Mr. Dokić, are you satisfied? This item was considered and remained on the agenda. Thank you very much. While the Secretariat prepares the correct agenda, you have it written on your benches, I suggest we move to the first item of the agenda, which we adopted, which is Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 21st and 22nd sessions until then I hope that we will have the agenda in writing, the final agenda. Here's a proposal to give a break for lunch an hour. She's getting adopted. Lunch break. Half an hour's lunch break, please. You can have lunch in half an hour. We have a break, we continue the session where we left off, and we haven't gone far. The agenda has been adopted. 1. The adoption of the minutes from 21st and 22nd session of the PSBiH House of Representatives 2. Establishment of the BiH Council of Ministers 3. Work programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for 2000. 4. Draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, proposed by Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović 5. Giving consent to ratification of the State Border Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia and 6. Answers to MPs' questions and questions, Ad. 1. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the record? Can we adopt the record? Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 26 present – 22 is for. I don't think we have any need to carry out any further voting procedures. We're done with the first item of the agenda. We're moving on to point two. 29 Ad. 2. Constituting the Council of Ministers of BiH Please, our Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Prof. Dr. A Tuševljaka to refer and make a proposal, his vision of the work of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5752	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure and honor to welcome you and ask for confidence in the foundations of our programme, as well as the composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which will participate in its implementation, working with you and with all relevant factors in BiH and the international community. We will seek to base this cooperation on trust, positive energy and good intentions for others, as well as for ourselves, for the benefit of our families, our children and all the citizens and peoples in BiH. Our work in the coming period will focus on further affirmation of the Dayton Peace Agreement behind which the largest countries of the modern world and the entire international community with significant infrastructure and all relevant institutions have stood. In this regard, we will do everything possible to implement all the documents in BiH within our competences, including the 2000 Peace Implementation Council Declaration from Brussels. In this context, we particularly apostrophe the need to speed up the activity of refugees and displaced persons, on the principles given in Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. It is unacceptable that nearly five years after the end of the war, we have collective accommodations in both entities, with a tendency, as it is done, to remain in office. Economic development and property laws, and thus the right to work and property, must be the basis for resolving this issue. Refugees and displaced persons must be provided with the right and opportunity to dispose of their property and to choose a place to live and work. We are starting with a solution established by the Dayton Peace Agreement, and we believe that this is a framework which, under certain circumstances, gives enough space for everyone and hope for the future, if each one within his jurisdiction, is responsible and committed to doing his part of the job. The intentions that would guide anyone from the sphere of jurisdiction and responsibility defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution are not good for anyone in BiH, because they paralyze institutions, derivate laws and threaten people. We therefore believe that at this stage, priority should be given to those issues which our energy, potential and attention distance from large topics and planetary ideas and turn it towards resolving those issues that make life of citizens better and more content today and tomorrow. It is high time for people and peoples in BiH to come out of the thought, ideological and national maze and illusions, confusion and controversy, which make the present and the future uncertain and uncertain for each and every one of us together. It's time for universal and civilizational norms and standards to become the meaning and performance of our daily life and our reality. This will allow us to build institutions transparent institutions in developed countries of democracy, free market and human rights, which will speed up BiH's accession to the European and other integrations of the world's most developed countries. These criteria and standards, 30 need right here, not as mere verbalism, but as an operational idea and performance, which will not be in the interest of those circles that find their strength in suspense, fear, ideological and thought confusion, which confuses and demotive people, but will be in the interest of all the peoples of BiH and all the well-intentioned people. We need to do everything in our power and what depends on us, to create a thought, political and economic environment, which will free people's creative energy and ensure the valorisation of the potentials that we have and which are not small. Since the state legal structure of BiH is defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, we must, as legalists and as politically responsible people, accept these solutions, not as temporary, but as the best choice and solution in the given circumstances. So we intend to target our energy, not to cause new or old political turbulence and chaos, but to profile changes in all those areas where they are possible and desirable, such as moving better and more pleasant lives in BiH. The cornerstone of any serious work is the establishment and functioning of the rule of law, which is a starting assumption for the implementation of our programme. The basis of our programme is four large E. Evolution, Europe, Economics, Ecology. Evolution. It's going slowly to BiH. In the spirit of that saying, which sometimes depicted something more than our reality, all mechanisms that relativise the opposites of our traditions, religions, cultures and interests should be further developed. The evolutionary way to build a common roof will make that roof safe enough, comfortable enough and acceptable enough for everyone. It will free peoples and entities in BiH from all irrational stress and frustrations of threat, majorisation or marginalisation. Europe. Europe and the idea of BiH in Europe are not new and unfulfilled. The idea is in the interest of citizens, constituent peoples and entities in BiH. BiH is currently part of Europe, mainly geographically and in the sense of good services that we receive from European peoples and their institutions. Our goal and our intentions are to build a political, economic and social environment, transparent? The European Union and to strengthen our prospects for EU accession. We think that all the responsible factors in our country understand that without real reforms in the legal, economic, tax and social system, there is no assumption of those forms of co-operation that allow our people and our economies the modes of co-operation and success that they deserve by their performances. We must influence our efforts to remove all barriers in every way that BiH, within the shortest time, will be in a position to actively participate in all European integrations and jobs. On the other hand, we expect further comprehensive assistance and co-operation in education, adapting structures to such needs, which will also require significant financial investment in the coming period. The economy. The economy is the basic task and direction of our engagement in the coming period. The main priorities of this effort will be seen in our determination to do the following, inventory of initiatives launched and analysis of results. Development priorities for the launch and dynamicization of horses? financial sector, energy, traffic, 31 farms. Privatisation and related adjustments, co-operation with RS governments and the Federation of BiH to co-ordinate strategic projects, harmonising the economic, system environment and other issues of common interest. Employment and reform problems. Union regulation in the spirit of the best Western European traditions. Ecology. Ecology is a matter of special interest to BiH and those who marginalise the issue in these circumstances, do not look to the future with a desirable vision, nor the present with a critical view that this issue deserves. Our idea is to define a consistent environmental policy, which in the future will make it easier for us to adapt the economic structure and offer as a whole and build standards that new circumstances bring. Dear Members of Parliament, our primary goal is to launch some new initiatives that will give people more space to deal with their lives, in the way that suits them most. That hot political topics, to a greater extent, replace thoughts about better work, profits, smaller taxes, love and hobbies, with the hope that such a way of thinking is desirable here, but also such a way of life can be achieved. I address you, honourable MPs, with the belief that you will vote in our confidence. We will make every effort to justify your trust. It's this approach framework, the concept of our programme that should be realized according to our plan that we're going to make, of course, in the next period. The composition of the Council of Ministers which I now appoint to you, of course, and to read and some details to tell you. On the basis of Article 5(4), point (b) is replaced by the following: The Constitution of BiH and Article 6, Paragraph 4. The law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH ministries, I appoint ministers and deputy ministers to the Council of Ministers of BiH. The BiH Treasury Ministry. I'm going to run this department myself and my associates should be Anton Ril, as Deputy Minister and Fatima Leho, also as Deputy Minister. I will now give you the structure of all ministries, without giving details from your biography, the biography of these people you have obtained in materials and in addition here. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. Mr. Crescent. Tihomir Gligorić, Minister, Nudžeim Rečica, Deputy Minister and Valentin Ćorić Deputy Minister. The Foreign Ministry. Dr. Crescent. Jadranko Prlić, Minister Mladen Bosić, Deputy Minister and Husein Živalj, Deputy Minister. The Ministry of European Integration. Dr. Crescent. Bisera Turković, minister, Lidija Topić, deputy minister and Milovan Blagojević, deputy minister. Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Affairs. Mr Mirsad Kurtović, Minister, Mr Mićo Vuković, Deputy Minister and Mr Velimir Lovrić, Deputy Minister. 32 The Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Mr. Martin Raguž, Minister, Mr. Fadil Haverić, Deputy Minister and Mr. Dr. Nikola Špirić, deputy minister. I ask you gentlemen, in accordance with the law and with your conviction, to confirm this structure of the Council of Ministers of BiH. You know all the circumstances in which there's been a lot of work done here. I would not further detail, you know, the state of work, the state of administration, of course, that all these questions will be the subject of our awake attention and, of course, we will make every effort to make a functional and efficient administration, in the spirit of these principles of our approach to this business, as I was saying. I wouldn't detail it now, of course, and I wouldn't draw your attention to these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5753	Thank you very much. Any questions directly to the prime minister? It would be very correct, in my opinion, that a team of people who are our prime minister, whom we have also confirmed on this body, we also adopt that, in my opinion, as he suggested. Any other approach, I believe, would question and what we have declared for this man who has now referred to us and shown us the simple sighting of his work. That's why I don't feel like I'm going to be wrong about the Rules of Procedure or your wish or your will to declare to me this team of people who proposed our mandate in the package. So I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5754	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, allow me, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, to present the views regarding the presentation and formation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as the procedure has taken place so far. The SDP is concerned with the fact that the new Council of Ministers is forming on the old political concept and on the principles on which BiH has stagnated and fell into the biggest crisis in its current history today, as a country, is on the margins of European integration, in line with the poorest countries on the European continent. When I talk about the concept, I am talking about the same political parties, the same way of forming the Ministerial Council, the Government of BiH, in which programming, the entire programme of government performance, unfortunately, has not been adopted to this day. If we look at today's situation, in which BiH is, I will repeat, at the bottom, both in economic and political and in every other sense of the European scale, it is truly amazing that today's chairman of the Council of Ministers recommends that we move slowly. I don't know what that slow exit from the economic crisis still thinks hundreds of thousands of refugees and exiles, what hundreds of thousands of unemployed, pensioners and socially endangered people think, and I don't know why BiH needs a policy of easy stagnation and stopping the status quo today. There is only one explanation, to maintain existing political relations and to keep the current political monopoly, both in the economy and in politics, from the existing ruling political structures. 33 We do not believe that the other E, in Europe, will introduce us, those political forces and political parties, which are here in this House, and some of them are also proposed by the new Council of Ministers, to vote for elemental functions, against the essential functions of the BiH state and fundamental human rights. I will only quote: border police, a unique passport, so what I do not mention today is the rights of athletes to participate in international competitions on behalf of the recognised BiH, the formation of the Red Cross, the formation of the judiciary and a whole series of institutions that all European countries have. Let me take an ironic note, but today the road has been slow to begin with. Initiatives in this area, a dozen laws, have been extended and given further consideration, despite the fact that they have been in parliamentary procedure for several months and some for several years. We do not believe that this concept of government and such a Council of Ministers will be able to bring BiH closer to European integration. We are openly warning that, in this way, the formed Council of Ministers, of the political forces that have worked very hard on this, will not solve the problems that we have mentioned in the area of the economy, which are mentioned in the presentation of Mr Tuševljak, related to traffic, today we have attended the blocking of the legislation on traffic in BiH, energy, etc. We received the last-minute biography of people entering the BiH Council of Ministers. Our remarks are of principled nature and have no personal characteristics and we will vote against, not because of the individual people who are listed here, but let me comment on some of the solutions we have. Two sessions ago, when asked why we can't discuss Mr Gligorić's candidacy, I think that's what the future minister in the government of Mr Tuševljak, we were told by the chairman, because the assessment of the BiH presidency is that he is not an adequate person and does not guarantee co-operation with international institutions in BiH. The logical question remains how the same staff solution for the Minister at the Minister's Council, and remains the same for all those who follow, records the absurdities from this high house, to record that in the biography of Mr. Tuševljak, Mr. Gligorić said he has shown up to a high degree of co-operation with international institutions and that this is his best feature. Those who still have the old newspaper and still remember December '90. in the year, Mr Tuševljak's presentation, approach, the assignment of biography of future ministers, promises in Europe, which did not have a deep, essential, content, programme component, will remind of the presentation of Jure Pelivan, the first mandater from the concept of the SDA, SDS and HDZ authorities. That's when we were promised Europe. Some ran to the pay phone and spoke not to Europe, but to Switzerland, Hong Kong, and it happened that over half of BiH went to Europe as refugees, precisely thanks to the action of the political concept. I have no doubt, from everything that's been going on, and also from what we said in the chairman's appointment, that some of them have a lot of interest in repeating the '90s. A year. I want to say here in front of you MPs, but also in front of the whole Bosnian Herzegovina public, they have those who are ready to repeat the trip from the '90s. The years are back on the same political path, but the SDP is strong enough not to allow that path to continue. I believe that many who voted for Krajišnik in the 1990s, Ostojić, after Dejton for the President of the Human Rights Commission, will vote for Špirić, a man of 34 who voted against all the laws in the field of human rights here as an MP, but that will be their responsibility and their political path. BiH, I'm convinced, gentlemen, will take a new path. Špirić is just an example of the personal composition of the Council of Ministers' political concept.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5755	Please, don't make a name for yourself. It's not right for me. Thank you very much. I was in prison at the time of Communism.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5756	I, of course, don't want to rephrase with the MPs out of courtesy and I'm glad, of course, that people here have different opinions and that's certainly good. My exposé is here, and I think it's better to read it carefully. He'll be here now and you'll get it now. Please give Mr. Tokić an exposé, as well as others who are interested, of course. I think the basics of the program are clearly exposed. The political picture of Parliament is what it is. It includes parties that participate and have their own programmes. We should respect each other, and I will try to contribute to a new climate of trust, raising and political culture to a higher level and way of communication between people in general. BiH is very much in need, and we all need it very much. As for speed, I think that in those parts of the programme, for which it is important, very clearly said, we need reforms right away, economic reforms immediately. As for political structures or reconstructions, I think these things should be done slowly. In BiH and here in my Sarajevo, if it does not offend anyone, so is my Sarajevo, but I will not enter into the polemics of that kind, but I say that my Sarajevo says hurry up – slowly. Everyone knows what that means, gentlemen. Let's not caricate things, and I've made it clear what it means to go slowly in BiH and to what it refers. For five years, it's been said here that the Dayton Agreement is not good and that it needs to be changed, and the realisation of the Dayton Agreement has been done by perhaps negligible few percent, if these things could be expressed in percentages, and people themselves have made a better climate without politicians. I don't give lessons to anyone, I apologize, I don't want to be rude, I don't give people lessons and political parties, of course, have their needs and their problems. It's not easy to solve problems here quickly. It's not easy to solve at all, but I think what we said was a good way to solve problems. I ask you to read carefully what we have said about this road and to plead, by your conviction and by your conscience, I do not engage. I'm just talking straight and clear about things, and that's how I'm gonna work here. So I suggest that, of course, I could explain every name and how it came to be in that place and that all compromises were made to win that team. If I was building a team for myself, privately, I'd probably make another team. I was building a situation team that we have here, gentlemen, that I found here. It's normal and it's reality, like in any policy that exists. It's our reality, and it's normal for some to get along with that team, and some don't. I'm asking you to go to work. Of course, I don't prejudge or draw attention, nor deny opportunities for those who want to discuss and who have to express their agreement or disagreement, but I think it's a good idea if we go here faster and more pragmatic ways. There may often be a scenario here to make a fuss, I don't think it's good. We've got problems to solve. I'm honestly saying that I'm 35 committed to this team to solve specific problems. How we're gonna do that, it's not just gonna depend on us. It will also depend on the climate in parliament, but also on other political factors in BiH. BiH is one complex state. Working in BiH institutions is not easy. It is not easy to achieve the result either, but I think that this result can be achieved and that the time has come to talk about concrete things and tasks. I'm here for that and until I see hope that it can be done and that there's something that can be achieved. When I lose that hope, I'll go. I still have hope, and I'm here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5757	Thank you very much, Mr. Tuševljak. However, I do believe that the prime minister has the right to expect us to confirm his proposal to the team.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5758	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tuševljak, I was, of course, just like the others, after talking to you, who you invited us to as representatives of the various political options in Parliament, expecting to receive a programme during which it is realistic. The term of office of this government, unless there are emergency situations under the Constitution, nor outside the constitutional ones, according to Dejton, with a partner called the international community, figureed out in the High Representative by November 11th, possibly working until the constitution of the new Council of Ministers and I, indeed, think that it is quite irresponsible, personal, and taking on the obligation to work in such conditions. That is why I would like, of course, to say that this, of course, applies to this Parliament as well, when it comes to the mandate and the obligations arising from the policy that BiH is to lead, so I have three questions. First, what the BiH Council of Ministers can do objectively by this period is priority to ensure the fundamentals of the functioning of BiH's constitutional institutions, while thinking of the BiH Council of Ministers, the ministries and, of course, the state parliament, both at home, who need to have a very clear programme, how many meetings, what meetings and what topics we can discuss, or which laws – we can accept and in some ways start economic reforms, which is the first-class goal. After I received, both in conversation with you and in the public, the impression that it was a person who defended his position, legalists and technocrats and experts along with it, I thought we could get an insight into the practical steps of the next five months or a little longer. In this regard, I would like to ask that, in this respect, if we adopt this programme of our Parliament today and it agrees with the Council of Ministers' programme, which we could, indeed, consider to be a consistent relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, that is the first thing I am interested in. Do we, in fact, know what we will do in the next five months as parliaments, as the Council of Ministers, and what purpose and purpose we have. Of course, the state institutions are functioning that is a priority, and I think it is indisputable to establish all the institutions that should be working on that basis. The second question, I didn't hear anything in your presentation about the relations between these state institutions, except the relationship to the two entity governments. I felt it would be important to hear exactly the attitude towards the BiH presidency and the BiH Parliament, since it is another step, since it is the first time such a composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, which should in some ways fill the many gaps we have had in the past five years in the work of this body. As for the internal plan and the action in the area of economic and social policy, I really underline the importance of an effective response to the problems that arise in the whole society, and when it comes to one general poverty and social problems of different categories of population. I would like to emphasise, as far as foreign interests are concerned, that I would like to hear your position, and, you know, an explanation regarding our position, your position, your thinking or the programme of the Council of Ministers, and you, as chairman, in relation to the Stability Pact in Southeast Europe and your neighbours, that is, the possibility of building a different situation regarding, of course, economic and social policies and security and all of those projects that are related to three round tables. In fact, it is my feeling that the Council of Ministers in this area has practically not played a clear role in this area so far. It would be important to move in the area efficiently and quickly, in order to integrate BiH into European flows. Another thing I'd like to know, on the foreign agenda, is the relationship to Euro-Atlantic integration and I would like to conclude this exhibition with two more points. On the inside, I believe that the Council of Ministers must appear as holder of the electoral law in BiH, drafts, proposals, etc. And that it must take that responsibility. I didn't understand why there's no relationship between the issues that will be on the agenda tomorrow for five months. The Council has in its jurisdiction the area, the area of legislation, has responsibility for this key law and cannot seem to exist, that there is no problem. There's a problem. In addition to the functioning of the system institutions, the electoral law is one of the key laws that we must work on. I don't think the BiH Council of Ministers can avoid that responsibility. Secondly, I do not think that the BiH Council of Ministers can avoid responsibility, in a statement by the chairman, is a problem for the public of work, the responsibility of officials and administrations, officials, authorities, or positions towards freedom of the press and the media. Today we are witnessing in BiH dramatic crafts precisely on issues of press freedom and the public and violations of the rights of journalists and media. I think that someone who comes forward to the BiH Parliament has reason and reason to establish their relationship against being a policy, which is a public and what is the purpose of an institution such as the BiH Council of Ministers. I would conclude with one feeling, that it is good to see, first of all, that they are nominated to the ministerial posts of women and to say, if nothing else, that is also some struggle of this Parliament and our colleagues and at all one world trend to propose women. It would be good if they were at least fitty-fifty, if not 80 to 20% in each body we choose. As for me personally and our positions, I have had the pleasure of now opening up some questions, the position of this council of ministers will each evaluate according to the results and to the possibilities in this framework, in this time available to 37 staff, but I believe that one question must be asked openly. We have one of the most catastrophic administrations in Europe and the world. Our administration is at the lowest level of development and action, and I think the BiH Council of Ministers has an agreement to regulate some rules concerning administration. The course of our session and the course of relations between the Council of Ministers and Parliament shows a tragic situation when it comes to the position and function of the administration. What's all the cause and reason, it's a minor problem, but I think it's necessary to clarify and take appropriate measures to determine this issue. All that I have said, I will also express in my vote, in a way that I will try to build a relationship in a very active opposition to what is an attempt not to lose the measure of things, but I must be quite precise, there is no trust without results and there is no trust without a clear programme, which is the point, which is the point and what is the pace and the hurry – slowly in Sarajevo... and the jumps in certain areas are not incomprehensible, it is processes in which we simply understand that there is no philosophy of life, neither in Sarajevo, nor in BiH, nor in Europe where others will wait for us to set our own pace. We do not define ourselves the rhythm of action, but rather determine it together at the beginning with a partner called OHR and other actors of the international community. Whether anyone in BiH has the ability to take responsibility for any area and clearly show it transparently, this could only be discussed when we see it. Therefore, this position is quite clear and the vote against does not mean disqualification, means the possibility of opening a serious process in BiH, according to what should change things in our country. The relationship I've raised with these questions is crucial to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5759	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5760	Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, these are occasions when large words are usually sought and through these big words they try to give great qualifications or disqualifications. It seems to me that we are more successful in disqualifying each other through those big words than we are able to give great qualifications of which we would benefit. This time I can't help but replicate my fellow Tokić from a party that, I have to be honest here, perhaps even the most sympathetic for the simple reason that my political platform of social democracy is very close and perhaps the closest. But for the truth's sake, I have to say that Dar overstepped and used this pay phone every time someone disqualified, I think she deserves, at the very least, a yellow card, if they didn't get any more yellow cards. This time, all MPs from one entity were disqualified, it is from the RS calling for some laws that did not put the vote in favour of the laws. Those who want BiH, a democratic BiH, would never use such qualifications, even if they were standing. He should be working on something else, in some other political way not to, and not in this way, deterring both what they might sometimes agree on. For the sake of truth, I must repeat here that these disagreements and rejections of these laws are precisely because of the fact that the party and the former chairman's party in this assembly in two years, i.e. in three and a half years, the most laws have come under the BiH Constitution or are not respected procedures required by the BiH Constitution. There are also some laws that we talked about today, as part of the adoption of the agenda, and which we talked about at the 38th meeting last time. This is a simple strangulation of the Assembly. Instead of looking for some, I agree, that we can't go slowly, there's a lot of things waiting for us here, but I didn't realize in the sense that things are slowing down here, but that things are being done more safely and more thoroughly, in this syntax is not only characteristic of Sarajevo, or BiH, but rather, Mr Spahić said, a Latin proverb, which has been in effect for several thousand years. There's nothing new about that. It's two thousand years, and more than two thousand years, proven and tried. We have on one side an initiative of a number of MPs or parties, which requires BiH to lead to absurdities, so when it all comes to absurdity, let's try something new to do and I think it's the wrong way. I would like to introduce with this advocacy of absurdity in BiH, to perhaps sit outside these benches of the Assembly, to introduce a different practice that we do not have in BiH, to have interpartisan meetings, agreements, talks on between the two entities, and to discuss many of these issues that we only discuss when the agenda is defined, in the course of defining the agenda and after the assembly. We're not ready for that at all. We're probably not even ready because we care about absurdity, so when we get everything to the absurd, then we'll start something. I really can't accept the fact that some parties here, which are present, are significantly present, preferable and able to say, perhaps even use consultations with the Office of the High Representative and the Office of the High Representative, with all the respect of the Office of the High Representative, that we understand each other immediately, rather than using opportunities to talk, to conduct interpartisan talks, agreements, in order to prepare the assembly, after the assembly, to organise round tables, etc. Gentlemen, I spoke behind this pay phone and I'll repeat it again. In one period of our parliamentary action, it was more important to lobby some of the powers of the international community than to prove to the colleagues who are sitting with us here, who are elected by the people of BiH, and that is one reason, as we are, and the people, we must start from that, they cared more about making lobbies there, than that, within the frameworks of our laws, they create conditions for us to agree here. Of course, let me go back to what we were offered. It's not what we were offered ideally, it's not likely to be optimal. But we need to start with the situation we're in and see what it is that we want for the next five months until the next election, in a period when we're still on vacation. I would just remind you, although you all know very well, that one of the conditions for BiH's admission is a permanent membership of the Council of Europe, the Council of Ministers and the functioning of the Council of Ministers. If done, there is a chance that BiH will be on the agenda already at the September session, and most likely, if not then, at the latest in January. It's one of the very important things we should have right now. It is certain that in these five months there is no way to do many of the things that my colleague Spahić has been talking about and which I, in essence, support that they should be made, and whether I am now in this composition, whose mandate is only five months, we can expect to make such turns. It seems to me that, with the observations I have, and individually, and also the whole procedure around, to this moment, with respect to all of this, it seems to me that this composition offers the possibility of something new. The new will be safe. We'll have mostly new people, unburdened, mostly unburdened in the '90s. - In '92, it's not '95. Most of them. We're going to have people who have experience here, parliamentaryly, who've been through all of what we've all been experiencing, some of us from the old band, and some as MPs, and with our little different relationship to all 39 of what we're supposed to do here, on the one hand, and I'd underline here, according to everything they're obliged to do by the governments of the entity and the entity assembly. We can go much faster. From the Council of Ministers, in this period, I personally expect to launch a process that has never existed before, which is better coordination between entity governments. We've often been bored here, wasting time talking about those things that entity governments were obliged to do. The Council of Ministers should be the coordinator of all this. The Council of Ministers should try to establish co-ordination between parliaments, although it is not his duty, but it is certain that we would waste less time on some laws, draft laws, that there was co-ordination between the Federation of BiH and the National Assembly of the RS. That's where they have to look for new reserves. I consider this government, or this Council of Ministers, above all as a matter of compromise, compromise, among other things, and parties that participated and participated in the negotiation and possibility of what could go on in this assembly. That compromise was extorted, in that sense, by our voters who chose us as we are. The compromise should also be because of what we need to do here to satisfy some formal ones, which are very important conditions for BiH's further destiny. But, gentlemen, we will have to be prepared for much more compromise. Of course, compromises must be based on something. Here in our assembly, compromises must be based on the BiH Constitution. If we can't agree here, on this basis we're building a compromise, then it's really hard to agree on something successfully and then we'll always blame it on something else. At this point, I'm willing to compromise on a compromise that I would never agree to if I were on a negotiating team to put this team together. I would never agree, gentlemen, that of the three ministries, and I will list them: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that of those three ministries, of six, there are no RS ministers. In the negotiation process, I would never be ready for that compromise. If that is a condition, here, that one of the institutions, the joint institutions of BiH, is functioning, I will be in favour of this compromise today, but since November, it is certain that whether I am in this Parliament or someone else from my party, I will not give the right to vote for any compromise that will not respect, here is this fact that is logical. She's not constitutionally restricted, but she's quite logical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5761	I'm going to ask you to be a little shorter in the debates.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5762	I haven't even started yet. Ladies and gentlemen, as expected, this Council of Ministers composition is not the product of political parties' agreement in BiH either. I claim it with full responsibility. We did not take fate into our own hands, as we usually like to talk phraseologically, someone continues to dictate with both our fate and our lives and our misfortunes and our misery, but at least that they want to legitize and at least that they want to take whatever is taken and be responsible for everything they answer for. I think it's quite clear to me, and it's clear to me that you know, and I know well that there was a directive and a speech, this one can't, and mostly, gentlemen, it was about the Serbian people. With full responsibility behind this pay phone, I'm saying it. With full responsibility, too, I would like to say that the only voting will of the Serb people is not represented in the 40th Council of Ministers. Please, gentlemen, it is well known who went through the elections and it is well known that neither Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak nor Tihomir Gligorić nor Jadranko Prlić nor Bisera Turković or Mirsad Kurtović or Martin Raguž, it is not those who received most of the votes in RS. Niko of them have that order. Why? Whether it's about love, gentlemen, or hate, or evil. Let those who have done so look themselves in the mirror and answer themselves whether it is honor and morality. If it is, let it be their morale. I don't need that kind of morale. Please, I know very well that when everyone else prefers the state where I was born and presented, then I probably don't feel right, or something's wrong with them. You don't need to hide, gentlemen. We studied these hideouts a long time ago, and we know their contents and backgrounds, and we know them well. No one can decide better about the fate of this people than this people. I was srećan at the Kolegijum meeting, when we discussed with representatives of religious communities and when we were alone. They showed us, from these religious communities, that they have one body in common, and they make a very good deal, and here at any moment we are calling for someone third and moaning as if a third could come and solve the problems that have arisen here. And about that, sir, we can talk, but there's one happy news that makes me happy, here, these gentlemen, will now have a chance to show what they know, to show how good they are, but also those who dictated and approved this composition, and they will have to bear responsibility for what they're going to do. I'll give them support so that you can ask them if that's the good intentions you promised me here. Gentlemen, we have here, if you remember, formed additional ministries to solve the problems of those unfortunates, refugees and displaced, some of them can't even see their houses and will never see them, because there are some pelicans and some other bases, and that's democracy in this space, and that's democracy. I know about it, too. It will not be possible to hide the truth from the eyes of the world public, let everyone know, but also, I expect that this composition of ministers, the Council of Ministers, will show how much support they have here and with us in Parliament and how much support they have from international organisations, because they will not be able to dictate, not respond. Whoever dictates will have to answer. I tell you the last time, this is the last time I speak about a name, and my next speech on this subject will be with specific names, because I know that the gigs come well and that no one gives up good dining and other good cash registers or good bags, and we'll see if it'll benefit this people. So, gentlemen, maybe this sounds phraseological to you, and maybe you don't even know what this is about. I don't think you've forgotten so much about the present we live in. Let it be one transitional period to what we all want, which is that we truly decide who we want.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5763	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I went out for a pay phone, to express my concern for the possibility of quality work of the Council of Ministers in this conference, and I base my fear, or fear, on the fact that I know the way of working of individual proposed candidates and their vision of BiH, or the perspective of BiH. Also, for the reason that I could see through this biography, and from before I know the past of certain candidates, and the other thing that I would like to say here, may also be the question of whether all the proposed candidates for the BiH Council of Ministers and Citizens, since yesterday at a meeting with religious chiefs, I got one, let's say 41, a saying or a finding, by religious leaders, who said: "Let's respect or protect the rights to be Bosanac without being Bosanac without living in BiH." I believe that all the elected should be citizens of BiH, and that should perhaps also be in the biography. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5764	I'm asking you to discuss the agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5765	I'll take the advice of our chairman, so I'll be really, really brief. I think that this situation today, that we haven't had the Council of Ministers of BiH for five months now, that by estimating this and estimating that in the composition of the BiH Council of Ministers' Council members, indeed, we should have made a lot of efforts to find a compromise, the HDZ Club will support this and will vote for the members of the BiH Council, as the chairman suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5766	Thank you very much, I don't think it would be fair to ask for a team to be good and that we control it if we don't give the right menu to make it. I once again say, I will support what the man has suggested, aware that I will answer for what I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5767	I understand normally, if the mandater – the chairman, brings out one programme, if questions are asked to him, it is parliament, he should say, on issues of the media I mean that and, on minorities I mean that and, on Euro-Atlantic integrations, it refers to it and that, about Europe, which is not an abstract concept, but refers to Southeast Europe, about relations with America, about relations with other countries. Why am I asking that? Because it is not on the globe of the earthly government towards parliament or parliament towards a government that will not exactly allow the programme to be set aside for time, whether the term of office is four years, two years, to say, here, gentlemen of the MPs, in this BiH country, in this and that country, I, as chairman, will have such a policy. It's not about the politics of impressions and your goodwill. Secondly, Mr Tuševljak said, if I heard correctly, he has a magnetogram: “He received proposals and relations in Parliament under certain circumstances.” I didn't understand it was his suggestion. It's his proposal from an existing situation. The sentence exists that he could suggest himself, another team proposed or different in some cases. It's such a normal thing. It's not a discussion. The key is, if we asked some questions, we'd get answers. If there won't be any answer and if we're going to say it, because we haven't done it at all, let's get it over with, you guys go ahead. I, just as Mrs. Ana Havel said it would be for, said that my position was clear, and in the conversation with Mr. Tuševljak and this speaker, I made these remarks, I would not have made them out to most of them if I had heard them in the presentation, but I expressed them, because I believe that the BiH Parliament gives some kind of responsibility, a mandate, to that council to behave in accordance with one country's policy, and 42 of the country's policies cannot be reduced to what I think of that country and about this job, but about what is the objective policy of each country, that's the first thing. The second question, I didn't understand anything Mr. Banjac, and I've never in my life heard more complicated exposure from someone who claims to give a precise and clear relationship with parliament. I didn't understand anything. I'd like to get that magnetogram so I know what it's about, what kind of gray forces they're watching over us. If there are gray forces unknown, then let's go out and see what's going on with those forces, with those stragglers. Secondly, there's no way that someone's giving consent to someone, if they don't say transparently, I don't agree with that, so they say I won't vote. I agree with that, so I'll vote for those and those reasons, but if I blackmail someone in advance, you'll see if you don't do the way I see it, you'll see when that transit period goes by how it's gonna be when I fix it, it can't. Parliament expects the speaker's exposés. He got it. Questions have been asked, he expects answers. As for Mr Malkić's position, I also understood nothing. I must say that these are incredible two statements and if it were a discussion on the occasion of the appointment or confirmation of the appointment of gentlemen in parliament, then I think we really lost the compass, which is our responsibility against the BiH institutions. I've heard that one clerk wrote a letter about who calls are to be sent here in this House, from elected people, from elected people, from officials to another institution to the international and I could also fantasize, to ask these questions and to call this official, but I won't, because I don't have the need for that, because it's clear to me, but that someone is saying that everything is clear to him, and that there's something left in the fog, that I don't like, simply, those two statements by Mr. Malkić Abdurahman, Mr. Banjac, I don't understand, and I don't understand in what context they want to tell parliament, because it's a relationship with us, as a parliament. If they have anything to say about Spasoje Tuševljak, Mr. Minister, about some candidate, and I don't know what anyone's already calling him, let me see what's going on. This is how you leave us in a dilemma, at least for the next five months, until November 11th.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5768	I wish we'd asked questions to our prime minister, not to strike immediately at criticism, in some conjecture.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5769	Very short, my dear fellow MP. Now I understand why you care about education to discuss, I understand that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5770	Thank you very much. I ask you, let us direct the debate to specific issues of the prime minister. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5771	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I also agree that MPs should, however, be more specific in their observations. I also, to be honest, didn't realize what Mr. Banjac was talking about earlier, but about it. I would have noticed that almost none of the debaters had problems with the personal solutions that were given here, so, to a large extent, there were words, let's say, about the political environment where individual staff were recruited and proposed in this personal composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH, so that there is a dilemma, or one specific issue, that I must ask the mandater, or the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. I think it would be good to clarify who all the consultations were held with, that is, with which political entities, who refused to participate in negotiations on the establishment of the BiH Council of Ministers, and the name and last name to stress which political parties all of these candidates who are proposed here as candidates for the BiH Council of Ministers' composition. I personally must say that I am not very excited with a significant number of candidates who are proposed, on the other hand, I also respect the fact that this kind of proposal reflects, however, a political reality, or a total of political movements in BiH, political relations, so that one serious and responsible parliamentarian must take care of what is real, versus what is his personal political option. However, since there were clearly objections here from the representatives of political parties who apriors have denied any possibility of participating in the constitution of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think it is still good to know which political parties these people belong to, that in some way, it would seem to me, and with this, to demonstrate certain delusions about some political concept, which is behind this, if this political concept exists, then what someone called here is the political reality that we need to build our views in parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5772	I ask you to bring this debate to an end, and to the questions that have been raised, I assume the gentleman will answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5773	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I'll be very brief, I think we're all bored with our long-term discussion, that we're tired of it, and even the follow-up of these playful discussions, it feels, and it's created a degutant atmosphere here. We are constantly crying, complaining that BiH is not being created as a state, which is not improving, which is not perfecting, and by today's very act, in our discussions, in our playful discussions, in our intelligences, we show, more and less, that in a real, essential sense, and we do not care very much about BiH being set up specifically and going to work once. For that reason, I would say that we need to be concrete today, correct, and to support Mr. Tuševljak to form this team, this team, and to go with work, and if this team is not good, and if Mr. Tuševljak is not a good captain of that team, we ask that we replace him. So I think we should form this team today, work and pass once, maybe even cheap exhibition, playful speech, outwitting, etc. 44 I will only read here, or quote the words of one Russian poet, Aleksandar Blok: “I do not believe in the fairy tales of the rainbows; I am all pale of torment; all the doors shall be opened, and the other which are fated by me all.” That's our destiny, just because we're running away from a particular problem and we don't want to solve it. BiH is a reality and as a state, it's a reality and we, in the context of this reality, have to take it up and we have to solve things as they are. We can't go from assumptions today, as Mr Tokić says, what tomorrow BiH will be like and through that prism tomorrow, profuturo, solve today's problems. Today's problems BiH must solve through the aspect of today's context of things, and tomorrow, if elections are like this, let those teams, or those parties that win the elections solve the problems in their own way. Therefore, I appeal to all, let us be concrete, brief, precise to form this council of ministers and to come to work once.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5774	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. After all these discussions, I felt the need to go out and say why we're all surprised what it is to implement the election results. If there wasn't something wrong with the choice of people, from all your discussions, I could see what Mr. Banjac wanted to say? We are not here by our own free will, but chosen from the political parties, this is our Bosnian Herzegovina reality. What bothers us is that one party, behind which is 150,000 voters, is publicly suggested that people are ahead of the party and that party. So rows of size have been disrupted. There wouldn't be this much discussion if it wasn't for the disrupted rows of size. Gentlemen, if we went to the election results, we wouldn't have come to a dilemma about how and why someone got on the list. If we didn't want BiH as a state, then we wouldn't even be sitting there. We've been elected to the highest peak of a country to do what we can do. What's wrong? I see there's something wrong, because I can't determine myself according to all these discussions and I won't determine myself if there's no implementation of something called the electoral electoral body. Don't hide behind something, when he set us up, when we are who we are, when this is one country, which is set up by the political will of the people, by the commitment of the people of BiH, I see that I don't see any representatives of my party anywhere, it's likely that some rows of size, you know, and that's what you're discussing. Now that it's going to go any further, we'll see from the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5775	Thank you very much, I think we've exhausted the debate. They ask if as a candidate or as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5776	As an MP. Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests. This item of the agenda is somewhat unusual for my way of discussing it, but I have to say, for the reason that my name, in a certain combination, is mentioned, but I would like to draw attention to, say, a tone of exposure from SDP representatives, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, with whom I have absolutely no problems, it seems to me that we communicate well, but the way in which I now assume, Tokić, not SDP, of 18 names, challenges Mr. Tuševljak, Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Špirić, is not good. 45 Not good for BiH, I'm convinced. BiH citizens will not believe this story by Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, I will leave myself aside, you will say about me, I am a...right MP and we are all wearing our '90 biography. This way, mine's public. There is no man in BiH, a member of any political option, therefore, anyone I am not ready to talk to, cooperate and work with in the interest of the citizens of BiH. The other thing is whether we get along often. So that's why we're from different political options. Therefore, I would pray only, I went out to say that the names that has apostrophe Mr. Tokić will just give a tone to your will to the Council of Ministers. It will be a significant change for BiH, be convinced, regardless of whether it meets certain political options in the pre-election campaign. A project that prepares, that nothing is wrong in BiH, nothing works, that needs radical changes in November is on the line of Tokic's story, but that will require citizens to ask. If they say that the Social Democrats have the power of 51%, this story ends since November, but if they don't, we're in that environment and it's a matter of reality that we're talking about, and now I'm going to repeat. If the representatives of the political options agreed on these names, in consultation with the international community, which is an inevitable factor, regardless of what anyone thought, perhaps from my correct co-operation with everyone and sometimes the most open dialogue, may be the greatest resistance to me, but that is our reality. We were for that reality. I've always said, whenever we don't agree, the arbitration of the international community is heightened. Why don't I answer? I ask you all to ask what you want from me, in front of the BiH public. Not because Nikola Špirić wants and wants to be, but I don't think anyone has the right, in the interest of citizens, to amnesty from hard and responsible work. So please let us speak in public. Say what three names, because they're called, say, Spasoje, because his name is Nikola, I want to think about it now, let the Social Democrats answer and because his name is Tihomir, they're not good. It's not a good message. I ask you to bring the debate to an end, this story will depend on the will of the MPs, are we ready to build a new concept in BiH. Here's the message today. That some parties will say that only when they win and bring news to BiH, when they win, will they bring and that is why I want to say that all these names on the list I know individually. There is no one in BiH or most in public life I personally do not know. I don't have any Dickies? to cooperate. I need to be sought within the framework of the Constitution and the law. Out of it, I'm gone. No matter what someone might wish they had me, but I'm not here. And that's why I'm asking you to bring this to an end. The will of the MPs will depend on how ready we are to move on or how ready we are to wait for a better future announced, under quotes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5777	Thank you very much. I think the time has come for us to come forward on the proposal from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5778	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, the release of fellow Špirić gave me the basis to go out on my own, because, while respecting the circumstances in which we are in which of all the candidates proposed, only fellow Špirić in this double role refused to ask the question precisely to Mr Tuševljak and to specify him on the inclusion of Mr Špirić among candidates in ministerial and alternate posts. 46 In fact, this step-by-step fellow Špirić gave me space, as much as I think it is a little difficult to talk about certain people, and these people are not there, or to talk about how many we have, 18 people, talk about only one or only some. However, I came out to say that last time, at the previous session, when we elected the BiH Council of Ministers chairman, I gave my voice to Mr Tuševljak, among other things, and because he said he was a legalist and technocrat. Excepting the reason for my personal agreement or disagreement with the political views of Mr Špirić, I am leaving entirely aside the content of Mr Špirić's political views, personally knowing Mr Spiric from parliament more than some of the others or from most candidates on this list, I have gained the impression, in fact, that I could now also argue that, if my colleague Špirić, whose professional, professional and scientific qualifications I do not enter, has shown in parliament that he is a much more ambitious politician than if he is legalist and technocrat. To the extent that Mr. Tuševljak influenced the choice of candidates or could influence, while fellow Špirić gave me the space to ask me the question, I ask whether Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers had in mind the fact that there are MPs in Parliament whose policy, in some sense, is both professional and almost life. I am personally repeating, without ambition, to pollomise, of course, with the views of my colleague Špirić, I claim that my colleague Špirić has been, and has now shown with this step, that he is much more prone to political promotion and promotion of his political views than a man who is interested in something which is quite loose, of course, I am aware of that, is referred to as legalism and technocratism in politics, especially when it comes to executive power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5779	Please, Mr. Tuševljak, if there are any indicative answers to our questions and discussions, how are they, to offer them to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5780	Well, of course, there were probably questions here that weren't quite clearly asked, so they were dragged somewhere into some political structures, into the shorelands. I think politics is one legal and legitimate thing, of course. I think politicians need to follow that line of law too closely. Now, if I become some politician based on my tendency to follow the line of law closely, maybe that's what's going to happen. Although, let me say it again, I don't have that kind of ambition. How come Špirić on the list, here, I started with this question, because it's right there, and so is everyone else. Secondly, I will, as the authorities allow me, ask all the people on the team for one and the other, what I said, to be legalists and to do their job well and there, believe me, don't have any dilemmas about how it's going to be. As for all the other questions that have been asked, I think the answers mostly exist in this exposé. I made it clear there in one sentence that the foundation of everything that will be done by program or by program, is a legal state. Legal state. Now, you know, if we start to discuss it, there can be a symposium here, of course, but don't ask me, as executive chief, to ask me to enter arbitration, etc. You, political parties and parliament, you can make many things so that you can construct and talk well and talk well and make a career out of politics and career-telling, I don't want it to have a negative connotation 47 please, I want to be polite and I will always be polite. I'm in a place where I have to work too well, so I'm minding my own business, to work specifically. Mr Spahić has asked many questions very important. Surely he too could have asked three hundred more questions that are also very important. He's focused on ten questions, there's ten of them, and you said you'd ask two or three, but you asked ten questions. Well, gentlemen, what doesn't matter to a man's better life? Of course, a stable and promotional state is important. Come on, the political parties are here, so let's agree on what are the best ways to achieve it, of course, that a strong economy is important, so there's a government to deal with it. In BiH, it's three governments. That's what's about the rule of law, you know. This is also what is related to competences, as said in the programme, that everyone must work within their respective competences. You will not be able to invoice with the Council of Ministers what an entity government or local government should do in a municipality controlled by a strong political party or by a strong leader, but be sure that I will personally, clearly and openly, always show where the problem is and to make clear what I think of the particular problem. I don't know, here, ask me if there were any more questions, and there were, of course, more questions, I can answer all the questions and I'll always be ready to answer all the questions, it's my duty to answer parliament's questions, but, please, we have to work, work. So, come on, it's been five months, it's been in BiH and five years. Five years have passed, this BiH since the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'm not here to share any lessons, whether something has been done or not, but, please, I believe that in these five months we can do a lot of useful things. Let us do these useful things, so you'll appreciate whether we did it or not. I said what the concept of the program was, gentlemen. It'll take eight and nine months, maybe a year, to make him a real program. I'm an economist. It's a matter of billing. The program is always a matter of account. That bill needs to be made. It's gonna take us three or four months to figure things out. Well, here's the first inventory written. If we were going to do inventory and good, of course, I could talk about all the other questions. I think I made myself clear. I think our concept is clear, too. He's available to the public. It will be given to the media. The government won't fill in the media programs. Someone also asked about the media, of course. You know what? And the media, of course, can totally meet at those points. We can discuss the media in particular what we need to do and pass the laws we need to pass, but everything again within our jurisdiction. With this truly ending, so, you have exposés, you have a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. The jurisdiction is that you confirm it or challenge it. Here, use your jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5781	I beg you, we believe this is what we have circled the debate and pleaded yes or no.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5782	Although I had been holding onto the chair for a while not to get up, not to raise some questions, I also, when I heard Mr. Tuševljak answering questions, I really lost my will. I mean here at the pay phone, if we choose a government and if we MPs ask questions to the government, I don't want to, I don't expect to, nor will I allow an MP to teach us how we should behave 48. If we can get answers to questions to get them, and those who chose us, they'll evaluate how we behave.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5783	Please don't enter the dialogue. There's no need. I think everyone asked and suggested what he knew and washed. I will put this on the vote by Mr. Tuševljak's proposal for a government that he has proposed, for these people, for the Council of Ministers of BiH, I am sorry, for the people he will lead and for whose work he will also be responsible for this home. So I'm asking you, who's in favor of accepting this proposal that Mr. Tuševljak offered? Who's in? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? It is an honor to announce the results of your vote and our vote. Of the 30 MPs present – 18 were in favour – it was against 10. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, 10 round was for. From RS, 8 was in favour. I believe this proposal has been adopted. We've had every vote like this so far. Here you go, if you have one. Come on, if you have any objections to the vote. I repeat the results of the vote. Of the 30 candidates present, 18 were in favour – 10 were against. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, 10 were in favour. According to the new voting method, we know that this is a condition for some proposal to pass. From RS, 8 was in favour. Therefore, it is seen, indeed, by entities, only for, and therefore, here all the conditions are met. I congratulate our mandater, his team and the people he suggested I congratulate and wish for success in the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5784	I want to thank this esteemed home for the trust it has shown to our program and our team. I have no illusion it'll be easy at all. I've never had that illusion. I also want to say to all those who did not support our exposés and our team, that I will try to make every effort to consider all their initiatives – we will also support in all those segments where they are on the line of our programming, of course that they will be fully treated equally as initiatives of all others. I think there's now room for us to actually start working. We'll be on the move from Sunday to Sunday. Expect for future meetings and our concrete initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5785	Dear colleagues, distinguished gentlemen, esteemed Prime Minister's Council President, I ask you, for those of us who were against, do not respect our initiatives, we need you to answer our questions. Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5786	Appreciated representatives, with congratulations for selecting the Council of Ministers of BiH, members of the Council of Ministers, with a desire for good work and a desire to justify the confidence of this parliament, I would like to give a suggestion, and you can understand that as well as an objection to our chairman. We got this proposal the way we got it, the Cyrillic. We here have the right to receive this proposal on the Latin. I'm asking you not to do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5787	Okay, thank you, this is a technical matter. I'm asking for so much tolerance that we have all the letters.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5788	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm joining the congratulations and I want a lot of success in the work, but please, Mr. Chairman, that you and your team are already on your way to work and that you surprise us for the next session with the answer to that conclusion that we have reached today regarding those seven laws, so that we can go on living and working. I expect that your efficiency, which you have said here behind this pay phone, will be confirmed in part at the next session. Thank you very much. And the next session, since we have no real chance of finishing this agenda today, we will most likely continue 4.7, or you will be informed of its follow-up and the next session in good time. Now I thank you and wish you a happy trip. The seat's finished at 6:30. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5790	Honorable representatives and guests, please, for peace. As we hope and are confident that this session will be expeditively and quickly brought to an end and democratically, we continue with the work of the 23rd session of the House of Representatives. Representatives and all regular participants in our work were invited to continue the session. Representatives of the public communication funds I welcome here have also been invited. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work of the House of Representatives. According to our service report, from the Secretariat, the meetings are present at 22 MPs, we have a quorum. The absence of the session was justified by lawmakers: Ivo Mijačević, Miodrag Deretić, Radenka Balta, head of Halid Genjac is also absent due to his official trip. Representative Rijad Raščić announced a delay in the session, and we will greet him when he arrives. Dear gentlemen, I suggest we get started. We have a quorum for full-time decision-making and work. As you know, we started the 23rd session and interrupted it at the 3rd agenda, which is the programme of the House of Representatives for 2000. However, prior to the start of the work, i.e. the continuation of the work of this session, according to the adopted agenda, the College predicted that the Council of Ministers', ministers and deputy ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers would present their solemn oath today. I hope there are no valid objections to this and, expecting a consensus, I ask Mr. President and the Minister and Deputy to make a solemn oath. Please stand up. I will read the text, and you in your own languages will choose to repeat yourself. I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5791	I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5792	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5793	That I would implement and defend the BiH Constitution. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5794	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5795	That I would fully implement the Peace Accords.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5796	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5797	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5798	And defend the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5799	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5800	I sincerely congratulate you all and wish you a successful and happy way to democratisation and include BiH in all integration, European and global. Thank you very much. Please, we're moving on. štovati gentlemen, I congratulate you once again and wish for success in your work, which will be a confirmation of our work in Parliament. Gentlemen, I am obliged to remind you that today we have received an innovative calendar of Home activities during the summer period. As you have seen, there has been a change from the calendar set by the College at the June 15th session and which has been assigned to you in the first part of this session. This is because we do not have concrete materials that would meet all the conditions to be considered at the House. That is why we have left it open, if the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers in the form of a proposal some of the laws that the House has discussed and established as drafts or opinions that we asked the Council of Ministers for on certain drafts of the law and which would then be put on the agenda, that is to say, call for a session in the 7th month if necessary. We also have a proposal, following today's session, to hold a permanent and permanent session of parliament, if the electoral law comes here to our proposals, or to our benches, in order to meet this condition of BiH's entry into the EE. Allow, honored gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, to continue to work and consider the 3rd item of the agenda, which we have already adopted at the 23rd session. It's a program of the House of Representatives. 52 Ad.3. The programme of work of the House of Representatives The necessary explanations will be given by the successor, Mr Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5801	Dear gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished MPs, distinguished guests, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers of BiH, I wish you successful work on this occasion, to work quickly and to have results. We, as a parliament, are helping you to start already. Today, if Bog does, we will bring our work programme back to 2000, although this programme is about six months late, and this should be taken into account when we go back a little bit to the past and remember that last year's programme was adopted at the very end of the year, but with a lot more activity than objectively possible, so that today's work programme, which we offer you as a College of Representatives' House, is based on two key principles, which is the principle of priority and importance of certain programming tasks and another very important principle, is the principle of feasibility. I think that we both respected the principle and that today you will have a document in front of you that I can say that the College of the House of Representatives unanimously adopted, and I am convinced that in today's debate, you will also behave constructively and respect these two principles that I have mentioned. I ask you, anything that could be megalomaniac, which could be utopian, don't build into the Program, because it will make our situation and our work more difficult. I believe everything that's important and urgent is contained here. If we combine these two formulations and important and urgent, then I can certainly hope that they will benefit. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, number one, and you have heard the explanation of Mr. Chairman, number one is the Election Law, and we are already ready to form a working group today, which by next week, or perhaps ten days longer, will offer the first version of the draft of the Electoral Law. Thank Bog that many in BiH have realized that progress can be, if we work together and if we agree, if we agree on attitudes and if we make progress, I especially stress this, if we pass laws. I don't want to talk much, and I don't want to. You have received the text of the work programme, I expect you will also very briefly and constructively propose its additions and changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5802	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, in full session, I hope that we will have the opportunity to see you when we look for answers to certain questions, together with the chairman. I'd like, on this agenda point, to make two precise demands. First, after the debate and if we adopt the Programme of Labour of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and I believe also after the adoption of the programme of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we need to make a commitment to one conclusion by the Council of Ministers, to make it quite clear to the programme and to have an operational programme of the BiH Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries for the implementation of the commitments under the BiH Parliamentary Assembly programme at the next session. This would, in fact, create a normal democratic procedure, and this Council of Ministers, which we have today declared, which has sworn a solemn oath, could suit this House. It would be perfectly natural, given that I received 53 information, that the BiH Council of Ministers is also working in an uninterrupted session, as has been proposed for the BiH Parliament itself. I underline that it would be very harmful if there was no agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers' obligations towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, according to a programme that we adopt today and, in fact, we would find ourselves in the gap between what is the obligation of the executive authority and what is the obligation. It could happen soon that the BiH Council of Ministers is overcoming those areas of responsibility to parliament, unless it is strictly tied to its executive power. The example for this is, that is my second note, to react to the decisions of the BiH Constitutional Court, members of the BiH Council of Ministers for which, as an MP, I would like to say it is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5803	It's got nothing to do with the dot.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5804	It has to do with the point because the BiH Council of Ministers should be an example of how the Constitution and the BiH Constitutional Court are respected and members of the BiH Council of Ministers should not comment, outside of their jurisdiction and function of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision, these are two remarks. Now I would like to move on to the draft agenda point, which refers directly to the content of the programme that we want to consider here. First, I would like to say that we are on several occasions, and I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to bear in mind, to discuss a law that I have initiated, which concerns the law on minority rights and the freedoms of minorities in BiH. BiH, if it wants to build good neighbouring relations, if it wants to develop its position in Southeast Europe and wants to integrate the Euro-Atlantic structure, must have an adequate law on national minorities and must provide their protection as a whole, because it is part of a Corps called civil and human rights and freedoms. I would like to initiate such an opportunity of work, given that we have received the Ministry of Human Rights and I think it would be useful, in that sense, for the Council of Ministers of BiH to respond whether it is ready to work on such a law. Another law discussed in BiH, which is in some way a hub for human rights and freedom, is copyright law. BiH, for its entry into the World Trade Organisation, must have its copyright law and it is one of the fundamental civilizational flows on which the entire modern, political philosophy of society's activities rests and, of course, the guarantee of copyright, up to this genome. In order to have competition and protection of human rights and freedoms, copyrights, in every respect, in all areas of life, are placed in priority rights and without them there is no basis for a modern state. I mean artists, of course. On the other hand, I would like to say that we have submitted an initiative, which I do not see here in the Work Programme, and it is in line with the old rules of procedure, on the basis of which we are still acting, which should have been proposed, and could also be questioned, only under certain procedures, as provided for by the Rules of Procedure. It is a series of initiatives related to changes to the entity's constitution, in line with the BiH Constitution, including the Sarajevo law, as the BiH capital, and as we've stood out several times, I've been reading both the foreign minister and another, Sarajevo, as a promising regional centre in various areas in this area lately. But in order for the regional centre to be respected, that city can't be run anywhere unless there's one serious law on internal action. We as a state have an obligation to bring something like that. Fourthly, I believe it is high time that, given the White Paper, a document on the ties of the European Union and BiH, which are related to the Declaration on the Special Relations of the EU and BiH in Associated Membership, should be given appropriate treatment to the BiH Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is a direct recommendation of the White Paper, to the scientific and research institutions at BiH level. It is explicitly stated, alongside these institutions and universities, or universities. So it's completely consistent with the character of a normal, modern state, which counts on scientific, research and cultural and every other work and presentation in the world. Fifthly, the Law that I think must be considered, or one Parliament statement, in accordance with the last session of this Parliamentary Assembly, concerns the declaration of education, the fight, the segregation in education, the conventions that arise for the school system at all levels, and the roles and responsibilities of Parliament to regulate these relations at the level of the BiH state, the equalisation of all rights of generations, there is not only for education, at the basic and highest levels and on the funds and all that results from the obligation to stimulate talents and, of course, what is the development programme of a normal state. Then I'd like to make two precise points. I asked at the beginning that this strategy of economic development, i.e. the basics of economic reforms and laws, as well as the rapid beginning, be adopted at the first next session. Now we have a council that has sworn an oath. I believe, since I have received information, I don't know which time, from Mr. Kurtović, that it is now in the procedure, at some professional verification, so it will go with the international community to consult OHR and others, the World Bank and to public debates. I would just like to warn, it would not be good if the BiH Council of Ministers, in my opinion, slipped out of one right path towards the BiH Parliament, that is the conclusion of both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and that working paper is obviously not prepared until the end to appear. I would ask that we get assurances that he will first be discussed in parliament's working bodies after he begins any other public debate after all consultations. Because it is in a public debate, and the parliament is passed, fate will happen to it as with the electoral law. Another important strategic document is a resolution on trust and reconciliation in BiH, which I think is a mature time, and I think we have reason to do something like that, as a very clear political gesture by the BiH Parliament. In the end, I'd like to inform you of one fact. There are many links between BiH and the world institutions, parliaments, Interparliamentary Union, the European Parliament, etc., in the Stability Pact, the OSCE, but something that we registered during our last visit, my colleague Kadić and I, in the status of observers, on behalf of the BiH Parliament, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, is an amazing fact. In addition to all the declarations, according to a resolution adopted a year ago in this House, in addition to the active role of the Foreign Ministry, in addition to the active investment by the Foreign Policy Commission, BiH has never submitted a formal request to this moment, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, concerns us, to enter the status of other countries in this part of the world in the 55 NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I think that would be a major failure, if we didn't program it as a normal obligation, related to the structures that support this community, and on the other hand, NATO Secretary-General, Parliamentary Assembly Sajmon Leng, expressed interest in our parliament's official visit and, of course, expressed confidence that BiH would build its structures and relevant bodies in parliament, which concern this integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5805	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5806	I would ask that we define ourselves, that is to inform us, which rules of procedure are we working on, whether it's temporary or permanent? If it's permanent, is it possible to get a consolidated text, because a man can't remember everything from the Rules of Procedure, that we can follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5807	With pleasure. We are still working on the provisional Rules of Procedure, because the procedure for the publication of the Rules of Procedure, which we have adopted here, has not been brought to an end. So, please, last time I said it at the session, and I repeat, we're still working on the provisional rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5808	Well, I'd move on to this agenda point, appreciating what Mr. Banjac said at the introduction, I also want some additional questions to run for the draft work programme for 2000, because I don't think all the important questions are covered. I would like to remind you that in April of this year, the BiH Presidency delivered its conclusions to the BiH Parliament, which supports EU guidelines on the steps BiH should take, in order to approach the development of a similarity study to conclude the EU-BiH Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think that we should include in our programme the important points that are foreseen in these guidelines for this year, by the end of this year, and these are the following points that are not given in this programme, which is the adoption of the Law on Restitution and I, as far as I know, and I know because I was the promoter of a law on restitution, and that law is in parliamentary procedure for a little while, though. In the previous phase, the BiH Council of Ministers provided us with suggestions and I think it might find places by the end of this year to discuss the adoption of a restitution law. Secondly, it is foreseen that the BiH Council of Ministers will prepare, together with entity governments and in co-operation with the World Bank, a medium-term economic development strategy for BiH. It's supposed to happen this year. That's why I'm reminding you. I think that Parliament should, not say otherwise, but declare itself interested in discussing this strategy and that we should include it in the proposal for a programme of work of the BiH Parliament, so it should be defined, and the Council of Ministers of BiH will do what is in its jurisdiction. 56 Furthermore, I think that, according to these guidelines, the civil service law should also be included by the end of the year. As far as I know, the law is well prepared in the BiH Council of Ministers, if not, to prepare it soon. Then, I think that we should include in the guidelines for amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, which would allow the introduction of a single passport, which is the definition of these guidelines, therefore, is also the definition of the BiH presidency when supporting the guidelines. Furthermore, I suggest that the law on the vault, which is scheduled for September, be passed at the next session, because I think, since we have held here a debate on the bill, that the Council of Ministers of BiH can prepare the law by the next session, because it is not, I say, conveniently that we have the Council of Ministers Act that says we have the Ministry of Treasury, we have elected ministers for the Treasury, and we don't have the Treasury, because we don't have the law on which it should be established, this is such a small and ridiculous situation, that we have everything that needs to follow the institution when it is established. I think that the law that we discussed a few months ago, if I remember correctly, and gave suggestions here at the BiH Parliament, can be done quickly, if there is, of course, a willingness to do so, and I don't see why it shouldn't be, and that law is provided for in the guidelines. Furthermore, I would suggest that, with the Law, which is provided for here, standardisation, the area of measurement and accreditation should also be treated for the following reasons. I do not propose that special laws be passed, if the Council of Ministers finds it appropriate, to pass a law on measurement and accreditation, I have no objection to that being and as a special given, and my explanation is as follows. The measurement system, i.e. measures and measurements, should be organised by the state and thus provide a unique approach to the European and world markets, for the purpose of the transport of goods, persons, capital and services. I note that, since the beginning of 1997, BiH has been a member of the International Organisation for Legal Measurement, and by establishing a legal regulatory framework in the field of measurement, it would have been a condition for regular membership in the International Organisation for Legal Measurement. As regards accreditation, accreditation law or accreditation regulation, regulation of this part, in any regulation, the State shall determine the means, means and obligations of authorising the same calibration and other laboratories, services, institutions, thus ensuring that the results are internationally acceptable, atheists, certificates and remove barriers to the transport of goods, services and capital. I know the guidelines provide for a patent law, trademarks and copyrights, but it's scheduled for a period after 2000, so unless we're in a position to include it in this programme, I don't insist, we have to count on it, that it's the law. In addition to what I said, regarding the guidelines, I would suggest that corporate law be included in the Proposal for a Programme, which is an obligation from the Madrid Declaration or companies, as you will, and that such an initiative be given to us by the Chamber of Commerce and that the draft law on freedom of information, which we have today, as a proposal of two MPs, be placed on the benches. My opinion is that, by the end of our term of office, we should define ourselves by one document, whether it will be a declaration or 57 other documents from the Rules of Procedure, I do not have the text of the Rules of Procedure, to see exactly what the name would be, about accepting the White Paper, about which fellow Spahić spoke, I think we should bring this document, that we should simply then organise the work on the implementation of the White Paper, and this job is very large, that White Paper we have, and I don't think we should particularly explain what it means for the accession of our country and especially for our business organisations to the European Union. As far as information activities are concerned, I would suggest for an informative activity to discuss the information on the conditions and preparation for the donor conference, on this occasion we could consider, as Parliament, the realization of our obligations to hold a donor conference. We know that it has been extended in a certain way because of obligations we have not met and at the same time I think it is time for Parliament to get acquainted with projects that are running for a donor conference. Since we haven't had the opportunity before, when preparations for the conference, which has not been held, I think now we have time to consider, means, and how we have prepared and what we are running for a donor conference, or what projects we are looking for financial support for. And just one more suggestion to our college, the first point is, and Mr. Banjac was talking about it, election law. I would just remind myself that we did not finish the SDP draft election law, so it would be best for the Assembly and Secretary of the Council to review the minutes and, if it can, at the next session of the College to declare the unfinished vote on the SDP Bill Draft, so that it could go to the procedure, if at all otherwise, then even with the law to prepare the working group on which Mr Banjac spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5809	Okay. You'll get information about all of that. I only owe a few explanations here. The work programme we are now offering has been delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers. So far we have not received any information, so we believe that he, as he is, can go here, that there are no objections to him, in fact, and that we believe that such is real. Secondly, please don't overrun us with suggestions, because then we don't have a real chance of doing what we're proposing, and third, finally, to submit the proposals in writing and then you'll get an answer later.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5810	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, and I am pleased that after several months of political games with the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would also say with BiH, we have set out more intensively in this House of BiH, or the House of Representatives, to begin real work on what BiH is. I, in that respect, think a new era has begun in this business. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives today has a Work Programme and I would say that there are things that we have here, which have already been adopted in the House of Representatives. What I want, however, especially to point out is a few things. First of all, I think it is extremely important that, I would say, we encourage the Office of the High Representative, who took on the obligation, the preparation of the law on the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the administration, the administrative disputes of the Criminal Law of BiH, that as soon as possible we come to the text of these laws, so that we can consider them at the House of Representatives. 58 Secondly, as counterpart Muminagić has already said, we already have some laws already in the parliamentary procedure, these are the Law on Information, Freedom of Information, and it seems to me that he could already enter as a point in the Work Programme. I would also underline the obligation of the Brussels Declaration, which is the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, which is an obligation that we should put on the agenda to increase the freedom of citizens in BiH. It seems particularly significant to me, under point 11, information on the conduct of Annex 7. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. I think it's a well-planned time September, so this is the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees that can prepare one quality information. I would like the new ministry, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, to take responsibility in the affairs of the return of people, or the implementation of Annex 7. The General Framework Agreement for Peace, because we have witnessed that it has been largely so far, and so it has been shown entity jurisdiction, perhaps even lower. We have the law we adopted. I hope that this ministry will work intensively over the summer, so that it can prepare us this information which, I would say, is crucial in relation to the international community's views lately, and especially on a new, quality return to BiH cities. Of course, I'd say two things for the end. First, in an already common way, it has been said that proposals and initiatives of MPs coming into parliamentary procedure will be discussed. However, gentlemen from the College, on November 22, 1999, a group of representatives of this home, sent an initiative to initiate a procedure for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to bring BiH's Constitution into line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Also, in 8.12.1999, two MPs, Mr Spahić and I launched an initiative to amend and supplement the BiH Constitution, in certain areas, as listed. I want these initiatives not to be treated in the usual way that all initiatives and proposals will be considered, but to be explicitly mentioned, as already existing initiatives in the House of Representatives' Work Proposal. That, therefore, I want their place to be located precisely, and especially in the context of the Constitutional Court Decision, which I know of course has not yet been published in the Official Journal. However, we at the House of Representatives should go to meet, I would say, possible implementation of such a decision. I think these two initiatives are going that way. And last but not least, one technical thing. When it comes to information in parliament, I have to say that I have not seen that in any body of the BiH state there is something that would be called vadecum or I don't know, some book of institutions, members, address, telephones, and everything else necessary for one country, as some kind of x-ray of state or entity, but it doesn't have to, as a book, be useful to foreigners, domestic people and that would be some kind of seal of some time, like this time. I don't think that's much of a cost, and that book should really be done in this year 2000. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5811	Thank you very much, I think this is a quality suggestion we're going to try to consider.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5812	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow Members and, of course, ministers of the new Council of Ministers. Mrs. Suada first felt the burden of such a massive Ministerial advice, because she barely came to the pay phone, when everyone owned here, but that's not why I, here, don't take advantage of this opportunity and really, truly congratulate them and wish them successful work and good teamwork. When it comes to the proposal, or the programme of work of the Representative Council by 2000, I would ask you, fellow Members, to come from what is real that we can do by the end of 2000. Here is the proposal for almost 40 legislative projects, if you consider that some are already adopted, so we should adopt 30 new legal projects. If you consider that August is scheduled for holidays and if you consider that October will be the central month for pre-election activity, for November, there will be only two active months left for work. When you suggest new things, keep that in mind. One more fact needs to be added to all of this. Today, the Kolegijum decided to propose to both councils a group of experts working on a new draft of a permanent electoral law during the day. In Strasbourg, it is said unequivocally, we will no longer come to BiH and discuss admission to permanent membership in the Council of Europe, until the BiH Assembly adopts a permanent electoral law. I am stressing the BiH Assembly here. The Council of Europe will not pass any electoral law that has not adopted the BiH Assembly. And for that, here, I support this present conclusion of the College. There is a willingness by the Kolegijum and by the majority of the political parties participating in this assembly to consider, by emergency procedure, a new draft electoral law, and if we finish this procedure in July, then it will be the most successful month of work of this home and this second home. So if we just do that job in July, then it's a big deal, then we're left with about 29-30 laws for September. If we realize what is proposed here, it will again be a very effective period of work of the Representative Council. Here I would only support what Ms. Suada has said that, possibly, some laws that have already been under consideration, which are also needed for the functioning of the Council of Ministers, to come sooner than provided for by this draft of the Work Programme, and my proposal is that at the end of this proposal, or this programme, there will be one sentence in which, in some cases, the Assembly will consider other issues which are of particular interest to BiH, if they come as such in the coming month, for the next 2-3 months. I note, elections are in November. November and December will be an empty walk, or better to say, in November and December will be the time to establish a new assembly, so don't count it as a working period, and that new assembly will, of course, make its new programme. So my suggestion is to accept this proposal. That the Representative Council is obliged to consider the draft, the new draft of the permanent electoral law, and I repeat again, in the end, another 60 sentences by which the assembly will assume obligations, that some of the matters that are urgent, be put on the agenda by November, we speak until November.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5813	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić, we have this very formulation in the previous agenda programme, and it's perfectly normal for everything to be priorityd to be in the work programme.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5814	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, today we have the honor of having the Council of Ministers in full formation and I am taking the opportunity to congratulate them on the election. I hope that we will have this composition at Parliament's meetings in the future, and that gives us the right and hope that we can put ourselves and more serious tasks. When the work programme is a parliamentary home, because I hope that the Council of Ministers of BiH, in full session, will be able to prepare what we bring here as a programme, or what we give them on the mission. That's why I support this attitude. The work programme, we were in early July last year, if you remember, we adopted the programme at the end of the year, and that's another sign that we can do a lot more than we did last year. I think it is good that the priority is put on the electoral law and the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH gives a new quality in the preparation of the electoral law and I hope that we will adopt it and that it will give us new quality and new hopes that this electoral law will bring this assembly to the proposal, normally, as it should be. However, I would like to set up, to remind us of some of the obligations made here in preamble, and this is about the Madrid conference. After the Madrid conference, we had certain obligations, from the Madrid Conference of Obligations, which we had in the last program, and here I don't see them in this program. It is the key programmes, in my opinion, of the laws in the field of transport, that is the obligation from the Madrid Conference, the postal law, the energy law, and especially when it comes to this latest decision by the BiH Council of Ministers, I think it is the passport law. I think the Passport Act should be found in this program. So, with the support of such a programme, I suggest that it be complemented by the necessary laws in the field of transport, laws in the field of energy, postage and passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5815	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić, then Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5816	Speakers, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, allow me to present five concrete proposals to supplement the work programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Some of these proposals are already supported, presented in discussions by some fellow MPs and MPs, but allow me to support as the first proposal what Mr Rasim Kadić said, to bring an initiative to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, I think this issue is extremely relevant. The SDP MPs' club, supported by MPs Rasim Kadić and Ivo Lozančić, submitted an initiative, so a group of 61 MPs submitted the initiative. I do not see any reason that at this moment, where we are meeting with the agreement of the entity constitution, with the Constitution of BiH, that the debate on this crucial issue is not being conducted in this high house and I would therefore ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH and other institutions that participate in the preparation of materials and opinions, at the House of Representatives, to declare these initiatives, so that we can conduct a credible debate on this issue. My second suggestion for the addition of the draft work programme is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. My colleague Divković and I submitted such an initiative more than a year and a half ago. It is defined as a commitment by the New York declaration, it has been defined as a decision by the BiH presidency. Several times it has been prevented from coming to the agenda, and several times it has been blocked by the work of certain MPs. I think that after the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, after the Council of Ministers, which is filled with personnel, who, behold, have sworn here to fight for human rights, this law should not be asked, that every citizen can be defined as a passport with the name of BiH, given all this is said. My third proposal concerns the Freedom of Information Act in BiH. We are witnessing that this period of action, state, public authorities, is very non-transparent, that we, as MPs/allegates, find it difficult to get information about the financial and other activities of the state authorities. Just remember how much effort we had to make to get to the basic data, how much and who took millions of marks about the Promdej Bank affair, I don't know, or I don't know, the situation about the work of some services in RS, about listening here in some services, which don't provide a transparent report on financial and other business, I mean PTT and elektroprivreda, and I don't list. In any case, I think that, according to the Madrid Declaration, the political parties' definitions, in BiH's political life, the Freedom of Information Act, and the availability of all data, from the public-state bodies' activities, except for those exceptions provided for in each civilised state, should be found on the agenda of this high house. My fourth proposal is the Sports Act. You are witnessing that even parliamentary congregations, representative homes, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is being interrupted because of sports. Sports is very important. We are witnessing that, in the Olympic year, we have the first time out of the BiH team, a single team, the efforts of sports workers from all alliances and RS and alliances operating in the Federation of BiH, to provide athletes with adequate international participation and representation in team and representative selections, as well as the need to regulate organisations of significant sports events. We are such a law, as a group of MPs from the RS and the Federation of BiH, a party based both in the RS and in the Federation of BiH, submitted to this high house, and I believe that it should certainly be the basis for resolving this important problem, especially in the context of the establishment of the Human Rights Ministry, they are particularly pleased that Mr Špirić, who has already stood out in the area, will also be able to say his position there. My fifth proposal is to protect the business obligation, that it cannot prejudge the statement of this high house. This high house did not complete a statement on the Law on Elections, which was submitted in the form of a draft and in the form of a proposal by the SDP MPs' Club. We did not want every time, for every session to insist, it is surprising for us that there is no agenda for this congregation. The pre-judication would be if a task force for lawmaking had now been established, when 62 statements on the Law on Elections submitted by the SDP MPs' Club have not been completed. I note this so much before the law received the necessary majority in the House of Representatives, but did not get an entity majority, that it is currently at an agreement and that unlike the proposal proposed by Mr Drago Ljubičić, the OSCE expert group, the OHR, passed that first instance. I think we're creating a new environment. The basic debate and remarks on our law, if you remember, were topics, issues that have been resolved, in my personal opinion, a good part of the Constitutional Court's decision not to stand in the way of this draft, i.e. the law on elections, being the basis for a quality law on elections that will adopt this House of High House, that is, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and thus finally open the way to European integration and the end of BiH's isolation into Euro-Atlantic integration, which has been going on for years now, and that I am not repeating BiH's whereabouts at this point. Thank you. I ask that all these five proposals be made by the House of Representatives in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure, with my personal protest, why we are working in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure and why the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives has not been published yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5817	Mr. Mirko Banjac has an netačan quote, and then, Mr. Malkić has a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5818	Dear gentlemen, the public works, on several occasions today, abuses the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which reputed representatives of the two nations. If, gentlemen, you think BiH's future is in such a relationship with the representatives of one or the other or third people, you should be happy. I think that everything that goes on with the voting principle has extremely dangerous consequences for BiH. So, gentlemen, you have to understand, that the voting mechanism has given a lot of accidents, you will do more. It's not good. They know, look how they know who they are. Great, look how they're picking up. And I think you have to understand that further procedures in implementing that decision have to go through entity parliaments. You must respect democracy, gentlemen, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5819	I assume the replica has Spahić, so Tokić. Do you have an argument or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5820	Since it is not about recognition, but only one position, there is one principle that is recorded in BiH in the Constitution, as well as in every constitution of a democratic state that claims to have parliamentary democracy, not some other kind of democracy. There are no parties, no peoples, yet these democracies have not been able to break through, because there are some rules of world and international. Under 1. In the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, according to the Constitution of BiH, which we all swear, there is no debate, especially what needs to wait today, as far as I know, for 63 to be announced by Mr Begić, as president, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. It will be published and normal within three months on the agenda. It didn't occur to me to suggest this in the work programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I didn't want to open the debate at all, I just drew attention to the fact that the initiative of the 12th month and the one from 11. There, which is legitimate, according to the provisional rules of procedure, must be on the agenda of the assembly's work programme, because it is the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It can be accepted, it can be refused, but it must simply be placed on the agenda. That's the rules of procedure. As for the vote, to be quite correct, the Constitutional Court of BiH, as well as any state institution, because of the retention of dignity, is not about any voting, there is a procedure in which it is not voted, it is not revoted, but it will normally explain the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH and, normally, follow another procedure, which will come, will go legitimately and I think that this should not be called into question at all, open the debate. We don't need to use this to change the course we're taking today. We have the Council of Ministers of BiH. I suggested precisely. When we make all proposals today, since it is open to the provisional rules of procedure, to give all proposals to the programme, to the BiH Council of Ministers to respond to what it is able to prepare in its jurisdiction and to make it mandatory for us to respond. There can't be an answer to what we got from Mr. Banjac. There was no response to the proposal, so this is acceptable, and everything else you suggest is unacceptable. It is like my esteemed colleague Dokić, who always nicely explains it, has the last sentence, everything that is not, if Bog does, will be. Well, there isn't, all that isn't, if Bog does, it will be. If the interim Rules of Procedure voted for by counterpart Dokić, and I, and all of us together, regulated the rules of relations towards the MPs' initiative, it must be respected. There's no open discussion here again. It goes simply by respecting Parliament's rules of procedure. That's what I wanted to draw attention to. So I insist that we do not conclude this, and now we are going to push through what we can do in 2-3 months, so the new parliament will adopt a new programme. The BiH Parliament is one institution that has only this electoral period when it replaces MPs, or remains the same, and that depends on the will of citizens, and it does not depend on it, today we will end something, so we will have a new programme, so all of Jovo is not going to go. So this is my reaction, purely technical, and you don't need to get Mr. Banjac excited about it. This will come on the agenda, according to the constitutional category's logic, which says it is not being discussed, but also being carried out secondly, is not a question of the character of internal relations at the BiH Constitutional Court, but, I guess, at the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5821	Please, if you have a replica, you know how long it can last. I'll open the debate later, Mr. Malkić, be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5822	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs/amendees, I am most lightly surprised that one of the chairmans of the House of Representatives is most directly contesting the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH and a member of the Constitution that says "The decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH are final and binding". Gentlemen, this is all going into a stenogram and this is going to be history. Because of this stenogram and because of this history and because of this circus that, with the 64 highest institution of the BiH state, Banjac is trying to implement, I am asking you to plead with Mr Banjac as a member of the College of this higher home. I didn't vote for it then. You raise your hands again, but, according to the Rules of Procedure, please join this vote. This is embarrassing. This gymnastics that is made from the constitutional justice system, from human rights, and from the people who are to represent this congregation, sitting here on behalf of this congregation. I, on behalf of the SDP, want to fence myself from it and ask that Mr Banjac be relieved of his post as the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5823	I've said it before, and that's what I'm saying. I watch who's talking first, then what's he saying and as far as it goes, sir, you don't have to yell, I understand your mental circuit. I know you're excited, I know you are, and it's human, but calm down, you don't have to yell, you hear, and it's good to hear. First, don't give me what I didn't say. I have not disputed the decision for one moment, but I have said that there is a procedure in its implementation, dear sir, and respect that. You're asking for a vote of confidence, that's your business. First, I don't mind, it's legal and I don't mind and don't bother putting something in my mouth I didn't say. I said there was a procedure, a constitutional procedure of implementation, and if someone is in violation of this moment, then it's you. Don't bother putting it in someone else's mouth, you won't be able to. So I ask once again to read the stenogram, what I said, to be delivered to all MPs, and I pity you, MP, for your hard words. Because you're not for the other one.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5824	This is where I made the mistake, and I won't do it anymore. Mr. Čaršimamović, Mr. Dokić, and Mr. Neimarlija, well, Mr. Tokić, if you have a line, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5825	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members, I express the most explicit, personal disdain over the way in which the Vice-President, Mr Banjac, participated in the first part of this session, in its work, and because of the way he started to participate today. Since Mr. Banjac has requested that his stenogram be delivered now, I would ask the appropriate congregation service to provide us with the number of reports from Mr. Banjac from the previous work of this assembly. And as this work looked like, it won't be hard for you to remember, because today's counterpart, Banjac, too, started, with the first inappropriate throw from the scene, on the other hand, using inappropriate words. I've been forced twice to react from the scene, for words that don't... His first presentation began by repeating twice the word “must”, sent to us by the MPs. Secondly, the session, especially because of the discussion of counterparts Banjac and colleagues in Tokić, looked like she looked and you certainly remember, and I am holding a responsible colleague of Banjac for this and reminding you of all these statements, completely inappropriate, inappropriate, feelings that my colleague Banjac was constantly expressing. If he likes the MP, if he doesn't like it, if he doesn't like it, if he doesn't like it, completely inappropriately and inappropriately, he's on his way today, and therefore I ask, or I call on my colleague Banjac, 65 first, to spare us the jumps, to include us in Parliament's work from the post. Secondly, to spare us completely for us irrelevant, absolutely, and relevant statements about your feelings. He has the right to speak, and I believe that we are all very ready to hear his views. We're not interested in feelings. To spare us these statements, with these imperative demands. Nothing has to be done here, you know, and finally, I ask my fellow Banjac to respect the fact that he's not chairing home. I had an understanding of the way he included all this spectrum and feelings and everything else at the time when he chaired this house. I had an understanding because I know this is a very delicate obligation, given the circumstances in which we work, but I am afraid, it has been a very long time, my colleague Banjac has not realized at all that he is not the chairman, that his colleague Skopljak is the chairman of this house, so in that sense, I call on my fellow Banjac to respect this and spare us what we had earlier, especially in the first part of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5826	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. I'm asking you to help me. I can only preside, if I'm going to do my job. We have Mr. Čaršimamović. Did you give up? Yes, it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5827	I would ask you, indeed, in addition to such a hot atmosphere around this room that we do not create such a hot atmosphere here in the O.R. without need. I'm afraid we'll figure it out before the time. We need to get back to the agenda. We went far from the agenda. In that context, I would like to remind those who have led to such an atmosphere that the BiH Constitutional Court has not changed the BiH Constitution. Our obligations are under the BiH Constitution, the Law on Elections in BiH will be based on the BiH Constitution. Which is why it is now necessary to create such a hot atmosphere before we start doing this Electoral Law, which I hope all MPs care about. In terms of overcoming this atmosphere, my proposal is next. To take a break now, that those who have proposed new laws, in relation to the Kolegijum proposal, which is unanimous, as we have heard, to consider once again whether to stay at their demands, or eventually give up, that this Service is ticking, those for whom it insists that they go forward in the procedure and that the Representative Council declares, first on the entire proposal of the Kolegijum, and then individually on each proposal of MPs who went today. I think that way we can end this debate and come, no matter how it is eventually adopted, to a very good work programme by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5828	Thank you very much. I think this is a correct debate and suggestion that we will try to adopt, if you will. But I must bring to an end all your reports. Mr. Kurtović has a brief, discussion, replica, I don't know exactly, we'll see. Then I ask Mr. Malkić, then Mrs. Rađević, then Mrs. Havel. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5829	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers of BiH, for known reasons, could not give its opinions and views on the proposed programme of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In some of the consultations we have now held, I would like to try to point out several important facts, with a request that they, in a sense, be installed, because they would, in fact, be just an improvement in what the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has already done at some previous sessions. It is true, in the preamble of this document, the Brussels Conference is also mentioned, i.e. the Brussels Declaration. However, the content of the work programme does not show that certain recommendations, made at the conference, remain a vacuum of statements from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly towards this very important conference and a very important document. On the other hand, at the previous session, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly also declared itself to be an important document, which is the action programme and the plan of activities proposed by the BiH Presidency, in terms of and in order to prepare BiH for the start of negotiations with the EU, i.e. the plan of activities, measures, which we should do to obtain status and the right of negotiations with the EU with the first January. I therefore propose that we do not now go from one law to another, from one point to the other, perhaps at point 19th, or 10th, where the analytical and information activity is, to write "realisation of the activities given by the Peace Implementation Committee in BiH". This would include both the Madrid and the Brussels Declaration and create a space for the activities that arise from these two documents. The second thing I would suggest at point 19. Legislative activities, it's a material mistake. The law isn't about customs zones, it's the Free Zones Act. Free zones are in the jurisdiction of the state, and customs are in the jurisdiction of the entity. At point 27. The Standardisation Act, I propose that there be standardisation laws, because they include a broader set of legal solutions and frameworks to be done so that BiH can be a state that can normally carry out import-export activities, especially this is important from the point of view of export activities. Under this set of laws, we have already, together with the PAR programme and with OHR, prepared five laws, where, among other things, the accreditation law, and another part of the law should be passed, which would include so-called. protection of intellectual property, then the transparency law. There's already some activity going on about it. I hope that the draft of these laws will be presented very soon to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, via the BiH Council of Ministers. At the point, I'm sorry to go like this to point b. Analytical-information activity. Point 5. Study, making a study for the needs of the Stability Pact contract. It's probably a technical mistake, that we don't do this, that's what they're gonna offer us, and we're supposed to spend what they're giving us. So that's not what we do, it's what those who want to bring us into this integration process do. In point 6. The programme and activities to carry out the commitments made for the donor conference, I suggest that it be reformed, because this is something else, a proposal for the obligations BiH needs to fulfil, so that 67 of the next donor conference would be held, because in previous donor conferences, we did not make commitments, they were dictated by other conferences and other documents. I propose that in point 20 of the same chapter b, point 21 is added, which will be the implementation of the BiH Presidency's programme of activities, i.e. the action programme confirmed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as its action programme, concerning the start of BiH's Stabilisation and Association Treaty negotiations. In this way, we would have taken over the entire action programme adopted by this Parliament, not to be taxed on listing certain elements of it. In the end, there is something else that should probably be looked at in the activities so far, what has been done. I don't know if it's a common practice that what has been done may be thrown out of this work programme, since we are now bringing it or staying here, because there are some laws, there are some activities that have already been completed, and they are standing in this programme, regardless of what it is called “June 2000”. It's a pure thing to do now, and I don't know if it's supposed to be done or not. I also fully agree with Mr Spahić and part of the previous speakers, the strategy that should be done, but it is one job in which we must achieve a very high degree of consensus and respect between, both the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of the entity, and beyond, since the international community, as one of the guarantees of peace and reconstruction, wants to have a document, which will reflect all interests, not only the partial ones, but one beauty of all interests, which are in BiH. The strategy was made by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. I emphasized that. She is now on the level of consideration by experts, a university professor, I hope they will do so very quickly and offer a document that can be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5830	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debates. Mr. Malkić, Mrs. Rađević, Mrs. Havel, and Mrs. Perkanović. That's what we're going to round up, I hope, discuss and take a break, according to your wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5831	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished gentlemen, regardless of the great obligations and overcrowding of the programme, I ask that a set of laws, which regulate inter-entity and inter-state transport, enter the programme to regulate this anarchy that governs the provision of traffic services in the field of BiH and entities. I wouldn't list the laws, I'll deliver, if I have to in writing, and now I can list them, in writing, legal acts. I would also like to ask, i.e. to enter into the Programme a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents, as this is an obligation under the Madrid Conference and the Peace Implementation Council, and in New York, members of the BiH presidency signed their agreement on single travel documents. Also, it is necessary, since we want the state to be normal, not the state of the patient, that at the state level we have a regulated Sport Act and that we have the Red Cross/Cross Act. I was going to comment on these comments, which went, the replicas, I'm going to lose it. I hope this gets into the House of Representatives' work programme. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5832	Thank you very much, Mr. Malkić, Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5833	Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the chairman, allow me, at the beginning, to take advantage of this payphone to congratulate the definitely appointed members of the BiH Council of Ministers and especially today's statement, or oaths, but with that card, I would ask them to, at least from time to time, recall the words they said here today, especially when they said they would respect the Dayton Agreement. As for the agenda point we're discussing, I'd like to say next. Since all fellow MPs, who have come out with different proposals so far, it is common to all proposals, that no one has suggested that anything be left out or delayed from the proposed work proposal. I think it can be concluded that the proposed work programme, as it is, for everything is acceptable, and I suggest that, when the debate is over, really in the first part of the vote, we vote for this proposed proposal, and then all the proposals offered here for this speaker are discussed. I want to say the following about them. With most of these suggestions, I personally, speak for myself, agree to enter the work programme, with someone not at all at all. But indeed, the promoters forgot the fact that it's simply impossible, if we were just a voting machine, and that from session to session only five, six we're just voting, this could not be done in the mandate, which we have, it's really too ambitious to put all of this into the work programme, I have two reasons why I won't vote for most of these proposals, I'm speaking for myself, it's one thing because it's really illusory to expect them to be achieved, and the other thing is that I'm absolutely against them. I would also like to express my opinion here that I will explicitly be against the fact that any initiative to change the BiH Constitution or any formulation of the work programme, which concerns the Constitutional Court Decision, enters into the work programme, I will be against it for the following reasons, because the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, in practice, does not yet exist, only for the means of information to learn about it. Here, even the promoters themselves said that only today will it be officially announced, and from what we have learned, it has been brought in such a way that my people have no influence or participation in this, and I can't really vote for it. To be worse, the attitude of my people is known, and the decision is the opposite. However, if the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court must be respected, the time in the future will show what will happen. I don't want to discuss it, I just want to say that I will vote against it personally, and I only speak for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5834	Here you go, but a quick question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5835	I said very precisely that I expect the procedure to be in accordance with the Constitution and I did not participate in the way in which the polemics were guided around it, 69, understanding a completely different approach. I am now surprised that Mrs. Rađević has two ways of voting, in the name of my people, so she expressed herself, and in her personal name. As far as I know, there are only party representatives, and there are parties, whether they are large or small, in which there are parts of every nation and every minority in BiH, so that one pluralism, I ask you, if you can, just to explain how you can say, on behalf of the entire people in the House of Representatives, you will or will not, and then every honor in a correction in your own name, that is meant, I don't even need to talk about it, but I no longer understand where this debate is going, when we talk about the Work Programme. This is a work programme, and it is known that the constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH will come when it is on the agenda, whether we put on a work programme or not, and the initiatives we gave in November and December must be on the agenda, and they can be rejected, but cannot be thrown out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5836	I asked the same question when someone comes out here for a pay phone, when they don't stick to the agenda, if you will, help me, if you won't, then I can't help myself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5837	Here, I'll give my colleague Spahić a quick answer. I was delegated by one of the parties to the list of voters. After being elected, I represent citizens of RS, people and citizens of RS. No more members and sympathisers of his party, the interest of the RS, and then that means the state whose entity it is, I guess, that's not what I should stress. Otherwise, I have never used the term “my people”, I said citizens, people, voters, etc. I have now used the term solely because the two judges of the BiH Constitutional Court, representatives of the Serb people from RS, are in the constitutional court of BiH. I was talking about their participation and their decision-making, and that's why I told my people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5838	Thank you very much, Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5839	I would like to congratulate you, however, and I hope that we will see the results of this new council very quickly. I'll be very brief, otherwise I've always been short. I'd like to say that this program of work, offered as it is, accepted by all MPs, is a general conclusion, and I think we all agree on this. We received this as a proposal, and I think that all the MPs who delivered their suggestions and suggestions here today should have already delivered written amendments for today's session. In that sense, I think this debate is now turning into a draft debate, and I would ask you to determine that. Personally, I think there's been a lot of good suggestions. There have been suggestions that, of course, I would disagree with and a certain number of MPs feel the same way. I think that a number of proposals could be accepted, but already this proposal is so large and so, let me say, good that we should adopt it, and in a walk later, as proposed by the Council of 70 BiH Ministers, we should continue to put on the agenda, if we can all be able to discuss what we can discuss. I don't think we should owe this debate any further. I think we should finish the debate on this proposal, of course, we'll respect the views and opinions of all the MPs, but I'd like to ask you for a little more tolerance. I think that we should bring this work programme to this session today, even if we should, and with some minor remarks and suggestions to be incorporated into this proposal, and in that sense, I have a concrete proposal. Mr. Kurtović came out with the essence of all these proposals he has made so far, and I think we should support what Mr. Kurtović said, of course, only he finally said that he refers to those parts of the work programme that we have already done. Should they stay in the work programme or not? I think that we should stay in the work programme and indicate that we have already done and brought this, therefore, that this work programme remains complete and those proposals that Mr Kurtović made to adopt and deliver today such a proposal as is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5840	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5841	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, distinguished guests. As far as the work programme is concerned, I am merely giving importance to the Electoral Law, which is the first, most necessary law to be passed, among the first. Two, I give priority to using and protecting the name BiH. Since recently, for the last year and more, on the scene of abuse of the name BiH, especially from the Federation of BiH, I think this law is very important to adopt, to know where and when to use and perform in front of BiH. Under the third, I would like to point to economic and social policy from the BiH institutions' domains, which is understandable precisely because of the economic situation and because of the population standards living day to day in increasingly difficult conditions. That would be from this. I am sorry, I must also point out here to address Mr. Tokić and Mr. Neimarlija, because of a discussion that is not democratic at all, it is not right to challenge people or any of us MPs the right to an opinion, the right to express our views on this speaker. We are often present here, exposed not only to discussions, but also to scenes by Mr. Tokić, and we did not comment in this way, as Mr. Tokić commented. He's earnestly advocated human rights. Mr. Tokić, what have you done about discrimination against a fugitive and displaced person, who has been discriminated against in the Privatisation Act, the right to privatise apartments that people have a right to housing? Have you done anything about it, and we are often here at the pay phone exposed to the tortures of your discussions that are heading towards how we individuals are facing him in one way or another or in that way or toward this congregation speaker. I think we all have the democratic right to say what we think, what we feel and what we want to say, and if we have the patience to listen to Mr. Tokić and Mr. Neimarlija, I think they should have the patience to listen, too. They don't have to appreciate what they're hearing. If they have counterarguments, they can make those arguments, but they can't in this way accuse certain MPs, please. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5842	Thank you very much. I'm asking you not to go in... neimarlija has an objection, so then Tokić, well, here, I'd be happy to, if you're going to answer, she called her name and last name.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5843	Without intending to pollemize anything, I had to react, because it was a false assumption, and I'm afraid of misunderstanding what I said. I said, of course, that, relying on the performances of my colleagues, Banajc has the right, and we all have the obligation to listen to his views, or his opinion, but for this parliament, I also said, no matter what my colleague Banjac feels and it is also very important that our colleague Banjac respects some order that is here, which in itself implies, which is that he speaks to us from this place. I was just talking about the right of my fellow Banjac to express his opinion and our obligation to listen to that opinion. I've never challenged anyone's right to an opinion. I challenge the right of people here to bother us with the expressions of their feelings for this or that MP, according to this or that performance, and of course I remain in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5844	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I would like to underline and beg for a statement of my proposal for confidence to Mr Banjac, given the direct challenge to the Constitution of BiH, that is, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and the interpretation of the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH inappropriately for those who sit in the House of Representatives, the College of the House of Representatives and have the authority to represent this high home. As far as the questions of the previous debate are concerned, I want to make it quite clear that my entire political engagement was based on full human rights, the possibility of people staying in their homes, and in this context I will only give two examples, related to the people for whom the lady and others have presided over for the past 10 years. Two examples. When in 1996, Krajišnik, SDS and radicals were carrying out systematic activity in Iliji, fearing, intimidation in Vogosca, Hadžići, that the people should leave...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5845	Don't...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5846	I answer the question he's asked. Mr. Chairman, you shouldn't have let that question be asked. I contributed to this Ilidža, with my friends, to the citizens of Serbian nationality and participated, that, in addition to what she did to the non-professional government of the Federation of BiH, as well as a statement by Izetbegović that it would be good to stay, and even better not to stay, I worked on the rest of these people and 72 opportunities to dispose of their private property. When all SDS, Radicals, Špirić, as a Drvarčanin, acted against the return of people to Drvar, I was both in Drvar and in Banja Luka and in Modrica and Bijeljina, in all places, acting to keep these troubled people and to return to their homes and to their private property and have fundamental human rights. Lastly, I have a lot of moral right, after 10 years, to say it's embarrassing that representatives of the SDS and radicals, after all their mentors, teachers and politics, without distancing themselves to that policy, are giving lessons here on human rights. I won't allow it, the rest of the buyrum, vote for Banjac again and for the Tuševljak, I personally won't, with a full moral...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5847	Mr. Banjac first. I'll read to you how you called, please. Mr. Banjac, Mrs. Perkanović, Mrs. Jovanović, and then Rađević...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5848	This is about the relationship you've heard. I don't dispute that relationship, he's like that, and it's good to hear it behind this pay phone. And those who dispute the right to speak, the right to give an opinion and that is their democracy and be their democracy. To vote on my trust and I demand, vote, gentlemen, but you won't be able to do without the gentlemen of the RS, and when they want to, I won't be interested in the other side. So you know, Mr. Tokić, you won't be able to do without a gentleman from the RS. Well, what can I do for you and after November you'll see. Secondly, I ask you, I want to share a stenogram, because this is not a matter, I repeat again, here again, I repeat, the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court was made by revote because the representatives of a nation, which is Serbian, which, according to the way the BiH Constitutional Court is established, is where people, two Srbin, according to the way it was built, have not voted in favour of that decision. I say none of them again. For me, it is a revote and I repeat it once more, and the implementation of that decision, gentlemen, is in accordance with the Constitution and will be seen what its implementation will be and what it will be in accordance with the Constitution. What you want to vote for the statement, vote as much as you want, but, remember, this is reality. And I personally want no one to vote, and no one to Majorise anyone, and no one to threaten anyone, and I ask you, it's high time, and once again, I will leave the session every time Mr. Tokić, faceless and shamelessly, uses someone else's names, no matter who these people are, no matter how much credit they deserve, it will appreciate history and I agree, and I am no one but Mirko Banjac, with an absolute name and a last name and integrity of a person, and if in future, Mr. MP, you mark me so, it is your right and yours is a relationship to the MPs and to this assembly, let it be on your face.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5849	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Perkanović, Mrs. Jovanović, and then Mrs. Rađević, and then I round up the debate, because this really doesn't make any sense this way. Then I'm taking a half-hour break. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5850	Mr. Tokić, I asked a specific question. Since the SDP participated in making such a decision, the adoption of such a law, in fact to vote this law on the privatisation of dwellings and one of the points of the Law, literally, brings discrimination and co-operation with the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons in BiH, where returnees, refugees and displaced persons do not have the same rights as the rest of the population and citizens in the Federation of BiH. They don't have the right to buy an apartment right away, but they have to spend two years in an apartment to get the right to buy apartments. There, that was that particular question, and you went with the answers that were far away from this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5851	I believe that services will be able to provide concrete answers to such questions, so please refrain in this regard.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5852	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the diluted Council of Ministers, I congratulate you, I'm sorry if one of the photographers didn't take that joint photo at first, so that we have a memory and memory. A little remark. I would ask that immediately after the break we plead on the proposed program of our work, that everything we've done in the last seven months, six months of the preceding, come to an end, to do the maximum, to make time useful, not like so far. I really don't want to mention the words spoken by my neighbor on the other side of Majevica, colleagues, MP Tokić, gymnastics, this. The difference today, compared to the previous one, is just the path that's changed, now you're coming from the other side for the pay phone. The people you mention and you keep coming back ten years ago, I'm neither SDS nor radical. I am disappointed with your program, if I had heard what the SDP was going to do in 2010 for this year and a half, I would have been pleased, as an MP. You're always back in the '90s. What did you do, here, I have as my first neighbors, a question for you, May 15, 1992, in Tuzla. If you haven't watched TV or cheered, you haven't even helped those people. I will be with you, when you launch the initiative, as a multiethnic party, with those people who died in Brcanska Malta on May 15th, raising the mark, like those who died on May 25th, so we can pay them all our respects. Then I'll believe in your advanced program. In all this until now, what you've been saying, as a man and an MP, I'm very disappointed, because of all the generations that will live in what you create for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5853	I beg you once again, let us direct the debate. Mrs. Rađević, Mrs. Špirić, Tokić, and I am rounding up the debate here. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5854	I want to say two things to Mr. Tokić. The first one is completely opposite of my colleague Banjac, thank you when you mention some people and I'm proud to mention them and then imagine myself like this, so I'm sorry that I only joined that party in 1995, I'm really sorry. Secondly, Mr. Tokić, when you were helping them, I'm building up, and I may not say the exact word, to those poor people who feared Ilidža, when you helped them, you see how much trust they had in you, so they haven't given you a single vote since then, and let me bring out one short memory of those days. On the television diary that calls itself TVBiH, there was a sentence from the director and editor of the diary, the picture depicted the interior of a Serbian house in Vogosca, and the comment was: "The last thing they wanted to do was rob property".
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5855	I beg you, however, let's remain dignified. Mr. Špirić, then Mr. Tokić and then no more applications, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5856	Gentlemen, distinguished guests, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I will, of course, use this right of my own, even today as an MP to say a few things. I don't think there was any reason for me to go out, that I wasn't mentioned a few times, and whenever I'm mentioned for no reason, I'm going to stand up and say a few sentences. I think it would be good to organise a fun show if Mr Tokić participated in it and should not use the valuable time of the parliamentary debate on the interest of BiH citizens. Mr. Tokić is absolutely right, whenever he wishes, whenever a television house is interested in performing and discussing, that between MPs he organises it, I will be happy to respond and I think that the least respect for human and civil society first in BiH will depend on the statements of individuals, whether it is Tokić, Nikola Špirić or anyone else. Mr. Tokić forgets to say to the BiH public that Nikola Špirić has frozen party work from the moment of elections at the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, because it is impossible to run party campaigns and fight for the human rights of BiH citizens. He forgets to Tokić it as an argument in favour, and I think his walking around BiH, the stories he tells, if anyone gets caught, please let them vote, I don't mind, but I would ask Mr. Tokić to really spare the public of this kind of debate. Legislative and legitimate initiatives of every MP in the impeachment – shifts, etc., and I don't think it should be hesitated, should simply respond to the MP's request with concrete activity by the chairman, put it to the vote, and I don't think this is a good way to go, I just wanted to believe that we are in a position, not a particularly good way to mention the name of the newly elected BiH Council of Ministers, and I want as a member of that advice to react. I think it should be the task of all of us colleagues at the Council of Ministers to simply, supporting 75 of each other, so we achieve the programme of the Council of Ministers and it will be the best way of our work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5857	Thank you very much. We've worked so hard to see the Council of Ministers here, now that we've seen it here for the first time, in full composition, we haven't been very fair to them. So I invite them, however, to be in the whole assembly here in front of us. Mr. Tokić, and then I'll finish the hearing at point 3.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5858	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the past period has been as well illustrated as before in history, when false is told, and repeatedly, it becomes as acceptable to a certain number of uninformed people. I want to answer two questions. What have I done in this House? 14 legislative projects proposed and explained and brought to this high house, which is the basic function of each representative, unless some members of parliament have experienced the work in parliament to vote against all the laws they bear in their title "the law of BiH". Who voted? Mr. Špirić, of course, could be opposed to saying and explaining that after several hundred votes Mr. Špirić received in the local elections, it would be logical to put out the party, rather than hide behind an alleged human rights engagement in the new assembly of the BiH Council of Ministers. And as for the policy that the SDP represents and I am trying to ensure that it is present in the whole part of BiH, I would like to say that it is the party with the greatest legitimacy, and in this context is this picture of the Council of Ministers, whether taken until the November elections, is an image that does not represent the legitimate will of the citizens of BiH to what they have today, which they have received with the concept of power and given what they voted for in the previous local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5859	I ask you one more time, I doubt there will be questions for this kind of debate, I think this is neither correct nor concrete democratic debate we've been having, I'm speaking now for all of us. Therefore, I conclude this debate on point 3. I'm taking a half-hour break, and then we'll put on trust and vote everything you want. I thank you for your presence, so there are 24 of us, according to the Secretariat's report. [[PAUZA]] We can continue with the agenda. This is where you asked us to state who's to vote my colleague's mistrust, the chairman, Mr. Mirko Banjac. I have to put it to a vote, so I ask you who's for Mirko Banjac to vote for mistrust, who's for mistrust, asking you all? There's an MP here, sir, asking us to make a statement about it, and it's his right. 76 But you were not present. Please, then stay where you are. One of your colleagues explicitly asked for a vote of confidence or mistrust, therefore, I must put it to the vote, and you by voting confirm it for or against. We have to vote, please. Well, unfortunately, there are a lot of party propaganda, Mr. Bičakčić. You will be able to plead for or against.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5860	I must note that we, as I recall, had the agenda point of the proposal for the House of Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives' House of Representatives. I ask you first to plead, what is the basic task of this agenda point, and all the other conclusions regarding this agenda point, these are subsequent things, and I don't mind saying that, but please let's go in order, that this issue doesn't suddenly become, that it doesn't eat the essential thing, and that's the Work Programme of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5861	Okay, if it's okay with you. We have here, as far as the Work Programme is concerned, points three, a round discussion and hopefully...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5862	I'm sorry, can I have your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5864	As part of the debate, gentlemen, about the work programme, I'm asking for a vote of no confidence, and I wonder why? Because, as an MP, I went out and said what I said, and I asked him to get out of the stenogram and share it with all of you, and he wants to vote on it on my trust. I'm asking you to vote on my mistrust. I'm looking for it, and if there's a way that you can't have an opinion here, come forward, gentlemen. I can understand that I'm doing bad or good, that's no problem, but because I said that, I want to share it with you, because I'm going to share it with the press, I want to say that people's rights are being threatened here, right to me, as an MP, and I'm asking you to vote on mistrust, here, now I'm asking for it. I was speaking here, gentlemen, not as vice president, I am not speaking for this speaker as vice president, but speaking as a MP. Would you gentlemen like to vote on you, your trust or your mistrust, as an MP? Is this a practice that needs to be introduced? Go ahead, bring it in, no problem. I'm asking you to plead whatever you want. But I'm looking for, as a man, and I want to get into the record, in a stenogram, that one MP was voted on 77 confidence in another function because he said what he was thinking, and you know that my parliamentary immunity guarantees me that for this speaker, in connection with the debate, I can say what I mean, now I can't say it. Here, let me not. I beg you, Mr. Chairman, we are as members of the College absolutely equal and you are just one of the equals and I am asking and I am only asking you to tell me why I am being voted on on non-trust. I want to know. Because I said what I said. You want me to do it again one more time? I stand behind what I said and beg to be shared with all of you and the press. Please share.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5865	I'll put on the vote what you're looking for, but, please, make it correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5866	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, the BiH Council of Ministers, I think that one of the basic constitutional rights of MPs in this assembly is to deliver their opinion and that they cannot be prosecuted for it, of course, or morally persecuted. Of course, counterpart Banajc can have the right to say that in this state BiH cannot be nations in one entity or another constitutional entity, that is his right and his opinion. It is my opinion that we need to be constitutional and we need in this Parliament to be convinced on democratic principles of these objectives. The BiH Constitutional Court, which was formed by Dejtonom, made the decision, the verdict. On the authorities of the BiH state and of all other institutions, it is up to them to implement that decision, it would be good if we did not use this assembly and this pay phone for political promotions and for the waste of time, but to discuss it on the agenda and I do not think there is any reason to vote non-confidential to an MP who has a different opinion from my or someone else, and I do not think it is correct to put it on the agenda. It is correct that, perhaps in a closed session, we open the debate, as MPs, without journalists, as people, to open that topic and talk, to convince ourselves. I think we belong to a civilization that lived in a state that supported the sovereignty of peoples and entities, so we were in that state, that state fell apart. We will be participants in the reintegration of Balkan spaces, who will be in it, it is up to us again. Those who are aware of this may also contribute to the discussion and development of the situation, including those in Bosnia. Whoever doesn't know it, one day he'll join or he'll be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5867	Thank you very much. I have to put what you're looking for. Mr. Tokić, then Mrs. Perkanović, then Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5868	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am truly surprised that we have not received a stenogram of discussion and, apparently, the conclusion of this House of Representatives and that we have entered into a follow-up session in a way that interprets what is said, what is not said. For me, there is no dispute, I find logical, understandable and expected reactions of the SDA in this direction, but I would ask you, let's not change the thesis. Mr. 78 Banjac when he performed, before that he was named Deputy Chairman of the PSBiH House of Representatives, when he spoke, did not fence himself, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, to speak as an MP. Furthermore, I am not asking that Mr. Banjac be recalled as an MP, but that he be recalled as the chairman of the House of Representatives and I will repeat part of my discussion, as a man who will tomorrow be with Bičakčić and others from the concept of this authority to sit and represent this House of Representatives in front of international institutions, governments and parliaments, including discussions on a subject that is problematic. I think that in the College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, there cannot be a man who denies the Constitutional Court's decision, does not accept the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court and interprets it in a way that is opposed to both the Constitution and the work of the BiH Constitutional Court, and that was my discussion. So I ask that the stenogram arrive, share itself with all MPs, and that, accordingly, all of what Mr. Raščić is and what Mr. Bičakčić may have intended to say, be expressed through a vote of confidence at the House of Representatives. I, right to tell you, don't expect that love to break in this time of year, but I want, because of the stenogram, and there are no big words, because of history, to remain this intervention, because this House of Representatives has done a lot of things that are not appropriate, and this is a glass, this is a drop that has crossed the glass, that someone is challenging the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH and that is someone who represents this House of Representatives. I ask that the debate be interrupted until a stenogram arrives on this issue, so that Banjac will not interpret, on several occasions, the famous interpretation from his own discussion, in various ways, that we have a discussion that MPs may define themselves on their own conscience, and not according to, apparently, the party's projected tasks.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5869	You'll get, Mirko, a replica. Mr. Raščić, I'm just saying, there's a different discussion at the session then, and it's not exactly like that, you weren't there all the time and I know and you'll get explanations. I beg you, à propos Mr. Tokić. Mr. Tokić, we have made one, will you call it a gentlemanly, democratic, whatever you want, in a foreign life, you can do whatever you want, but, remember, it does not represent either of us BiH individually, but we said all three of us represent BiH, or, every time, please, I have to explain this as you wish, as you wish. Every time we put up with it, we take it in writing and adopt all three of them. Therefore, I take responsibility directly. Mrs. Perkanović, Mr. Rakić...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5870	Any decision taken contrary to the will of one of the constituent people may have legality, but it cannot have legitimacy, which means constitutionality, but rather the right. If you are here in favour of constitutionality, and in the very decision on constitutionality you deny the right of one nation to make that decision, then I see no constitutionality in the future, no right. So every decision made only by agreement, by consensus of three peoples, is correct and can be implemented. Any decision that destroys the will or desire of a whole nation, I think it is not positive for BiH 79 and its future. I'm afraid this isn't right what's going on with us today, and these interpretations aren't right. Instead of having the will and desire to discuss with us, which is why and what can be done in that direction, you here condemn our will and our rights. I don't think that's right. Mr. Tokić asked to vote on Mr. Banjac's mistrust. I don't see any reason here right now to not do it and we're starting to vote, I don't know, some uninformed people got involved here in a discussion, and I'm sorry they weren't right away at the beginning. If Mr. Tokić gives up such a request, I agree that we stop this discussion and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5871	Gentlemen, I have no intention of discussing this issue anymore, but please don't let Mr. Tokić here deceive the public and do it all the time. When I spoke of the program of work, then I was announced by a gentleman to speak for the Kolegijum, that's when I spoke for myself. When I went out to speak for this pay phone, I spoke as a MP and I will say that and I ask that a stenogram be delivered and I want to be delivered and by means of information, to see what is done here and what is allegedly a civil option in BiH. Let it be seen. I'll challenge everyone's opinion again if I have an argument. Let him challenge everyone of mine who has an argument. There's no problem, but, gentlemen, you're gonna have to go public with what you want here and ask to vote on my mistrust, as it is said, let it be voted, let it come in and it's written that it was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5872	We're having a discussion. I don't know how to run it. There's a hundred of you, a hundred opinions, a hundred wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5873	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, shall we listen for a moment? I can't figure out the way we're going into some political trap and we're having a debate that's not appropriate to both the Rules of Procedure and this Parliament. We've established the agenda and let us work on the agenda. Now it's the work programme of this house. If Mr. Tokić demanded it, let him remember and at the end of the agenda let him ask for it and we will extend the agenda, and we will vote on that item of the agenda and then we will vote on mistrust or trust, as is elected by Mr. Chairman or member of the College of this House. As an MP, I cannot accept this kind of debate, that instead of discussing the programme and exhausting ourselves on the programme and looking at our reality, what can we do in these two and a half working months, by the end of the year, but we are starting to make a political play, from which one should profit. I object, Mr. Chairman, to your provisional rules of procedure. We can't vote on this part of the agenda on anything else, it can be determined, the agenda can be expanded by the rules of procedure, if it comes out of the debate at this home. So let's end up doing it that way, and let's finish this point the way we're supposed to finish it. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5874	So I absolutely agree, if Mr. Tokić gives up, or makes a proposal for the agenda point, here, let's vote it out. If he asks for a vote of confidence and mistrust, you must state whether he has the right to do so or not. I neither give you a point of the agenda with nothing, nor your right to demand a statement of trust. Mr. Tokić, please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5875	I wouldn't want to specify the practice of acting so far. The previous chairman, as well as the current chairman, had repeatedly given priority to the statement on all issues raised by the MP during the debate. In that context, you can bypass, voting machine, a statement on this issue, but it wasn't a practice so far. The question I asked, I think it's very important. The issue of the work programme and the question that simply is being addressed instead of this long debate in a way that divides the Members of Parliament with a stenogram and that MPs, by their own conscience, declares their trust to the deputy chairman. If you wish, as a College, to avoid this vote, if Mr. Banjac wants to take forms, how he has not worked so far, to avoid a statement of this high house of trust, that is question number two, but I repeat, Mr. Banjac has insisted at least ten times in the practice of holding a session that every topic, every question, if the MP insists, is the subject of a plea. I insist this time not to state the reasons, but I've given them enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5876	Thank you very much. Here, indeed, I ask you to be correct. I was asked by Mr. Mirko Banjac to put this point of vote of confidence or mistrust to him personally to vote here and now it is not fair to say that he prevents it. Let the people see how we do. Who's in order to do it like this? I'm also personally dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5877	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, let's stick to, I'd say, the Rules of Procedure and we'll get out of this awkward situation, and there's a very clear matter. We have a proposal for one of the MPs, a proposal for a conclusion, the proposal is to vote on the confidence of Mr Mirko Banjac, in the position of the chairman of this house. So we'll get there first, and we'll have to get to the rules of procedure, make that conclusion clear. If the conclusion passes to vote on confidence, then we will vote on trust. If that conclusion doesn't go through, we won't vote and please, the matter is over. This is a proposal for a conclusion. It's not a new agenda item and it's not something to put on special. It's one of the conclusions of this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5878	Mr. Dokić, did you give up the debate? 81
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5879	I have nothing to say, but to ask you to stop these discussions, which have been interrupted... all this was too much and to harm. [[speaks from the place and is partially heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5880	So I'm asking you to stop this. I'm begging you, if you're answering... Since this is how it is, please, we are going to vote on Point 3, that is, the Work Programme of the Parliamentary House of BiH. This is my decision now, so if I make a mistake about the Rules of Procedure, then you try and sort it out. Mr. Tokić, what is it now?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5881	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5882	I don't mind if your proposal is for the vote to take place here, the vote of confidence or mistrust. I don't mind. If you'll excuse me, I'll lead, and if I don't, then I can't lead. As far as the work programme is concerned, we, like the College in full composition, have given you material on the benches. I hope you have this, since we are not complete today, we cannot plead on your proposals, i.e. the inclusion of any extension of the work programme according to what you have proposed here in the follow-up of this session, and therefore the first proposal will be in front of the College, therefore, of the kind of work program that you have, complete as you have received, I hope, in the materials, so I will ask you who is in favour of this programme of work as the College unanimously adopted. Who's in? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? I'm asking about the entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Only because of the stenogram, please, of the 30 present representatives, 24 voted in favour – the against voted 3. From the Federation of BiH, 11 voted in favour, RS 11 voted in favour. Therefore, this programme of work of the House of Representatives, as the College proposed, was adopted. We will make clear your suggestions, too, because the College cannot take a stand as it is. One member is missing, and because of that, according to the agreements and according to the representations, I said, otherwise, the state and all the interests of this society, we agreed to do it, indeed, like the College, or all three of them. So please, I hope you received the suggestions that you made in the discussions. There's a lot of them here. We need to make a statement about them, and we will begin the plea. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5883	Gentlemen, we have a faster version of not wasting our time here. There are a lot of things here that might be accepted, but a member of the College is missing, in the College, determined by consensus. We have two approaches. Let us now vote on each point, because we cannot take a stand in the name of the Kolegijum, because we lack a third man or wait until the next session to make a statement to the Kolegijum on each proposal, on those we accept, they become an integral part, so far it has been. That's how it's been so far, gentlemen. And those who do not accept it, and the Messengers do not give up, shall be heard of individually. So, to cut short, simply, if we're in favour of shortening the procedure, we can go individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5884	I'll take this as if you're not going to enter a plea without a third member, because you should have told us that you're delaying it for another session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5885	I don't have to postpone, it's just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5886	You should have told us this proposal before we began to plead. Since you're not, I think this is all in the same session and we need to plead and classify what we're meant to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5887	Ladies and gentlemen, just to save time, considering a lot of proposals and voting as a whole, so entity voting, I suggest the following. I suggest that the College in incomplete composition take a 15-minute break, call so-called. an extended college of party representatives and declares on all these proposals and that the proposal, which passes, gets the support of the majority, and then only votes on those points at which we disagree at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5888	I have no objection to this proposal, but we have to adopt it, but I'm asking you not to extend the matter now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5889	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Chairman, I wanted to ask you here as the chairman of this house. You initially told us that you had sent this work programme to the BiH Council of Ministers and that you had not received an answer, while Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that there was no reaction. That you thought, on that basis, that they were in agreement with the program that you suggested. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5890	Yeah, I'm so...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5891	I have a relatively good memory, so I can replicate it a few hours later. Now I'd like to remind you of something. After you left, you weren't, like Mr. Raščić was, so he introduced some new elements like removing the public from work, etc., I don't know what will be removed, when there is no public work at all. This is a very limited range, since there is no direct electronic transmission, perhaps this is the only parliament in the world that has no direct television transmission and has no public service, it is a minimum. Look at the working conditions of the press. By the way, Mr. Raščić, it's not very pleasant to take part in the debate when you have no idea what was going on at the session. As for the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Kurtović, in your absence, Mr. Chairman, if you failed to consult the third page of the contribution, he drew attention to the area of a.b. and a new point added to the legislative activities – an analytical and information activity and said what should be added in relation to point 2000-2004 of the economic development strategy. This is in some way negating the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in relation to our proposal for a programme, and I have suggested in my discussion that it is necessary that the programme and the possibilities for the implementation, preparation of laws and information and analytical materials, strategies, etc. determine our executive body, must have one, conditionally put, time out, because it's our executive body. It is the BiH Council of Ministers with the Constitution, which must be prepared and said, these 25 laws will be prepared. We can work on that and that dynamic, we can prepare 10 information materials, we can't or can't do this, it's real planning. That's serious planning. It is not serious that we should postpone today until the arrival of a third member of the Kolegijum, plead exclusively on these views, and some pass, and some do not pass, depending on the mood of our representatives here, because most, as precisely as it was found in the discussion, did not want to question at all the Programme that was proposed. Because we've already adopted this programme one three, four times in this House, it's just a repeat of that programme that was adopted last year, if I recall correctly, there's almost nothing new. It has only been replicated around the Madrid Declaration and Brussels, as Mr Kurtović pointed out. And finally, it is my opinion that such serious proposals as the MPs made, which have the same weight as the proposal given by the College, can't be beaten over the knee like this. He can't because there are things that are the rules of procedure. We have to split up. We have legislative activity, so we can discuss it, what we really need to do, have these conventions and this Peace Implementation Council, which was discussed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. We also have an analytical activity, which must enter, if it is under the Rules of Procedure, the first MP to propose and come to the agenda by procedure of 3 or 6 months. Therefore, you cannot now vote on the things that have been past the procedure. Imagine someone now refuses the debate, say, or here some relationship power new, says we won't strategy since 2000. - 2004 or we don't want economic and social policy. Ms. Mara Perkanović spoke very highly of it, as did the other MPs. 84 Therefore, I don't think it's an instructional move to beat up on this job. It would be correct or give a break, so that your professional service classifies these materials, laws, analytical activities, etc. Secondly, give the BiH Council of Ministers an opportunity to determine today during the day, since it is in a permanent session or tomorrow and to make a decision in the spirit of your recommendation. You said we'd be stuck all the time. We have one program, which was basically adopted, but we must make a professional determination according to every initiative of the Members. I ask that it be correct, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I wouldn't cut anything. I would like to link all these proposals, You, as chairman, propose a break, a statement of the relevant committees in Parliament, the Kolegijum, the Council of Ministers of BiH, but you have no right to push us, as we would say, in the voting procedure, which will lead to this, because the obvious things that we must adopt in the Rules of Procedure, which belong to the nature of affairs, which Mr Kurtović pointed out and which we disqualify today by our own will or by our own will. We have a rational conclusion, a program of work of the Assembly, you voted it, it was voted by those who voted for it. Those who opposed, were not against considering these matters, did not question this in the discussion, but I thought it was normal to determine according to each proposal by the Members correctly as well as the Kolegijum's proposal. You have just defended your integrity, as an MP, as a member of the Kolegijum, defend now, as chairman, integrity and share with us the responsibility and rights of the bill, the right of the proposal to the initiative, the right of the proposal to some document we ask of the Council of Ministers of BiH and you. You have services at your disposal, open the Rules of Procedure and find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5892	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Banjac has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5893	I don't know, gentlemen, what is the purpose of certain discussions, but I do know that they are exactly the opposite of the Interim Rules of Procedure, which we are working on so far. Please, what is it and in what parliamentary practice, that we send what we think we are about to install into the work programme to the Council of Ministers, that they can or can't say that, so that's underestimating this home. There's no talking about it, it's against the Rules of Procedure, then I didn't get it right, if I'm okay, I can tell you that's exactly what I'm saying here. Please, secondly, as regards Minister Kurtović's proposal, I can accept, as an MP, this proposal only if he is the Council of Ministers' position, who have the right to suggest to us what they think we should install in the programme, otherwise. Mr. Kurtović has no right, as minister, to suggest here what we will do. There is a Council of Ministers of BiH that decides by consensus, if what he has suggested is past the Council of Ministers, then I accept that we plead. There's no dispute here. Then we'll say whether or not we will. On the contrary, if they say what they want, what we offer, there's nothing of it. I don't want any part of this business. So, as far as this proposal is concerned, his fate is quite clear. If this is said to have been decided by the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think there should be a written document, and I know it doesn't exist, so I suggested that this should all be obtained 85 in one legal way. It's no mistake, and I think we can adopt a lot of things the way I suggested. And it is certain that the MP, Mrs Muminagić, is quite right when she said that it is our right to plead on every single point proposed here, that is absolutely correct. So is business. Just what Mr. Rasim Kadić said, he is right about the new rules of procedure, because he participated in his work, so he may have replaced it a little bit, that possibility exists in the new rules of procedure. There's no such thing as the old one. If there is, find it. Therefore, I ask you not to complicate, we have adopted a program that can be expanded and needs to be expanded. Let the BiH Council of Ministers take a position on these proposals of its minister and let us know, that's the way, gentlemen. Proposed MPs, we can plead either one way or another, as you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5894	Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Tokić, then Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5895	fellow Members of the Parliament, I would ask you to try more to turn to the essence of what our goal is. Look, not going into what's written in the Rules of Procedure, old or new, but the fact is that we would now go on, here, one of the variants, to vote individually each of these proposed laws. There are more of them than we've already adopted. I'll tell you right now, I'm not in a position to plead immediately, which means I'll be held back or I'll go outside, or I'll vote against, and there are some that I can adopt. The proposal to consider it is a good proposal. I would only suggest that the next session begin with this if the College were to declare itself, and not only the College, but also the Constitutional Commission, which would say what it is in the jurisdiction of this assembly, and what is not in the jurisdiction of this assembly, because I am not simply going to vote for or against what is not in our jurisdiction. On the other hand, if you take a closer look, there are suggestions here that overlap. We'll do one... if we vote now, and it's my feeling, and that's why I really urge us to accept the proposal, that the Kolegijum, that the Constitutional Commission consider these proposals, that they come out next time, to sum this up, that's certainly less, because I'm saying, there are the same things that overlap, there are similar, very similar ones that almost match, and that next time we finish that job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5896	Thank you very much, personally, I also think, let's be realistic. We have 44 of your proposals here that we should vote on. 44 times, and you know what that means. So if it's realistic I'm in, I'm not in, but I'm asking you to be rational and I agree that this should be sorted out and that at the next session we'll make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5897	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs - MPs, the final debate on each issue gets its result of the vote - the commitment, but what I think is bad in this House, are changes in the way and procedure of voting - statements. I don't really want to give a lesson, but everywhere, if the College was a proposal for a programme of work of the House of Representatives, then it was first to declare, conditionally speaking, amendments, additional proposals on the work programme and those proposals, logic, procedures, follow parliaments, those proposals that would be accepted, or in the statement of the House of Representatives or of the Proposer, would be an integral part of that proposal. Like this, we're just having a little scam. We voted, promising to make a statement about the supplements. There are a number of MPs who are against this kind of narrowed-down work programme, no additions. Yes, I claim that these procedures and voting have been deceived. There is a first statement everywhere, both the promoter and the House of Representatives on amendments to the laws, on additions and additional proposals, and then on a full proposal in the end. I would like, regardless of the differences, which are large, which, as far as politics, the future, the vision, bigger than Majevica, someone here mentioned Majevica. What Majevica? The Majevica is small, there are huge political differences here and I am proud of these differences, but regardless, we would have to work on the same procedure, and just before the question I raised, we would have to establish one practice. People, you change, like college, practice. It can be documented differently, we voted differently, we said differently, we differed depending on how it corresponded to the day-political interests or the inspiration of one of the people sitting in the College. That, in my opinion, is wrong. That's not correct. MPs in this House of Representatives, with such work, holding a session, always, and their initiatives, whatever they were, have always been, to be very simple in expression, have always been less important, and your roles and basic tasks both towards the Constitution and according to any rules of procedure that we have adopted, and yet we do not publish it, and in that Interim Rules of Procedure, is to allow MPial initiatives to come here and talk about them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5898	I hope you're not this time, that's an ugly thing to say, that expression, I think that the democratic debate here is represented, how fruitful it is, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5899	Dear gentlemen, I now wish to speak as a motionary, therefore, as a member of the Kolegijum. I think there's a lot of deception in old practice and I'm just talking about the tropics that are really true here, as Mr. MP said, some of them serve deceptions to manipulate the public. It should be known that we, as a House of Representatives, adopted a conclusion that all amendments must come before the beginning of the session, two days at least before the beginning of the session. Gentlemen, you have received this material on which the proposal stands. It is known that only amendments can be submitted to the proposal, no single amendment has arrived until the beginning of the session. Your Honor, sir, and now they're not amendments, they are now, and now they're not. Let me tell you, since this is not done, this is where the Kolegijum's good will to get to the quality program is being silenced and the work that's agreed on here is that the amendments are coming before the session. We didn't accept this now, and that's why there's a public break here to see how it isn't. I responsibly claim that no single amendment has come to the beginning of the session. But also, I think I need to respect the MPs' initiatives and that it can be done in quality and it must be done, and here, once again, if my fellow MP resents what I said, but here, and 87 now I say we have to respect and that we have a model, and that model is called through the annex program, which needs to pass through to the Kolegijum, the Constitutional Commission and we come, brother, to the solution. Whether we're talking about the program or the show. If it's about the program, here, we have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5900	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to replicate to Mr Spahić, who is the third in a series, who tried to make me an uninformed man of the things that were here. Unfortunately for him and unfortunately for me, this transmission is being transmitted in various ways, so believe me, satellite means are being used to transmit information to this congregation. So, I'm very well informed, unfortunately for you, what my wish is, since you're a culture man, I'm asking you to before you attack my personality, to remember that Latin that names are not very nice. You know that well. Nomina sun odyos, it is Latin, I think it was in first grade high school. As far as the public is concerned, I am not against the public of the work of this Parliament, but I am for one closed session, that we, as MPs, are talking about problems that we disagree on and that by the method of arguments we convince each other why one thing is good and why the other is not good. We have the right to do so, and I think we should use it right. Some people work on disintegration, some people work on integration. I think if we have the right arguments, and if we have a vision of what's coming to us, we can find adequate measures and adequate answers. Secondly, I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you have received notice from my office, that I had to be late for this assembly because of my previous commitments, and I think it's correct, and believe me, I've been informed of what happened in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5901	Mrs. Muminagić, is it a replica or a debate? Raščić, Muminagić, Kadić, and then Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5902	There's been a public deception talk here. I don't want to deceive the public either, but I don't want anyone to deceive me. I have an objection to having a session. If we are calling for the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver a statement in writing on our proposals. I think the same relationship should be according to the proposal. I, as an MP, have not received any statement from the Council of Ministers on these proposals. So, if we had one way to access the College's proposal, I guess there were all three of them, the same way we should approach the Council of Ministers' statement and other proposals that are under way, that would be a fair relationship. Secondly, before we move on to a statement, the chairman should tell us how the statement will be at the bottom of the agenda, and let's not vote out this proposal that we got, and then we'll agree to postpone this 88 for the next time. I don't mind if we postpone for the next time, but I can't accept that kind of work, because I feel deceived, and I've made an effort to prepare the proposals specifically for this session, and I haven't been in any of these proposals, nor have I questioned anyone's work. We did it on behalf of the delegates' club, no matter how many of us came out, I think there should be a correct relationship both with our proposals and in the same way we treat the college's proposals. I resent the way this agenda is handled.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5903	I'm asking you to, if we're not fooling around, I can't be maligned, but I can raise my voice, but I can't be maligned, I'm afraid. I must say that here, unfortunately, each time, the College's proposal has been put to your vote and said that each of your proposals will be at the polls and what's underprivileged and what's wrong with it. I'm asking you to really be correct with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5904	We were going to shorten the procedure, so it looks like we're going to extend it. First of all, as far as the amendment is concerned. Mr. Banjac, if the MPs didn't submit the amendments in time, which may be, conditionally speaking, their mistake, then to be open, you didn't stick to the Rules of Procedure either, because you accepted the debate about it, because you should have immediately stopped and been very principled and said, gentlemen, you were late with the amendments, it should have been 48 hours ago and ended like that, that's the first. But let's get back to the point. We have one text of the proposal for work that was adopted. We've got 44 points, which, conditionally speaking, we're arguing about. There is a good will of part of the College to consider from that 44 point, what it accepts to be an integral part of the work programme and then to come to a crucial point. What about what the College doesn't accept, because we end up on the agenda. When we make a statement about this and how we will plead, we must make a statement about what the College does not accept and does not become an integral part of the Work Programme proposal. By the way, a mild suggestion, or replica to Mr. Banjac. Although I do not think it was principled at the time, but at the time when there was no Mr. Pere Skopljak, two members of the College called on Mrs. Havel to temporarily, on behalf of the party nominated by Mr. Skopljak, meet at the College and thus agree. It may not be bad today, from Mr Genjac's party, that the College should temporarily withdraw for 20 minutes, to establish a unique position on this 44 issues and what becomes an integral part of the draft work programme, and that I hope, after that, a much smaller number of unaccepted proposals, the House of Representatives declares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5905	Please, we will accept anything you accept, or vote. If it's okay with you, I can put it to a vote. Will you put a man with us as a complement to the College, and let's get this done properly. If you won't, it's your will again. Is there anyone else to discuss? 89
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5906	Madam Chairman, will you allow me to say two sentences? Thank you very much. I'd just keep going, if Mr. Kadić listens to me, I wanted to keep thinking in his way, try to get out of this situation. So, the suggestion is to end this at the next session, so that the College will consider the proposals and what it accepts, it becomes an integral part of the programme, what it accepts will go to the Constitutional Commission, it will give an evaluation, and then we in the assembly, at the next session, will vote for it, accept or refuse. It's a path that does not threaten anyone's proposal, nobody's suggestion and the way out of this stalemate position. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to vote on this, so we can end this this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5907	To make this go away for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5908	Mr. Chairman, there's a misunderstanding here. This is about declaring the equal importance of the rapporteurs of the Kolegijum and each individual MP. From what I understand, Mr. Kadić only made one bypass, which Sidran would say, that he could continue to write songs and what would be most important, it is that if the gentlemen of the SDA Club have an interest in making some bypass with his representative, it is a special process. It's a shame that such a thing isn't regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Because, you know, when there's a Rules of Procedure, then you have rules of play, and when you have a President of the Constitutional Commission, then the President of the Constitutional Commission has to represent some principles that are palitative, like this, inspiring, but the question is how good it is, because tomorrow can be the law on succession in the BiH presidency, so we happen to have one member, say, Mr. Skopljak, and then what are we going to do... some member of the BiH presidency and so, if that's the law, so I read in the paper. As for Mr. Kurtović, Mr. Kurtović came out and said: "he has conducted the current consultations with the members of the BiH Council, who were here in full session, and on their behalf he makes some suggestions". I felt, since you all congratulated them on this full composition, that it was a correct approach to participate in Parliament's work. I did not question, of course, whether they will play a larger or smaller role in this proposal, but when people are there, normally to warn about certain things they must do based on what is precisely said to the BiH Council of Ministers, the Brussels conference is your priority, so put it down by parliament or not, you must exclusively realise it. There are five views you need to realise and I'll say it. As far as this Mr. Raščić is concerned, I told Mr. Raščić nothing else, but Mr. Skopljak. It is interesting that Mr. Raščić reacts without Mr. Skopljak responding, and I only warned that two MPs, you had experience from The Hague, so you have two options, that is that Mr. Rascic was absent in our debate, as you were absent when Mr. Kurtović spoke. I did not in any way harm the integrity and general information through satellite and his cabinet, Mr. Raščić. I'm pleased to have a well 90 equipped cabinets. It's a great honor if the session is monitored via satellite and to Mr. Čaršimamović, the recent director, I want to give my confession, because I think it's a general coverage of all possible means of monitoring, that's very good.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5909	Mr. Chairman, I'd like you to calm down first, me in front of the SDA MPs' club, first of all, to say that we're not happy with the way we're running the session, because its course changes from one minute to the next. The SDA MPs' club is very interested in creating a comprehensive programme of work of this Parliament, which means that, with what we have adopted, we need to find a way to solve the proposals of the other Members. I will remind you that before the break, you said that we would first vote in favour of the College's proposal, and after that, we would vote in favour of these proposals. I believe that this proposal by Mr Kadić is very acceptable, from the point of view of the SDA Members' Club, it is acceptable, that the College be seconded to the temporary replacement, to make a statement on acceptable proposals, and that after that, at today's session of votes for what the College did not accept, and therefore, on behalf of the SDA Members' Club, I request a 15-minute break for our agreement, and afterwards we will come to the College with a proposal on who will be in front of the SDA Members' Club of Parliament and for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5910	I'm taking a half-hour break, also for lunch. An hour's break. According to the Secretariat's report, we have a quorum, we continue where we left off, and that's a statement by the College on your proposals, please listen. [[PAUZA]] The College accepted that Mr Ibrahim Spahić's proposals were sorted here, at the same time point 1. The Minority Act, points 7 and 8 respectively, i.e. Proposal 8. From the SDP gentlemen, Ms Muminagić and Mr Tokić accept points 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. Add number one to the program. In the next point, the medium-term economic development strategy of BiH is accepted. In addition, the election law adopted the proposal. By Mr. Rasim Kadić, the proposals have already been accepted, others have not, unfortunately, been accepted, some have already been included in these proposals that we have accepted. Mr Tarik Čaršimamović has proposed, his proposals have accepted number 1 and number 4. From Mr Malkić, they were accepted: number 2, number 3, number 4, number 5, number 9, and number 10. The BiH sport law has been passed. 91 As for the proposal by Mirsad Kurtović, Deputy Minister, we believe this should go to the Council of Ministers of BiH, anything the Council of Ministers accepts, we will automatically put it into our programme. I would ask you, given this in mind, that those proposals that have yet to be made, to consider, or, if there is someone that will give up their proposals, it would be a great help, if not, to us these suggestions that are left and not accepted, we have to put it to the vote. So, I'm asking the promoters if anyone's giving up their proposals?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5911	In order to rationalise these things, Mr. Chairman, I would accept the following, that the last position, which concerns the initiative, should you now confirm this, as the College, and as the chairman, cannot be questioned by the agenda of the initiatives that have passed under the Rules of Procedure on a provisional basis and on the basis of the conclusion, in normal procedure, for three or six months, and that they must come to the agenda. Otherwise, they are nominated as one normal procedural obligation for the Kolegijum to be put on the agenda. If you accept that, I don't insist on voting on it. Because something I suggested, I wouldn't want it to come to a vote if it belonged to that kind of procedure. You can make your point about that. If you make a positive statement, I do not insist on voting, but I ask that it be nominated and done, that the College first, I immediately propose to place this initiative on the agenda at one of the next sessions, as a parliamentary initiative that has been going on for six months.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5912	We accept that, as far as I know, the College accepts this suggestion and therefore...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5913	I will state this initiative, but in the next session, in writing, in due time, when it is given and for which six months suffers, I would say this deadline of duration and waiting and ask that it be put on the agenda, it does not have to enter the programme, because it is going into normal procedure. That's the first one. I'm releasing you from one obligation. Secondly, Mr. Banjac and I had one controversy at the last session, regarding the Declaration of Education between the two Entity Ministry of Culture and now I suggest that this law on education, as it is formulated here, be formulated under the part where it relates to analytical and information activities, to be a debate on education, if Mr. Banjac agrees, in line with the interest we have shown as MPs for this issue. Well, then I give up, and if Mr. Banjac agrees, and thirdly, as far as social policy is concerned, I expect that the Council of Ministers of BiH, given that Mr. Kurtović made a statement today, has prepared and you have confirmed earlier that his proposals will be back on the BiH Council of Ministers and other proposals, I hope that they will be included in the 2000-2004 strategy, this could be accepted as an explanation. 92 Now I'd just like to talk about education, because it was the conclusion, the two of us agreed, the compromise was to go to the debate, it doesn't have to be the law, if you agree, Mr. Čaršimamović, You and Mr. Banjac, I agree that we don't discuss my...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5914	I, for Bog's sake, thought the MP would propose a shift again like these preceding times, whatever he said. I think we understand each other. Yes, it's true, we talked, what I truly want, and I accept, it's that one piece of information may be made through the Ministry, one and the other, and it would be called, according to what I see, information about inter-entity co-operation in the field of education. I think it's realistic, that this parliament can be aware of it, because it's an important segment of work in BiH. So that would do both and the Ministry and give as information here to us, and I think we deserve it. I think what might be in that area is information.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5915	Are you, then, giving up on point 5?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5916	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5917	So, I put item five back on the vote, yes or no?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5918	I can agree on inter-entity co-operation in the field of education and problem solving, of course, can.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5919	So point 5 is out of the vote. Is there anyone else who can give up the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5920	In front of the SDP Club, we insist that we define ourselves on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Devices, as it is also within the framework of the European Union guidelines adopted by the Presidency of BiH, it supported and allowed us to do our part of the work. Secondly, let's be clear on the inclusion in the BiH Constitution's Partnership Initiative Programme with the European Convention on Human Rights. 93 A, as for these others we have proposed to add to the programme, I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers be defined on how to consider these two points: the White Paper Declaration, on the preparation of associated Central European countries for integration into the EU's internal market and on information on preparation for a donor conference on programmes for which funding is sought. The reasons are next. To join the EU, we should have the first decision of the BiH Council of Ministers on EU accession and the World Trade Organisation, then we should have a state programme or what other countries call a national programme, under national terms not nationality but states as a nation, a state programme, meaning, the approximation of the EU, and we should have a adopted legislation programme. The White Paper contains 90,000 pages, harmonising our legal legitimacy with EU laws, it is a very large job and we should approach this job and ask that the BiH Council of Ministers be defined on the way. If it's not the right way we suggested, let him say which is, in any case, one relationship to this book we have to have. And as for the donor conference, you know that one, I don't know if it's officially delayed, but in any case it wasn't held when it was scheduled, because we didn't respond or we didn't make all the arrangements, all the regulations we've been asked to make. And I think we should have one piece of information, what we haven't done, and another thing, what we've been looking for from the beginning, we never say what programs are offered for a donor conference. We think that the BiH Parliament should first be aware of what these programmes require, financial resources to support international organisations, financial and other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5921	Thank you very much. I'm asking again. Is there anyone to give up the proposal, after these explanations? If he doesn't, we're going to vote. Please, Mr Ibrahim Spahić's proposals: Number 2. The IPR Act. Who's in? Who's against it? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 30 present – 17 for – versus 11. By entities, the Federation of BiH, 13 for – from RS, 3 against. So this proposal didn't go away. Proposal number three. The law on Sarajevo as the capital of BiH Who's in favour, I ask everything? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Of the 30 present, 7 is for – versus 10. Therefore, this proposal has not been passed. This is about the reality of the program we're bringing, not the laws whether they're good or not. The law on state, scientific, cultural and other BiH institutions, number 4, Spahic's proposal. 94 I ask, who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 30 present – 14 for – 12 against. From the Federation of BiH, 9 for, from RS, 3 for. Therefore, this proposal did not go through either. Declaration on the social situation in BiH, number 6. Who's in, asking everything? Who's against it? Of the 30 present – 10 voted in favour – 11 against. Therefore, this proposal did not go through either. SDP MPs' club, point 3. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, which was recently made. Who's in? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 31 present – 17 for – 11 against. From the Federation of BiH, 14 for, from RS, 3. This proposal didn't go through either. Let's add the program here under the next point, under number 2. Declaration of acceptance of the White Book, who's in favour. Who's in favour of going to the BiH Council of Ministers. Who's in? Who's against it? By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 31 present – 17 for – 8 against. From the Federation of BiH, 13 for, from RS, 2 for. He didn't make it. Point 3. Initiative on the Harmonisation of the BiH Constitution, etc. It's not about obligations, it's about a work programme that we can or can't fulfill, please. It's not against this, it's whether it's being implemented in the work programme. The vote is now, please. Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present – 14 is - 12 against. From the Federation of BiH, 14 for, from RS, 3 for. The proposal didn't go through. The election law has been passed. Now we have Rasim's proposals that we believe are already included in the agenda, and the others, unfortunately, are not accepted. So, do you want to vote? He's giving up the vote, I don't know what the argument is. 95 Gosodine Čaršimamović, do you give up your proposals? We've accepted one and four, and we're voting for number two. Number 2 of the Energy Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? From 32 present – 13 for – 13 against. Therefore, from the Federation of BiH, 11 for – from RS, 3 for. Therefore, this proposal did not go through either. Number three. The law amending the law, it's already been voted. Thank you very much. We have Mr Abdurahman Malkić's suggestions. Mr. Malkić, are you giving up some of your proposals? You're not giving up. We didn't adopt number one. Number one. The law on state roads and roads of BiH, we have already passed a similar law, in fact. Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? Number two, three, four, five are accepted. The law on financing railway infrastructure, who's in favour. Excuse me, please, at the point of Mr. Abdurahman Malkić. By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present, 17 for – 13 against. From the Federation of BiH, 12 for and from RS 3 for. He didn't make it. We've got point six. Law on financing of railway infrastructure in BiH Who's in favour, asking everything? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of 32 present – 16 for – 12 against. From the Federation of BiH, 9 for, from RS, 3 for. He didn't make it. Number seven. Who's for the Safety of Railway Transport Act, if you like? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present – 17 for – 12 against – 11 against. From the Federation of BiH, 12 for, from RS, 4 for. This proposal didn't go through either. 8. Law on transport contracts in railway transport Who's in favour? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? 96 Of 32 present – 15 for – 11 against. From the Federation of BiH 13 for, from RS 3 for. The mail law has already been passed. So, I don't think we have any reason to plead on this. The law on sports in BiH – it is accepted, thank you. The Red Cross Act or the Cross Who's For? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? For Mr. Mirsad Kurtović's suggestion, we're just here to declare here. Of the 32 present, 16 were for – 10 against. From the Federation of BiH, 13 for – from RS, 3 for. He didn't make it. Does anyone have any objections to the vote? I'm asking you nicely not to be maligned. This is about whether you're for the law or against the law, but it's just about the reality of a work programme that's going to fight your head later. This concludes this point. Tokic, what do you need? I can't tell you now. You'll get exactly what's accepted in the program.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5922	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, most of today's time, a good part of today's time, is the discussion of the Vice-President's discussion, whose stenogram we received. I do not allow this discussion to go beyond it, given that it is written like this, to act even more dangerously for the position of BiH against the vice-president and I would not like to conclude this item of the agenda until the House of Representatives declares its conclusion on the non-confidential vote to Mr Banjac. Please, this is Mr. Banjac, in his discussion, the authorised discussion, talking about the abuse of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision. The BiH Constitutional Court decision is not abused, it is final and binding. And all these formulations heading towards the revote of the representatives of the two peoples cannot be treated differently than the ignorance of the deputy chairman of the BiH Constitution and the conscious disabling of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which, according to Article 6, is both in the procedure and in the
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5923	What part of the agenda is this, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5924	I'm talking about the conclusion that you're going to put on the agenda. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5925	You don't need to paint it before the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5926	Let me explain, please. We asked for a stenogram and we got it. In a sentence that says, therefore, gentlemen, you have to understand, the vote has given quite an accident, you want more.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5927	Please stop, now is not a debate about
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5928	Allow me, Chairman, you want more. I ask that this House of Representatives be told who wants more, which is a threat.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5929	You.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5930	What kind of threat is that? You haven't had enough of the accident in here. But the SDS repeats the threats that have been before and cannot, according to my moral dignity and my political option, sit at the post of vice chairman. These are important things. You have no right to interrupt this discussion. I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5931	We're terminating the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5932	I am asking the chairman to vote for confidence because it is about threats and ignorance of the BiH Constitution. It's about decadent threats. Read, journalists, this shame we experience today, after ten years. Who else wants that? Is that a threat on the eve of the Srebrenica anniversary, who wants more accidents?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5933	I beg you, I will interrupt the session, if this continues, in a tone like this. I don't think it makes sense to run a session like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5934	Dear gentlemen, you see a dictionary of hate spoken here today. I want to go public again, read what I said. I said, and I'm behind this 98. The BiH Constitutional Court's decision is being misused. Here, you see, it's mentioned, who knows what here today doesn't mention everything behind this pay phone, behind these words, and again I think the decision is being misused. She needs to pass the procedure and pass the procedure. Please, who was changing here? This decision does not apply to the BiH Constitution. And please, we are here to protect the BiH Constitution. This is where we swore. You see what this man is doing here. This is the man, who challenged three Serbian names in the last session, now re-disputes the Srbin alone. It's that multiethnic who just wants it to be. Shame on you, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5935	I'll let you do it by morning, but this doesn't lead to anything, it doesn't really lead, it's civilization. It doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5936	I need a replica, because this display and your silence, the silence of the Lord of the U.S.A., the silence I will not endure. Allow me, in front of a half-empty gym or a full O.R., I'd like to point out, read the discussion. Don't let the stunts and gymnastics that were happening here, they've been recognizable in this area before. Who wants more? The vote has brought a lot of accidents. The point is that BiH Constitutional Court's decision, three of the most measured international representatives in the area of constitutional law, wants to cause an accident. It showed up on me and said you want more. Gentlemen from the concept of power you created in '90. In the year, you'll come to your senses in 2000. This is a public threat. And regardless of this, I've watched that rise and date and extra-institutional decision all these ten years. We need to discuss this here, because this is much more important than the programs for which MPs, some in this order, have already said that it doesn't matter, adopt or not adopt. We've adopted programs here unanimously. No dots are doubled. We adopted today a programme that says that we will consistently implement the New York, Brussels Declaration, so we voted against the introduction of a law on the possibility of a single passport. Who's here to paint? I'm asking him to vote, vote for Mr. Banjac's mistrust. I'll be proud to be distrusted. He cannot be vice-president with such views, with such interpretation of decisions and constitutionality and multiethnicity, in my opinion he cannot be an MP, but it is an OHR matter. This is a drastic opposition to the Dayton Peace Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5937	It will be put to the vote on your application. I would ask you, however, to be dignified.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5938	Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, I wasn't in the O.R. when Mr. Banjac was saying what we got later, and I'm pretty sorry that I wasn't at that point, because I would probably react then. Secondly, we promised, you promised us we'd get a stenogram and now we've got it, finally, and we're talking on a basis, so something that's already been authorized. I must say that I am disappointed with the statements of high-ranking state officials, including Mr Banjac, who has already placed himself on the side of the evaluation, and even by accusing others of abuse of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which has not yet been published in the Official Journal in the integral text so that we can discuss it. Secondly, I find it inappropriate that the thesis on the revote of the people should be put here. It's a dangerous one, I'd say, structure, which has come in the last two or three days and which is back on the agenda again, I'd say, already seen words. Thirdly, it seems to me that a sentence has been made that the voting mechanism has given quite an accident. In a certain way, it is an attempt to retouch history in BiH, because it seems to me that an attempt, I would say, has been a symptom of events in the last ten years. If I wanted to take the most harsh interpretation of the words said by Mr. Mirko Banjac, then I could almost say that ten years ago, behind this sentence, there was one, behind the pay phone, which was somewhere nearby, was a threat, which was about, basically, what is being said here. If you vote, you'll be gone. The BiH Constitutional Court's decision carries out a revote and a kind of threat to some new accident. It seems to me that these are exceeded messages from the past. I wish Mr. Banjac hadn't spoken them, but when he's already spoken them, then it seems to me that he himself, and this House of Representatives, will have to bear as a political message, and plead accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5939	I beg you, Mrs. Jovanović came forward and I think these are all replicas, Mrs. Rađević and you answered the line, and then Mirko Banjac, and then Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5940	I won't take much time, I'm sorry that Mr. Tokić came out, I only went out to act as a doctor, although gynecologist, I'm sorry I'm not a neuropsychiatrist. And tone and finger, I mean everything is inappropriate to this home and these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5941	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5942	My replica is from my colleague Kadić, and this is about the next one. Kola Kadić took the right to clarify here the situation in which someone votes and when a threat comes afterwards, and that threat can be said so and so. I want to say here, colleague Kadiću, that I agree with you when it comes to the voting mechanism in BiH, when it comes to the three people, that it stands as you said, but what you said in the second part is absolutely, from my point of view, unacceptable. In fact, after that, there is no attitude or thought coming, if you vote, you will be gone, but attitude and thought will come if you vote, we will not go with you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5943	Mr. Kadić, I didn't know you as an intolerant man, and I'm sorry to meet you like that now. About you really so far all the praises. Don't put what I didn't say in my mouth, don't even think about it. In the end, the image of Mirko Banjac won't fix it or spoil it, it's what it is, and all those who cooperated with me know me well. I won't spoil your image, and you can't spoil mine. Why add what's not written here, perhaps from the subconscious, but then it's not mine, then it's yours. I don't see any reason to overheat the atmosphere, and I've only said what everyone here is well-intentioned to accept. Once again, the abuse today was the decision that connected her to our work. We, gentlemen, are working under the Constitution of BiH. And that's what I said was abuse and I'm still standing behind that word. Next, if you gentlemen are going to say it's a vote, I say it is, there was a vote, five to four is always five to four. Does it not bother you, gentlemen, that in those four, they were representatives of the Serbian people, in that body and representatives of the Croatian people in that body. On the principle of the constitution of the BiH Constitutional Court, it was said to be composed of two representatives of the Serb people, two representatives of Bosniak, two representatives of Croatia and three representatives of the international community. That's what the constitution says, gentlemen. Is it really a coincidence that on the other hand, among the four, representatives of the two nations have also found themselves. If that's an accident for you, it's not for me. And I don't want you to be alone either, and I've said it nicely here, that I won't feel happy if it's a representative of one or another or a third nation, I haven't singled out anyone. That you want to connect me to this or that, that's the subconscious, gentlemen, that's in you, not in me. Write that down well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5944	These are all replicas. If he wants to let you go...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5945	Ladies and gentlemen, in a crucial historical situation, and one of those crucial ones, I would say the situation, I would say the Constitutional Court's decision, it's not exactly commendable to talk about the image, I'm not here in the story between the future of BiH, the equality of all citizens of a country. For me, the image is not the first, but the equality, equality of all BiH citizens, as one state, no matter where they live. And as for the subconscious, Mr. Banjac, I'm not speaking from the subconscious, but from the painful historical experience that we've all been through in the last 8 or 9 years. My painful historical experience teaches me that the revote is the cause of the accident, and according to your statement, this is one of the revotes, so the logical conclusion is that it will be the cause of the accident.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5946	That's what you're saying. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5947	Please, Mr. Banjac, you claim that the revote was the cause of the accident and that it happened two days ago. My painful historical experience in the last ten years teaches me that I have to react to such words to lower the temperature and not repeat the accident in which I am fully convinced that it wasn't the overvote that caused the accident, but some other concepts, which were often outside of this building where it was decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5948	Mr. Spahić, then Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5949	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, I must express, first of all, the satisfaction that has taken place, in addition to this fact that we have had such a long discussion about the Programme, a decision which, as I understand it, has been made by consensus in the College, which concerns the request of our Parliament, today and formally, in the programme, to adopt the Law on Minorities. I think it is indeed a political event, and I want to express my satisfaction that something like this has happened, that it is without a problem presented to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, that there is no vote on what is a fundamental human right and I would like to point out this before this intervention. Secondly, the second document that was accepted without discussion and which I talked about on several occasions and for which I prepared the text of the resolution, as you know, about trust and reconciliation, but I asked it to formally enter the programme, for me was another confirmation that a whole new political climate is being created here today during the second part of the work of this assembly. I wanted to quote these two things because they are based, in a way, on the present and the future of BiH. It is about the present and the future of BiH, and because of memory, I am not a man who is very reluctant to react in a way that could cause different tensions, except for one rational conversation on issues that are essential to BiH. So I see that in this stenogram that I have now received my reaction and here it is said, Mr. Pero Skopljak, I assume that the replica has Spahić, so Tokić, you have a discussion and a replica, etc. I have two requests in relation to Mr. Banjac's text and my own text that begins, but doesn't end. Like Mr. Banjac, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and as Mr. Tokić, I demand that my intervention, in connection with this discussion of Mr. Banjac, be made available to me, to Parliament and the public, that I, too, have the right to authorise, which is perfectly normal and that it be presented to the public and that there are no major misunderstandings. If you follow, my reaction was very precise and I'm sorry that there is no basis now, except for Mr. Banjac's intervention, which we are dealing with. Namely, when a debate is being held, a discussion on the proposal made by Mr Tokić, who was positively accepted by Mr Banjac, asking himself to declare his resignation and to vote in the course of the morning discussion, I thought it was a rational and normal relationship, if one MP proposes something, it is 102 about the MP to whom it refers, he accepts the debate, he considers it a correct relationship, and therefore it is not necessary to vote, but rather to approach the process. If I see the debate going further now, I insist that my intervention, too, is a stenographic security for parliament and for the public. Why? Because it makes it quite clear, what you heard, which I do not want to repeat, is that in fact we entered into this debate for one simple reason why anxiety was created, whether in this state parliament, or in the Federal Parliament, yesterday, probably for the day when the Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and there, in the statements of individual officials, political representatives, which is normal, why, people, is finally waiting so long to make, with such or such a result, when it has been made normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5950	Please, these agenda points are gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5951	I ask that, for the consistency of the debate, about the problem that has been triggered, for the sake of correctness, if I have followed well that Mr. Banjac has accepted that trust for him, as vice president of the Kolegijum, if I have followed him well. There's a stenogram. If I'm not, if I won't approach it, I insist, I don't have to do it at this session, we can wait for it all together or next, but I would like to publish the magnetogram of the debate that I had about it, which Mr. Tokić had, which other MPs had. Whether it's the replicas, or the interventions, and then you'll see, what Miss Gynaecologist, our colleague, the lady, I apologize, our gynaecologist, as an MP pointed out first her profession, as a doctor, and the intervention as if, is, is, an MP. I, you know, was a very good one, that I also make one approach, that there will be a debate, there can be no debate, please, Mr. Skopljak, there can be no debate only on what will stand here one copy of Mr. Banjac's discussion. Because if Mr. Banjac recognizes in his discussion, they know, see how they know who they are. Usually, you see how they come forward and I think that it must, etc., mean if Mr. Banjac recognized everything before I even checked in and I don't know who else answered later, I ask you, in order for parliament to make a serious decision, he has to have magnetograms of complete debate on this subject, and based on that, I think we should know one serious, normal procedure. I said that we do not involve this problem, because I felt that when the Constitutional Court comes on the agenda that, normally in accordance with the Constitution, this Parliament will respect it, as well as the entity parliaments and the lower-organised parliamentary assembly and with a certain meaning, I do not mean lower values. Therefore, I would like to remind Mrs gynecologist and our MP that the reaction of people is impulsive to some of the discussions that have come here is not a medical case, but a matter of feeling. People are already beginning to recognize themselves here. I thank you for making the doctor's intervention, but I'm embarrassed that Mr. Tokić wasn't there at the time and I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5952	Please, Mr. Spahić. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5953	Please, and I can lift one finger, but it's not right for you or anyone else to evaluate people's profiles, it's not just good. I don't like to do it either, so I'm asking for a public magnetogram to be available on the grounds of this debate, and as for trust or mistrust, Mr. Banjac has come forward. If he has withdrawn his position and now he does not want to discuss it, let him tell us, if he wants us to be relieved of this torment of voting, outwitting, etc. If he doesn't want us to know what this is about, please don't put us in a position to turn out to be some personal conflict, because it's not a personal conflict, it's serious topics that got involved, here's the work programme. It could have been about some other harmless question. In life, words roll and then insult. In any case, thank you to colleagues and to the Kolegijum, for agreeing to discuss minorities and reconciliation and trust, I believe that in that course, this discussion that we have delivered in relation to the Constitutional Court and its decision, in accordance with what we have stated, each of us individually, will be brought to an end and I would ask you for a point of the agenda, as an MP, to discuss it at the next session of Parliament, with a magnetogram and with all the elements of the debate, which will come to the public, on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5954	Please, these agenda points we're discussing right now are gone. Maybe it's my fault. Please, so please, come on, as far as this conclusion is concerned, I'll put him to the vote. Therefore, I am interrupting the debate on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5955	Chairman, you will, however, allow me to intervene, after a truly theatre performance, I would say tragically. I have to admit, in the last year, I thought we'd made a big step in this House right now, but I think I've been wrong. The association of Mr. Kadić, what the writer meant, reminded me of an anecdote or joke as you wish, of the greeting of the two Italijan. Every morning, meeting two neighbors, this one neighbor began to greet me, Meow Mario. And this was suspicious, which is why he welcomed him with Meu Mario, and then, associated, as Mr Kadić, came to the next conclusion. And, you know, meow is the voice of a cat, and the cat drinks milk, and the milk gives cows, and the cow has horns, and look at you he wants to tell me that he's sleeping with my wife. It could all stop if we were somewhere else behind another pay phone, not behind the congregation. As far as this decision is concerned, I now have to go back to what I'm saying, that the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court is highly politicised, which is best shown by today's debate, which was full of emotion. So it's clear to everyone that it's a political decision, not a court decision. The only thing is that and a little question of the face of some who teach us democracy and the free judiciary here, who used their authority to convince individual judges how they should vote. So this decision created a political atmosphere, full of charge and emotion. If that were the case, the best fact is that we have used this much time and this much bile, 104 here where there is no place at all, I repeat, has not changed the BiH Constitution. This is another confirmation, gentlemen, and proof that we've been arguing here more about things that aren't our business, but about things that are our business. The biggest conflict we had was when we got involved in entity matters, and we ignored the things we were supposed to discuss here. My proposal, chairing you, is what you have allowed me to discuss, you should not have allowed me, because after this vote, we should have voted on trust, or mistrust, and I ask you not to allow any further discussion, not because I am now the last one, so I suggest that this vote be voted on in the following way. That, above all, votes to set the agenda on not trusting Mr. Banjac, so if this is voted, as a part of the agenda, then we can possibly open the debate further, even though the debate was enough. I think that way we can end this very painful atmosphere. I ask you to vote on setting the agenda. This is a very important thing. Not every apostle can come to his mind, even if he has reason, to come out and say in the middle of one item of the agenda, let's vote on the trust of this or that. That must be the agenda point, so if it gets into the agenda, then we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5956	Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the debate on this. I'm interrupting now and now I'm asking you, who is, I'm interrupting the debate, I'm not giving any more words. The vote of mistrust to Vice-President Mirko Banjac, based on your proposal. Who's to put it as a part of the agenda? The legal basis will be your vote, please. Mr. Bičakčić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5957	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if we analyze our work today, we will see that we have spent a lot of time on issues that are not on the agenda, and that is your responsibility, Mr. Chairman, to channel work on agenda points, both in the old and in the new Rules of Procedure. We were first here present with the facts of a propaganda by Comrade Tokić, who, by the way, did not contribute to the submission of the application to the BiH Constitutional Court, and his debate aims to block the implementation of the decision. Unfortunately, he found a good talker in Mr. Banjac. Both Comrade Tokić and Mr. Banjac are blocking our work here today, and you, Mr. Chairman, are making it possible. The conclusion proposed by Mr Tokić is entirely unconstitutional and unfounded. I do not accept Mr Banjac's explanation on any basis, but no MP can be punished, convicted for his word or spoken stand for this speaker and thus disfellowshipped his right to defend himself. It's the appearance of an extreme left that has the answer to the extreme right and on that basis we can't work normally here. I ask you to provide us with the conditions to work on the agenda and on the points that are on the agenda. Thank you. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5958	It's up to you, please. I beg you, Mr. Tokić, wait, then let's go in order, as you've called, so if it's a violation, it's my offense. Mr. Raščić then Tokić Which part of the agenda. [[incursion from the site]] I don't know either. Whichever way you want to go. I can only forbid you or interrupt the session, but there's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5960	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers. Indeed, it is unacceptable for us in the agenda to discuss such important matters that are not within the scope of this congregation. Namely, to discuss whether the Constitutional Court's decision is correct or incorrect and whether we will confirm it or not to confirm it is indeed infancy and it is not suitable for this home. If anyone needs a tirad against those decisions, I think it should be the subject of some institutions, but outside this parliament. I don't want to be dragged into the debate and the conclusion of Mr. Banjac, no matter what he said. I have the right to disagree with him. This is a congregation where we cannot vote. And I don't know what you're talking about when you talk about voting and what you mean by it. So I ask that, in accordance with what we have agreed, we move on to the agenda, and if there are problems with the plea, we MPs, who were in this House and who have some historical memory and some threats, so I think we should be a little more flexible to take this debate with some resistance. I don't think we're inferior, and I think we've shown that we have no reason to fear whether someone will disappear or someone will become one. I would ask you, indeed, to move on to the agenda. Mr. Skopljak, I know it's really hard for you to appreciate everything, but I insist that you move, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on the agenda, anyway, if you need another agenda, to another assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5961	Thank you. I'm interrupting this debate. Mr. Tokić, stay here. Stay here, you have no words from me, I can't give you. I'm not giving this agenda point, if I have to, then you, I'm taking a half hour break. We have a quorum, we are now, in fact, in some debate that I think is beyond the agenda. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking you, we need to frame this, this debate, that is, put it at some point on the agenda. In that context, I expect you to do something right. I will give you the vote on whether there will be a item on the agenda on vote of confidence, i.e. the mistrust of the chairman, Mr. 106 Mirko Banjac, or not. When you say so, we will hear the conclusion of Mr. Tokić and plead as needed and about him. So please, Tokić, I ask you to declare this
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5962	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5963	Mr. Tokić, I'm afraid we'll be in the debate by morning. You could give me that Bičakčić. All right, here you go, go ahead and say your object and we'll finish the debate. Gentlemen, here is my right to be threatened, and I'm breaking up behind this replica debate, and then you're looking for a solution, whether I've missed all the restrictions or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5964	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, let me refer to Mr. Bičakčić's discussion and, for the sake of the public present here, through journalists, through television cameras, make it clear that Mr. Bičakčić's discussion, calling me an extreme left, an identical discussion ten years ago, when he and Irfan Ljubijankić, in a similar way as Rapčić did today, sought the protection of the character and works and the authority of Momčilo Krajišnik, who today in The Hague. I want to make this parallel, because I think this is a very important moment. Many will find it more important to discuss the programme that MPs have already declared will not be implemented, I believe this is a crown political debate. Mr. Bičakčić, gentlemen of the SDA, I say I am an extreme left, that way. Well, lucky for you and the support you gave then to the Krajišnik, which I believe you will now give to Mr. Banjac. In that concept, there was no Social Democratic Party ten years ago, neither will it now. Try to disengage the public from this shameful event and try to make small jokes, incursions, ease the discussion, Mr Banjac in which he clearly turned and referred to this side “overruled, you do not have enough accident, you want more” is a message that this parliament must take a stand on. That's all I insist on. Believe me, we have voter support for this, and I ask that because of the discussion, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, expressed views in the discussion, so that I do not repeat the whole discussion, you have it in front of a person, a conclusion on the vote of no confidence to the deputy chairman, Mirko Banjac of the SDS, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and to do so under those provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5965	I'll let everyone go by morning, we'll have a debate by morning. If you won't give me the right to interrupt the debate anywhere, and you're always insulting each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5966	I think it's good that the people of BiH heard what this gentleman is saying, call the Democrats and call the citizens' orientation. Of course he doesn't know otherwise. But this should be heard and I'd like all the newspapers and I'd like all the television houses 107 to pass on this discussion. I'm saying this discussion is about the accident and then and maybe, God Bog, today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5967	It won't be. I won't think about the accident. Spy, go ahead. Let him introduce himself. Please don't, if you're going to obstruct the work of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5968	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I think that a fundamental debate in this House can only begin when individuals are tired. When they get tired of obstructions. BiH, unfortunately, has not left the pre-election campaign after the Dayton Peace Agreement, and BiH citizens have not yet had a chance. I must make it clear that here, from these discussions, it is quite clear that Mr. Tokić's goal is to take a picture of the SDA, that it has nothing to do with Mr. Mirko Banjac. And I think that we have gone beyond the agenda and I think that this Parliament has repeatedly broken its own rules of procedure, not to say that it has entered into a debate on the Constitutional Court's decision, and we all advocate that this decision is not a good comment, especially not a good debate on it in this House. But it would be good to make it really clear to everyone that we're not exhausting ourselves on this one, I don't think this can be a part of the agenda, but, look, please put it as a point of order, if it passes, thank you very much, to plead, but come on, please, really, there's still four or five months left to choose. Many care about the election campaign already being run and run. It is in vain to tell that workers are jobless, hungry, there is no economic reform, there is no economic, system reform, there is no political reform. We're talking for nothing that maybe these reforms will be, if any of the options, even the Social Democrats win, but we're left with until November 11th to work in haste. Those who are disgusted by this business debate, those whom, possibly, someone from the council, even the chairman, does not respond, I cannot help them, really. There's no help here. But let's stick to the agenda, and I think that today's debate, I mean it must have left a bitter taste in the BiH citizens, no matter what many think they've scored, but let's go to a real debate once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5969	Please, I ask everyone, who is it to put as a item of the agenda, to draw conclusions on the vote of mistrust to the vice-president, Mr. Mirko Banjac? Who's in? I'm the judge of this, so you're complaining then. Who's in? Who's against it? Of the 28 present – 10 were for – 12 against. Therefore, this item of the agenda did not go past. We're going to the next point. 108 Ad.4. A draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, MPs Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović, I would like to discuss this point. Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5970	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I support the adoption of the Law on the financing of political parties. I believe this law should suffer certain changes. Namely, I think that the proposings should also include in the law the reasoning of the law, i.e. individual solutions under the law, and secondly, I suggest to the legislators that Article 3 and Article 18. The laws are balanced. It is said in Article 3 that the surplus funds received by political parties, based on illicit transfers and gifts, etc. be that the parties will forward to humanitarian, charity and other organisations. Article 18 provides that fines charged for violations of parties for certain matters will be rerouted so that 70% of the money will go to finance political parties and 30% for inspections, audits, etc. political parties. I mean, imagine, I just don't think that's a good solution. The parties will commit a misdemeanor, then on the basis of a misdemeanor, they will pay some money into an account, and then they will receive 70% of the money from those pairs of misdemeanors and distribute it to some parties. I think it's an impractical solution, and I think a member of 18 should be identified with Article 3. Which means that all the funds that the parties make, beyond this law, and all the funds that the parties pay as punishment, go to charity or humanitarian purposes, and that it is a kind of line in the law. Secondly, it seems to me that we would need an explanation, which may not be the subject of this law, whether voluntary contributions of citizens will be taxed or not, is one question I ask. Third, what about donations from international organisations and parties or other political associations outside BiH, this is not envisaged as a form of possible party financing in BiH. Fourth, maybe one more theoretical question. On the other hand, what did the promoter suggest that the maximum amount of donation be determined by the party at an average of 8 average salaries based on the BiH Statistics Agency? Why eight and not seven or nine? And maybe one practical question. The funds of the party's membership fee are not limited. Can the membership fee be so fictitious that it is a cover for amounts, limited amounts of grant? Or in translation, whether the party can fictitiously bring an amount of membership fee much higher than what is a donation, and then display it as a membership fee. I think we should determine some kind of way to avoid abuse in this law. In the end, I believe that these suggestions, perhaps some other colleagues, can help to draft a bill that we need to regulate these 109 principles and I again regret that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, this House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers of BiH have not found appropriate today in the Budget of BiH. This is the only budget, at all levels, in which there is no item for the financing of parliamentary parties and it turns out to be a terrible situation, which is that the parties do not exist at BiH level and that their existence ends at entity level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5971	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić, then Mrs. Havel, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5972	Since this is a debate on the draft law, I want to make some general remarks and some concrete remarks, and from these general remarks many of them refer to specifically, those who continue to work on the law, I think we should also take these principles into account, so to speak. The SDP club supports the adoption of law on the financing of political parties in BiH, which would regulate sources of funding of political parties' activities and ensure transparency in the way of collecting and available funds by political parties. We believe that this would be one of the ways to prevent the non-transparent use of state authorities and state-owned enterprises to finance the parties in power, which have a decisive impact on them. Given the role of political parties in the democratic pluralist system, in principle, we believe that the important source of party funding should be budget funds at all levels, which would be publicly approved, thus creating conditions for certain security and independence of parties from the influence of various hidden centres of power. In addition to this source, budgets, budgets, political parties should be able to use other sources of funds, which they can collect in accordance with legal regulations and in a transparent manner. These sources, in our opinion, should not be limited. It is necessary to disable the reach for the so-called. State resources, and it's not public and it's not transparent. It is necessary to disable the binding, i.e. the realisation of the interest of the grantors for the action of political parties and the achievement of their interests through the action of political parties. In other words, we advocate that the collection of funds be transparent, but to leave a broad possibility for the parties to benefit from what they come up with, what they can do with the fact that they cannot attach funds to their actions in parliaments and in other bodies that operate. I would, before I move on to some concrete remarks, give one, so to speak, a review of part of the law, another part of the law that regulates, in which way party funding will be controlled. My personal opinion, and, behold, I take the right to know a little bit more in this area, because I am an economist dealing with finance, I would point out that political parties, like any other legal person, and they are legal persons, that they are subject to financial business regulations, accounting regulations, audit regulations. The rules on accounting standards and other rules relating to funding, and that solutions in this law should be thoroughly reviewed in 110, and it should be consistent with the solutions given to these basic laws on the financing of all legal entities, I am now talking about the Federation of BiH, and I assume that it is the same in the RS, only then, in this law, should these relations be incorporated between the electoral commission, as the control body and the parties themselves. I am afraid that this law did not come from the law on funding and in these other laws in the field of accounting and audit, so that some new institutions that are not fit to deal with financing issues are being introduced irrationally here. It is my opinion that, in principle, all the funds received by a party from any source should be recorded and re-reciprocated, according to the regulations, and all expenditures must also be recorded, spent, i.e. by means of funds in accordance with the law. All parties are obliged as legal entities to prepare financial reports every year, so-called. Financial statements, according to the law and these financial statements are made available to the public, so public documents and are subject to review at the request of the users. Therefore, we have it regulated in our regulations, only the regulations should, in fact, adapt this law now so that the rules on finance, on financial operations, are incorporated into the law. I'm saying this because I think that some of the solutions, in the second part of the laws that have been given, are tossing the Election Commission, as an organ, above all these financial bodies that exist in the system. My personal opinion is that it wouldn't be good, so I'm free to say it, because when I tried to think about how this law would apply, I came to the conclusion that he might be in conflict with some of the laws we're talking about. If the budgetary resources we are seeking to be the source of funding, then you know that we have an audit, i.e. the main auditor, and the audit institution. Therefore, there is a possibility in the system to control the use of budgetary resources, that these reports are delivered to Parliament and other bodies, if we reach a conclusion, that is, if the law establishes that the report on the use of budgets, on the revision of the use of budgets, is delivered. So I suggest that whoever prepared this law looks at this part in the light of these regulations and adapts that part of the law to these regulations. Personally, my opinion is that the responsibility of the Election Commission in this area could be reduced to the implementation of the elections and the funds used for the election campaign, and that all other financing of the parties and the control of the financing of the parties go in accordance with the regulations and each of us, not every one of us, but every institution, has the right to seek insight into each report, and secondly, may request the revision of that report. I will now give some concrete examples, remarks on the members, as Mr Kadić just gave it. I do not think that in Article 2, when defining political parties, the possibility of forming a party whose action would be aimed at challenging national and religious hatred, propagating fascism, destroying BiH's integrity and secession of parts of BiH and similar issues should be left. In Article 3, in addition to these sources, this is about sources of funds, I assume that you have a law in front of you, that you can see it, you should include, in addition to 111 contributions and donations, legal and physical persons, NGOs, etc., and I also believe that you should not limit revenue, nor narrow down activities that can be dealt with by companies formed by a political party, as set out in this Article 3. In Article 4, Section 3 should be deleted, because it does not apply to contributions, and it is unclear, and the right to tell you, I could not explain it as a contribution, something was going to be said, and it is not clear what it is. In Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7, I speak so quickly, I do not specify what it says, in order to shorten the time, so please look, that the difference between the contributions made regularly by members of management and political party representatives and that they should not be laid down on one-off contributions, I think these contributions can be concessive, can be tied to monthly income, they do not have to be legally, it can be done by the decisions of the party's authority, but the law should not be treated as single contributions. A one-time contribution, you give it once and then you can't do it anymore. If it is estimated that it is necessary to limit the amount of these contributions, they may be conflicting, but their overall height may be limited by one amount if deemed necessary. I've accepted that even though I don't see any big reason. What we believe should be included in the law is that the contributions of legal and legal persons, or legal persons, and for natural persons, if it is the decisions of the party's authority, should be accompanied by the decisions of the authorities responsible for those persons to make decisions on making those contributions, means that there are no secret contributions in which none of the management and management bodies in the companies, about legal persons who are said to know about them. Article 10 should first establish the budgetary resources. Article 10 should first establish the obligation to allocate budget appropriations to parties, which is not available, to establish a way of providing funds in the budget, means that some criteria, for example, can be provided for regular activity. The funds can be provided specifically as an item for the elections, for the electoral activity, when we conduct the elections. The funds can be provided by creating conditions for parties to work. The parties do not have the conditions of spatial and others to work, it may be some criterion for the provision of budgetary resources, of course, depending on the balance sheet options, that would be the first, and then only to come the way of the allocation of funds. We here now have a way of disbursing funds, and we didn't say we were going to provide funds, I don't know what we're sharing. I think, too, that the possibility of depriving budgets in cases of non-compliance with certain rules, electoral rules, etc. should be foreseen. for parties which do not comply with those rules. I propose that members from 11th to 20th be reviewed as a whole, in accordance with the principles which I initially made. It means to comply with existing rules on the financing of legal persons, accounting, accounting standards and audits. Thank you. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5973	We'll have a chance to give amendments, etc., this is the bill. Mrs. Havel, Mr. Špirić, Mr. Neimarlija and Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5974	The esteemed MPs, I consider mandatory with the draft of a law to provide an explanation, and I think, I suggest, therefore, when we have a proposal to get an explanation, everything already stated in the remarks, but in that explanation, there is also a constitutional basis. He's not here. Otherwise, I support the adoption of this law, and I would draw attention to only one member, in one position, that is the final position of Article 11. A detailed way of disbursing funds will be regulated by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's rules of procedure. Obviously, this provision cannot stand, so it needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5975	Thanks, he's got quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5976	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the way the draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH took place. You know that on May 18th in the Office of the High Representative, with OHR representatives, a debate was held with representatives of all political parties, therefore, of all political parties politically partying in this parliament. During the talks, it was issued, I would say, a high consensus, or the highest consensus on the need to pass laws on funding the work of political parties in BiH. poslanik Đedović and I personally made a commitment to refer one such working material, with the help of the OHR, to a parliamentary debate, which we did. I, too, must draw attention to the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers at today's session, you received the material, which says that the BiH Council of Ministers, at its meeting of 4.7.2000, discussed the draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, proposed by Ibrahim Đedović and Nikola Špirić, MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. With this in mind, we would like to inform you that the Council of Ministers supported the proposed bill, assessing that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and the need for the same offices of the ways and conditions under which political parties and members of political parties acting on their behalf provide the means to work. That is, therefore, the position of the BiH Council of Ministers. I must say, too, that in the debate, there is a vision required to see how much funding of political parties at BiH level will burden BiH's budget, but I think this is also the answer to Parliament's Kadić that, if there is a budget rebalance, MPs have the right to agree, how much funding is involved in financing the work and activities of political parties, and this law has arranged the distribution of these 113 funds, so that these things are not as vague as they may seem to someone at first sight. I would like to say, too, that we, as legislators, had this morning a meeting where we agreed that perhaps on the draft ourselves we would propose certain adjustments, which would become an integral part of the bill, where each MP would have the first amendment to act. So in Article 3, instead of point 4, we propose an addition where it says "the state budget for the financing of parliamentary groups", that it stands, because it is the constitutional provision of the BiH budget, for the financing of parliamentary groups, and that the text follows how you have in the proposal. Also, in Article 8, which refers to the level of public capital participation, in public corporations, public institutions, where 50% has been said, it is proposed to stand at 25%, therefore, it is a forbidden contribution, and up to 25% that it is in line with the decision of the Interim Election Commission since March of the month, and what we also want to propose, is, it is a addition of a new member, for the reason that the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, unfortunately, did not adopt a permanent electoral law, in order to temporarily regulate some things, and here, we propose that Article 21 reads "Until a permanent electoral commission is established, according to Article 5. Annex 3. The General Framework Agreement for Peace, the Interim Election Commission can take over all or only part of the powers and affairs assigned to the BiH Election Commission by this law. Appeals on decisions of the Interim Election Commission may be submitted to the election subcommittee for complaints, on the basis of Article 16 of this Act and the Rules on the work of the Election Subcommittee for Appeals. The jurisdiction given to this position to the subcommittee will remain until the relevant BiH institutions assume that competence." In order to avoid problems during the transitional period, this Article 21 has been proposed. I, therefore, like to help you in the context of a general debate to come up with a bill on which we will be able to act as amendments and what pleases me is that there is unreserved support, in the sense that there is a law on the financing of political parties at the level of BiH, that the time, because of the various speculations and stories, the fight against crime and corruption, the transparency of the spending of funds, individual political parties, would be good to have a proposal for this law at the next session and to adopt this law before the annual holidays, because here we saw today in the proposal of the Labour Programme of the Representative Council that the accent was put on permanent electoral law. I've had so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5977	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I, for my part, support this draft, but I believe that it has one very serious deficit, because it does not include the most powerful indication of the origin of the parties' assets, which they currently have, given the different origins of assets and different financial, property positions of parties, having regard to, above all, property from the time of the one-party system in BiH. I believe that this law will not be able to fully regulate the financing of political parties until the end, unless an open issue of the origin of property is regulated and the full odds of political parties in BiH, given the availability, i.e. the lack of assets from the time of the single-party system is regulated. This is too serious a question and I, of course, is the regulation of this property, such as the very serious political issue today, ensuring equality and equal positions of parties, given that it is precisely these unequal odds, because they do not have the same 114 assets from before, but I ask that the legislators of this law, in any case, find a legal instrument that will legally, at least say, ensure the equality of such, as far as possible, opportunities, political parties in BiH, given this enormous injustice that we now have in the inequality of these property and financial positions of the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5978	Thank you. Here you go, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5979	Mr. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I would like to say to Mrs. Desi that, and that is my suggestion, that we are working today until we end this session's agenda, indeed, no matter how long. In that context, I suggest we be expedient when this point of the agenda is at stake. This draft is a good basis for the adoption of a law and I would ask the Proposer to listen, this draft is a good basis for the adoption of the proposal, which we will then consider later, I propose that we adopt it, under the obligation, of course, that, on the basis of these discussions which we have heard and the predecessor, Mr Neimarlija, I agree with it, for a good part, to take into account these discussions, and who wants to deliver their proposals and suggestions in writing on complementarity and complementarity, to make up one proposal, which will then enter into the procedure through amendments, until the final adoption. I think this way we can end this point with pleasure and move on to the next one and thus end today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5980	I'll be glad if we do, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5981	Mr. Chairman, this draft law is welcome, of course, it is a pity that this law is not in the context of a law that is allegedly in the procedure of the OHR or the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is about the action of the Association of Citizens, NGOs, foundations, etc. On the other hand, in any case, the law concerning political parties, I would then base some things on a second, probably, basis. I have to say it's a great shame, because civil society in BiH is completely blocked by the delay in the adoption of laws on associations of citizens, foundations and different forms of society, that's the first thing I want to say. I would also like to make sure that the OHR, if it is still with the Council of Ministers of BiH, concentrate their attention on the character of democratic and civil society in BiH. Because the adoption of a law on the financing of political parties, in some ways, creates the impression that we are dealing with ourselves. It's good to settle relationships and do ourselves occasionally. Another thing I would like to say is the impression, of course, in the public, of many hundreds and hundreds of organizations, associations of citizens and foundations and people who would like to join in doing something at BiH level, to cooperate with the world, are blocked because our 115 parliament did not pass such a law, that is, my pledoies, in which I would like to say just one word. I fully agree with Mr Neimarlija for his suggestion to consider the context of funding political parties. Why? Because then it will be found that it is one general abduction of the assets of political parties and parties, that some who have moved from one party to the other thought that they took cars with them, that they took press equipment with them, brought with them all possible documents, and it is known to be the '90s. the year when a multi-party was adopted in BiH, the Constitution of the Republic of BiH, clearly guaranteed, since it must be legal security. The law must be equal to everyone. Guaranteed by all political parties, that what is their property is protected. It wasn't that thing, it was then a proposal, given the turmoil in society, the fractures that occurred, even one gentlemen's agreement, to make a re-election in two years, remember, but it started in '92. The year of war. I want to warn you of one fact, if this request is rational, that requirement implies, not one, two or five political parties. He means all political parties. It means what it has, for example, today SDS, SDA, HDZ, SDP, GDS, liberal, etc. I know that this political power is largely fulfilled by providing non-transparent political resources with funding and various forms of victory for various political options in BiH. That's quite clear. In order for us to settle this relationship, that's why I called in, it's impossible to arrange one relationship only with this party financing law. We can give a hundred activities to our clients. We must have one social context for the development of civil and democratic society. I already said that, one argument for that. I think it's in the program that we're going to get to that law and I think the OHR, as our partner in labor and development, will respect that. The second law, of course, is the one concerning directly one will that people join together, and they decide who they will give support to, what, and in what way. So this second form of freedom of association, as well as freedom of speech, makes the law lacking because, essentially, and this draft, unfortunately, because the debate is general, we can, in the amendments afterwards, when it comes to the proposal, make it missing, because it gets the impression that we want to solve it now, that we will arrange, that there is political will, etc. But when you look at the structure of bh. society, you see, in fact, the biggest problem is that a number of political factors, political parties, has shifted that political power, democracy from the BiH Parliament, from the Council of Ministers of BiH or, I guess, transferred them to political apparatus, centrals, etc. Why did that happen? It happened, there was no law that applied equally to all political parties, and that is why I support the effort to reach the law, but there can be no law, without what I was talking about with the OHR on funding, cannot come without the public opinion law, or the information law. Because there is nothing more transparent than this parliament, which has a direct public television broadcast or does not have, there is nothing more transparent than to see the power or impotence of political parties that have a financial background or have no. The international community is fully aware of the situation in BiH. It sought transparency in relation to separation from public enterprises, from monopoly companies, etc. and it is correct by the international community and all political parties have agreed, people who held 2-3 public enterprises and positions in 116 parliament have retreated. Very positive, in this respect, are some, some are also negative, but this process cannot suddenly be expressed. Therefore, I think these three components should bear in mind a) the law on the organisation of associations of citizens and foundations b) the public information law, the responsibilities of public officials and politicians and political parties, and c) of course, this law which will be a conflict of funding and which, in some other contexts, will place this law and some of the solutions offered here. I could object a lot to this law, but I ask that this law be an incentive for OHR to do as soon as possible what makes a democratic basis for determining the action of our environment. If the OHR can't do that, let it play in the procedure of the BiH Council of Ministers, which is obviously very ambitious at the beginning and, behold, it finally went through, my proposal to encourage a solution that will see global things in the context of the financing law. They can't attack against each other that it's pointless. Like, for example. in the RS or the Federation of BiH, many assets have been seized by the SDS or, for example, SDA or HDZ or SDP or GDS, and should be seen who seized it and on the basis of which the law since 1990. It's a wild rule since '92. '95. And in 96 years, continued to this day, without law, introduces us to act so irresponsiblely when it comes to our political positions. So I'm asking you to do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5982	Thank you very much for the exhaustive discussion. A Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5983	In any case, the adoption of the law goes in favour of this parliament, as well as BiH. However, it seems to me that these sources of funding are not suitable for the situation. In this respect, it is possible to form an enterprise from only two activities, for culture and publishing activities, and above is possible to collect income from property owned. It is nothing more than renting, i.e. allowing someone to collect rents, rents or rents, which is also a kind of activity that is not framed. I believe that any activity should not be a stumbling block, that it has a political party in it, that it deals with its activities. Then, the work of individual members of the political party to be unpaid work, and the fact is that we, within the parties, have very good employees, and if we can finance them from these sources of funding, which is not to say, we don't have employees there. Then, funding through these budget cuts, it seems to me that parties are favored, not pre-election coalitions. I also believe that they should be included and should be implemented through this law on the financing of political parties to facilitate formation and 117 pre-election coalitions. Also, a detailed way of disbursing funds will be regulated by the rules of procedure, I think it is better to regulate it by budget. The budget is brought at the beginning of the year, and the Rules of Procedure, I think, is more permanent. That's how much I've had, in principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5984	Thank you very much, since no one has answered, I think we are tired, but I also think that we have brought this debate to a quality end, and yet this is a draft, so I suggest that with these remarks that we return this draft to the promoter, he gives us his opinion, and then we will have another chance to give our opinions in the amendments. Here, if I wasn't precise, we adopt this draft, we make suggestions to the Proposer and that in the bill we have a chance to amend ourselves further on this draft law. Who's in? We should start at the end of the session. Who's against it? Does anyone mind? Unanimity. This bill was unanimously passed. Of the 24 present – 24 for. Thank you very much. Ad.5. Giving consent to ratification of the state border contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia I am opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5985	Mr. Chairman, if you remember, I had one intervention in the last session that resulted in the proposal, a suggestion to take this off the agenda, but then I realized that it might be better to go into the procedure and therefore I gave up on such an initiative, but now, in that sense, I would suggest the following. In June of last year, or July of last year, following the signing of the agreement that preceded it, an agreement called the "A Agreement on Priorities in the Implementation of the State Border Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH" was adopted. In the agreement, the obligations of 1.2 and 3 may be the best way to copy this agreement, that I do not read what these are obligations to be implemented by the end of 1999, so by January of this year, to create conditions for ratification of the state border contract between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. None of these three conditions, for whatever reason, something due to the illness of high-ranking officials, on the one hand, something else, mostly none of these conclusions, of the three conclusions of this agreement to date has been implemented. Since, about this agreement, here, about a year ago and adopted and signed and was left for about half a year, about the end of 1999, to realize these things in order to create conditions for the ratification of the contract. My proposal is for this assembly to conclude that the relevant institutions are asked to approach 118 of these conclusions and to put the deadline back to the end, but this year, so by the end of 2000, that the conditions for ratification of the contract be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5986	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone? Is anyone there? Is that over? Can we, with this finding, vote this one, that is, with these notes that Mr Dokić gave.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5987	My proposal is for the assembly to ask the relevant institutions of BiH and the Republic of Croatia to implement this agreement that was implemented in June – as a condition for signing the contract and to give the deadline as it was six months ago, i.e. by the end of this year, and only then to discuss the ratification of the contract. [[speaks from the place and is partially heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5988	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, now after what counterpart Dokić has said, I am interested in one thing, and that is whether the ratification of the border agreement between the two states is conditional upon this agreement, by this agreement, is it written there. If it is, then I will support this proposal. And if it isn't, then I'll think about it, because it's very serious stuff. It is about the borders of two sovereign states, the borders of two countries that need to develop friendly relations. Me and Mr Dokić and others were visiting together, as a parliamentary delegation, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and the highest representatives of the country and there we all expressed our wish and hope and intention to develop these relations to the end. It is the development of relations with all neighbouring countries, as the first priority of our foreign policy. So, I'd like to ask that, really, we clear these things up to the end, because I'm afraid we're starting to play a game in which this agreement is constantly being put on the agenda and the need to bring it here is being presented, and then we're constantly putting it off for some reason, that's how much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5989	Please, it's about quite precise, quite clear things. It is an agreement on priorities in implementing the State Border Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. It's about three things. It is in the valley of the Una River, the border crosses 13 times there and back, and both countries were in agreement with this agreement, that we do not read it, we can multiply it, to iron the state border in that part, the other part is in the area of Begluk Tiškovci and the Destroy, that's in the area, I think it's somewhere around Bihać and downstream, is, you have the right on that part and the third to establish a regime of soft border for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, who have a country on the one hand, and live on the other side, it's a soft crossing regime, that with a personal map these citizens, or I don't know as soon as possible, cross the state border. These are three priorities and agreements signed in English, and the guarantor, witnesses, in fact, witnessed the Office of the High Representative for BiH, here, I have here what the Deputy Prime Minister Ostoja Kremenović signed, if he, there is a signature here. Therefore, 119 wants to do so and to prepare for that border to be verified in the way it is in the interest of both states. I don't see any reason, I agree with MP Čaršimamović, no one would be healthy, it's a done deal, but if it can be improved and if the states are willing, there's no need to tell some authorities here, it's known that it's the responsibility of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, I think it's clearly precise and addresses the obligation to whoever should do it. That he's running this activity, and to sign those who can do it, I don't think there's any reason not to...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5990	The Republic has Mr. Čaršimamović, and then Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5991	I don't know if it's going to be called a replica, because it's positive, you know. I'm very glad to have a colleague of Banjac Kar-Blan? She agrees with me. Because when it gets along like that, I think it's going to go well in this BiH. So I didn't say anything but just raise my hand, but I want to say how much I understood my fellow Banjac, this is an agreement on the implementation of the contract. If it's a contract implementation agreement, I think we need to ratify it first, make it full, and then implement it. I understand that, but I didn't get a chance to see it, but you can explain it to me, I don't consider it a condition for ratification, and I think it would be a good idea for us to ratify it, and then, normally, to support it and to give them the deadline as my colleague Dokić told us to set it up, a six-month period to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5992	Ratification, it becomes official. We'd go back to the same thing again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5993	Are you going to read or am I misunderstood, the question was, that is, you said it was an agreement on the implementation of the contract. If it is an agreement on the implementation of the contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5994	It's about the priorities of implementation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5995	If it is about the priorities of the implementation, it must take effect first.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5996	Look here, these questions are said to be resolved and ratified. There's that one. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5997	Well, then read it to us to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5998	If we ratify something, then it becomes...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u5999	Comrade Banjac, today we had an objection to your behavior, to speak behind the pay phone, not from that place, so I'd like to ask you when I'm talking to you to let me finish, and then you can get out. I just asked the question, if it's an implementation agreement, about priorities in implementation, by my understanding, the contract must first be ratified and then applied. If that's not the case, I'm asking you to give it to us in full and explain it to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6000	I really didn't mean to debate this agenda point, I have to be honest. This came to me a little bit, but here, I took this contract and I see that the presidency stands in the title. So the Bureau sent Parliament to this House for ratification of the agreement. If we question this, we need to have a very clear argument, which is that these conditions are for ratification, it would be logical for me to give up ratification, and if not, then we remain either on ratification or, in a third case, and I could accept that until the next session, that the BiH Presidency is to interpret which of these acts is a priority and to solve this problem, because I am not about to play a little unseriously with the border agreement between the two countries, regardless of which two countries are being dealt with. It's too serious for us to act so we're looking for a reason, possibly, to postpone something, etc. And that's why I say we have three options. I will also accept this third one, that until the next session, the BiH Presidency, which has also referred us to the procedure, means it is behind the ratification of this, but once again to check whether the ratification of this is the first priority, and then these conditions of realisation of this contract that has been ratified or vice versa. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6001	Honorable MPs, I will immediately declare that I think we should ratify this contract at this session today. However, given the debate so far, I appreciate that a certain number of MPs will be, unless such a conclusion has been reached, as has now been suggested? Namely, the Proposer shall be made aware of this. So I would suggest that the ratification be postponed for the first next session, and that we get opinions on it from the promoter. 121
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6002	I'd like to read you what my colleague Čaršimamović asked for. Here, it's quite clear that there must be a state border in order to ratify it, it's quite logical, and there's a passage here that says this. The proposal to amend the state border, between the Republic of Croatia and BiH in those areas, lists the areas I read to you earlier, will be implemented by the interstate diplomatic commission as soon as possible and no later than the end of 1999. All that Branko said that they had been left with six months to do so, so that the state border could, and I accept this, I think that the BiH presidency should send this translation of the agreement and ask this question that was said here. No one cares if it's complicated. It's just a matter of work. But no one cares if we complicate what can be solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6003	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss? Okay. Do you agree to return this to the Presidency and an explanation for the next session, to plead on this ratification. Who's in? Who's against it? Please, don't understand this word coming back, that we're refusing, but that we're asking them for a solution. Here, I'm correcting myself here. Of the 24 present – 21 was for this proposal – two against. Therefore, this proposal has passed. We've finally got the sixth point. Ad.6. Answer MPs' questions and questions What we have, you have received, what you will ask, please. Mr. Čaršimamović, go ahead, then Mrs. Muminagić, then Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6004	I'd like to make a concrete proposal just to give, although I think that's why we should have it. I have a concrete suggestion. Today, to my personal satisfaction, and with the help of the SDA, we adopted the Programme of Work of this Parliament, normally, with all suggestions that were useful and at the same time we received a calendar of activities during the summer period. I would like to express my dissatisfaction with this calendar, because we are taking a two-month break in this House, and we have a lot of unfinished work left.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6005	Why two? From 1.8 to 1.9. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6006	And when's the next session? That's why I suggest that, since we already have in the draft several laws, which we haven't discussed today, and last time we haven't discussed, here's a very significant contract we haven't ratified today, and I think the condition for this border police work is that we have this ratified contract. My proposal is to schedule the next session no later than seven days, and to include in that session these laws that we have not so far, draft laws that we have not had in the debate so far, such as the Law on the Ombudsmans, the Law on Interethnic and Interstate Communications. All those laws that were, and if we didn't leave the date open like this, because we adopted a program that's very large and ambitious, we should fill it out and, normally, that session should be at the latest within seven days because, as I recall, we've previously received one of the same calendars that said that our next session was 11. - 24th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6007	But then we contacted, that we had exhausted all the proposals that went into the regular procedure, at least that's how the Secretariat and my services informed me, and that as soon as there was material, and if there was material, we would schedule a session. Is there anyone else? Suada Muminagić and Mara Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6009	I would like to ask one answer to the parliamentary question, from the College, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives created the possibility of forming a permanent committee of parliament to monitor and achieve gender equality. Could the College suggest the composition of this committee for the next session? My haste to form this commission is for the following reasons. After holding a special session of the UN General Assembly, which was called Beijing plus five, we have a lot of obligations that should be programmed and organised. In order not to keep you from doing that, I think the commission should, as much as start working tomorrow, because we have to do something, if we've already defined ourselves to have a permanent commission. I would ask, if you can, for the next session, to propose an essay, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm putting myself at my disposal to help, with what, of course, it's known to be done with the MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6010	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muminagić. Mrs. Perkanović, then Mr. Spahić. Suggestions of your written delivery, I beg you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6011	The first question is why there is no answer to my parliamentary question concerning the Law on Privatisation of Apartments in the Federation of BiH, under which 123 refugees and displaced persons, tenants of household law, are discriminated against, by setting only known conditions for privatisation, for which they must wait at least two years. This is not in line with the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH, Article 2, where they are guaranteed that they will not be discriminated against by the enjoyment of any rights on any basis. The issue was addressed to the government of the Federation of BiH, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as the OHR. Today's my question is to OHR. How is it possible to avoid and displaced persons from the Federation of BiH, at the request of the BiH Federation's housing rights, to get solutions with a negative response? Many even solutions to taking up housing rights. And another question, same to OHR. Why is it that the disputes of the refugees and displaced persons are freely, at their own free will, without conditions, subject to their own household law?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6012	With only one sentence, Mr. Chairman, I ask that Mrs. Bisera Turković, given the expressed differences in the public, which we have had the opportunity to hear from the foreign minister and Mrs. Turković, and otherwise, public assessments of the implementation of the Stability Pact, to get very serious information at the next session about what BiH's participation in projects is on all three round tables. First. Secondly, I demand that future journalists in this room be provided with normal working conditions, I have so many times requested and I ask the College to consider the conditions of their work with the secretary-general. Thirdly, I demand that everything possible be done with the channel 1, 2, and 3, with whom you want the College to request a meeting with representatives of the BiH level, entities, however you want, to deal with the OBN so that it can be a direct television broadcast to protect one of the...its flows of parliamentary democracy, it is the public's work. Thirdly, I expect that we will have, as you promised, immediately on the subject of economic and social policy in which we have reached a full consensus today and, please, for the end, I have pledged to make a request that BiH, I underline this, lost in my first discussion of BiH, apply for associated membership in the NATO Pact Parliamentary Assembly and ask that representatives of parliamentary parties ensure that three MPs are guests from July 9th to 16th in the NATO Pact in Brussels. It's about meeting at the highest level and we're committed to it and I'm asking the College to execute that decision. They already have candidates from all MPs' clubs and I'm asking you to do it right. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2000-06-22-0.u6013	I'm closing this session. Thank you for your cooperation and pleasant. The seat is closed at 19.05.
