ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4490	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 17th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to MPs, members of the BiH presidency, co-chaired and vice-chaired members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, Mr Drago Ljubičić, delegate to the House of Peoples of BiH, as proposing the draft election law, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representative of the FAR project, representative of the US Embassy in BiH. Representatives of public information funds were invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all those present and thank you for having found the time and will to be with us today. I especially welcome Ambassador Dr. Hofman, Deputy High Representative. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for being with us today and for helping, I hope, the successful work of Parliament. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are 30 MPs, 17 from the Federation of BiH and 13 from the RS. The absence from the session was announced by Ivo Mijačević and Bogić Bogičević for health reasons, Safet Oručević, due to the outstanding official obligations in Mostar and Ivo Divković due to the official route. Mrs. Suada Muminagić will be late for the session. Ljubomir Zovko is also away for a meeting. Haris Silajdžić is officially absent, only to see if there are any more, Karić Munir for pregnancy, maternity leave, we understand each other. It's already good and good luck, so she already has a baby. I said it, and I congratulated on behalf of Parliament, you didn't hear me. For this session, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest the following agenda: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 15th and 16th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives; 2nd. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, the Proposer of Parliaments Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković; 3. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. this is a mistake, not the Council of Ministers of BiH, but is proposed by MP Vito Rakić 4. Draft law on holidays and holidays in BiH, Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers 2 5. Draft of the BiH Election Law (a) Election Law, proposed by Drago Ljubičić in Draft and b) Draft of Election Law, Proposer of the SDP Club of MPs 6. Proposal for a Law on Public Imams of BiH, Proposing the Council of Ministers of BiH 7. Draft Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions 8. Providing consent to ratification (a) of the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and relevant environmental problems, and (b) of the Amendment No. 1 concluded between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 9. Answers to MP questions and questions from Members of the material for the proposed agenda points you received earlier, except for the record from the 16th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. I hope you've got the record delivered to the club. Dear gentlemen, I'm opening a debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4491	Dear ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, honored guests, the BiH presidency established a draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH ministries on 9 February. Since we at the College have not agreed to put this on the agenda as an emergency procedure, I propose, as an MP, that the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers and ministries, the BiH presidency's proposal, be put on the third item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4492	Like a dot. Who's on the phone? poslanik Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4493	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, on behalf of the SDP Assembly Club, I request that today's session, under point 3 be included in the initiative of a group of MPs to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. This initiative has been delivered to all MPs and in Parliament's procedure for several months and I think that after the delay in obtaining the time of consideration and the overall initiative, especially in the context of the current agenda, the review of the draft electoral law and the need for the BiH legislation to be adopted more intensively and to comply with the European Convention on Human Rights and all international conventions, I believe that this item should be found on the agenda today under number 3. At the same time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that the statement on this item of the agenda be carried out individually, given the importance of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4494	I propose that, of course today, since I see that he arrived in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which in this way works through ministers and is in line with the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, Foreign Trade Minister Mr Kurtović 3 Mirsad, finally back to the discussion of the PSBiH House of Representatives, what we have committed to both homes, which is economic and social policy. Secondly, I ask that we, representatives of the BiH Presidency, gentlemen who have promised to win at the January session, this is half of February, information on BiH's participation in the Stability Pact and the work of our delegates and delegations and teams in all three round tables, and that they present it to this parliament. It is unnatural for me, I insist on this for two months, that today's meeting of the Work Table on Security, without the BiH Parliament being informed of the basic issues relating to these three areas: human rights, security and the area, of course, concerning the overall activity of BiH in the Stability Pact. I ask that simply what was committed, six months ago or two months ago, finally be found before the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4495	Information about...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4496	It's a precise request, twice for this pay phone. Two months ago, a month ago from the BiH presidency, from the BiH Council of Ministers and the Foreign Ministry, information was requested in time, before the Sarajevo Work Table was held on security, that all three desks and especially on this work table should be given information to the BiH Parliament. The BiH Parliament accepted that. Representatives of the BiH presidency have committed themselves to this. The BiH Council of Ministers did not react negatively either, and I expected it to be presented today. It is not natural for the BiH Parliament, which adopted its resolution, to have no information on the course of events that is the most important priority of BiH, after entering the Council of Europe, and it is not normal for us to wait six months for the basic elements of economic and social policy by the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4497	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have just believed that perhaps for the first time our College has managed to reach a compromise on the agenda and that perhaps today's session of the Representative Council will be one of the most efficient, but as time goes on and on as MPs' proposals are being made, I believe that this session will last several times. So I've been thinking about whether it makes any sense for me to answer, but here, to make my humble contribution to stick to something we agreed on, at least in the previous sessions. First of all, I don't see the need to adopt the record from the 16th session because we got it a few minutes ago and I think it's quite unserious to ask us to adopt a record, which isn't a non-essential thing, about the discussions that were conducted on the Representative's Council, unless we're at least in a situation to read it. I agree that the minutes of the 15th session, which we received earlier, will be adopted and the 16th session will be adopted at the next meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 4 The second thing, if memory serves me, but, behold, you are here to help me, you know that this last session took place in three extensions, and that I was at the last meeting of the Representative's Council, before these numerous extensions, asking for one debate, which was also meaningful at the time, and it seemed to me to seek dialogue on the establishment of trust in BiH, and then the MPs asked that I be one of the points for visiting Mr Alija Izetbegović and Haris Silajdžić in writing, and then a small debate was held and we agreed that it would be one of the points at the first next session. Gentlemen, this is the first next session, and I don't see any reason why we should really agree on one thing at the Representative's Council, at the session, and the second one will be settled later. I don't think that visit is on the line of establishing confidence within BiH. This team before the level of human rights violations in Kosovo is so great that such visits and receptions represent direct support for Albanian terrorists in secession from Serbia, which in no way should be the official BiH policy, given its complexity from two entities and three constituent peoples, etc., and I think it is clear to everyone in this parliament. I ask that this conclusion be returned to the debate, as we have concluded at the previous session. The level of debate will show whether it's this conclusion or another, but let's at least stick to what we agreed. Of course, I ask point 5, the draft law on BiH institutions, to be removed from the agenda for not passing the Budget and Finance Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and to request that the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, therefore, Mr Marko Ašanin, submit the presentation when and at which session of the Council of Ministers is discussed on the constitutional basis for this law. We need to learn that the ministers whose resolutions are coming here and that they are submitting a report at which the session has been discussed, and not that through the Protocol of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is said that the constitutional basis exists. I'm asking for this agenda to be removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4498	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, I have come to comment on a proposal, which concerns the expansion of the agenda, including the proposal for a law on the ministry that came from the BiH presidency. I can say that this proposal is incomprehensible for at least two reasons, or at the very least, the proposal is inappropriate, for the simple reason that the Assembly entered into the procedure for the adoption of one law, it was almost at the end of the procedure to adopt that law, and that law went to reconciliation and within the second point of the agenda, MPs should be made aware of that law. At the end of a long procedure, to go with a proposal for a new law is to prejudge the MPs' decision on what they have discussed so far. I really don't think it's appropriate for any congregation in the world to work. The second reason I can't accept a proposal like this is the fact that we got that law fifteen minutes before this session began. It is a time for which indeed the MPs could not even read the text, let alone understand its message and its seriousness.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4499	Who's still answering for the discussion? No more. There's been a lot of suggestions, so let's get on with it. 5 Here some suggestions require an explanation. However, for example, removing a point from the Treasury's agenda, the draft law on BiH institutions, MP Špirić has voiced doubt that the constitutional basis for the law has not been established by the Council of Ministers of BiH at all and wants a statement from the minister in charge. I don't know if the minister will come. I've just asked the minister to come and say it publicly, because it's hard to plead in a situation like this right now. I don't know if you understand me that this is very difficult. We can only plead when the minister arrives, unless one of the ministers present has information that can be declared. Second, we can vote. You have heard the argument, I would not particularly like to give, although some of the promoters have not made a precise suggestion where to place a single point. I understand it needs to be placed before the point, or after the sixth point. Whoever didn't make the proposal, that's how they'll be placed, in the order you said, if it passes. Mr Genjac's proposal was to be included in the agenda of the Bill on the Council of Ministers and ministries of BiH, the BiH Presidency's proposal, which, as you heard, was put before the MPs 10-15 minutes ago, I still have to say I still don't have that law in front of me. As the third item of the agenda, and I ask how many there are present. I'm asking the Service to deliver that law to me. Here I have it, now it's delivered. It's like a third point. How many MPs are present? - 31. We have 31 MPs present. Who is to include the draft law on the Council of Ministers and BiH ministries as the 3rd item of the agenda, the BiH presidency's proposal. I'm asking who's in? - 20 Who's against it? 3 abstentions — 8 Is There Any Notice? Four are against it. Then there are seven abstentions. We vote on entities. From the Federation of BiH, who is in order for this law to be classified as point 3. – 18 From RS – 2 No required entity majority from RS, we can only agree, but that alignment does not interfere with what I said. So the point is not included. Within three days, we'll agree to the position and put that point on the next session, which is for sure, it's not disputed. The second proposal was MEP Sejfudin Tokić to include the Group of MPs' initiative on the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights as the third item of the agenda. The MP asked to vote individually. I ask the MPs in line: Alagić Raifa – for Branković Nedžad – for Čaršimamović Tarik – for Filipović Mediha – for Genjac Halid – for Jahić Adnan – for Kadić Rasim – for 6 Neimarli Hilmo – for Pamuk Mustafa – for Spahić Ibrahim – for Lagumdžija Zlatko - for Tokić Sejfudin – for Havel Ana – abstentioned because the material is not prepared Pašalić Ivica - abstentioned Skopljak Pero Dokić controlled Anita Mikulić – abstentioned Banjac Mirko – abstentioned Lozančić Ivo – for Bećrabasić Smail - for Malkić Abdurahman – for Balta Radenko – against Mirković Deretić Dragan against Bošnjak Milenko – abstenka – abstenka – against Branko – against Jovanović – against Rakić Vito – against Rakić Vito – against Miro Mirko clearly against Mirić – against the same as well. Perkanović Mara – v Rađević Desanka – v Špirić Nikola - v Has the service gathered? Fifteen MPs voted for this proposal. It was against nine. Supported 7. The law didn't get an entity majority, I'm sorry, no point proposal was received either by entity or by a half majority. Proposals from MP Spahić. The first proposal is to include today's debate on economic and social policy in BiH. The point of economic and social policy in BiH. I must ask the MP. The clear conclusion of this House, the House of Representatives, sir, is not to put an end to the agenda if the material on that point has not been delivered to the Members of the Rules of Procedure provided for by the deadline. So I don't think there are any business conditions to do that. However, if, the minister wanted something.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4500	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as the conclusion from one of the previous meetings of the House of Representatives, we have taken as an obligation to make one material that will be one of the starting grounds for discussing this issue. This is what we're already working on. I hope that we will quickly bring to an end work material that we will distribute and, of course, first to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and then the Council of Ministers of BiH is an institution that should be referred to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that is, the PSBiH House of Representatives. In that respect, I can only say that this is what you're working on. If 7 material had not been finished, I would have asked for a little patience and MP Spahić and others. I agree this is very important. However, this is a very complex and very difficult question and that is the only reason why it was not so quickly found on the agenda, i.e. complete information is not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4501	Let's hear from MP Spahić, see if he pulls the motion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4502	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot withdraw what is the joint decision of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, which they have signed, as a request to the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Banjac and Mr Žigić, on the initiative of the MPs, who accepted it, and all of us. I don't think I'm looking for another vote on this issue. I am asking for a simple deadline, to see if we have the capacity in the BiH Council of Ministers to finally put it on the agenda and that is what we have the right as MPs to get. We've been asking the same question for six months now, and we're getting the same answer for six months. The BiH Council of Ministers simply has to stand behind something. If it can't stand behind this, I don't know what the substance of the BiH Council of Ministers' work is, and we have at least three to five proposals for the BiH Council of Ministers' Law so far. I am not withdrawing, but simply asking for a deadline to be set by Mr. Chairman, along with his members of the College, can also be imposed by Mr. Žigić and members of the House of Peoples Colleges by the Council of Ministers of BiH as a responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4503	We will intervene in writing once more. As soon as they deliver, we'll put it on the agenda, it's not at all controversial. That's settled. Your next proposal was information on the results of the roundtable debate within the Stability Pact Conference for Southeast Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4504	It's not exactly like that, but now I'm not going to say it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4505	I summed it up, in that sense, because you've been talking for a long time, so I had to sum up that one sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4506	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I would just like to inform you that, upon receiving Mr Spahić's request, we have taken everything to make a report and the BiH Presidency has considered the full activity report within the Stability Pact, all the working tables, established a platform for the performance of the BiH representative on this working table, which is held in Sarajevo and I can only promise that the report and the platform, the report on this work table, will be delivered for the first 8th session, because we have not set a deadline until when it is due to be delivered. We've received it in a month and I think we're maximum, and you're going to get one complete, complete and very extensive written report that has at least 30-40 pages. I'm asking for the next session and I'm taking that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4507	It went into the stenogram, we heard everything, and I think it's okay. We heard, if delivered, there's no problem. I only ask that it be delivered, that it can be delivered to the MPs seven days before so that we can fulfil our business obligation. It follows MP Špirić's proposals to remove the minutes from the 16th session from the proposed agenda, since MPs did not study the minutes so that they could decide properly on the minutes. How many of us do we have here? - 31 and on. Who is for this, or for the 16th session to be postponed for the next session? - 23. Against abstentions 8 per entity. Who's for the Federation of BiH? – 11 From RS – 11 From the Federation of BiH voted 11 and from RS voted 11, there is also a necessary entity majority from both entities, so the minutes were removed from the debate. Mr Špirić's second proposal was to draw conclusions on the visit of Hashim Tačija to BiH. He specified Mr. Alija Izetbegović and Mr. Haris Silajdžić. We have 31 present. Is 31 still there? Thank you. Who is to put this conclusion to the earlier Decision in the agenda? - 17 Who's against it? - 4 versus 10 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - From the RS when he's in? – 11 Since there were only 6 for the Federation of BiH, there is no need, there is no entity majority from the Federation of BiH, this conclusion has not passed. They'll agree for the next session. Mr Špirić's next proposal is about... We have a proposal for the Kolegijum, given that there is no Minister of Ašanin yet, and I have a notice that when we get to that point of the agenda, is the Proposer agreed that, if there are no reports to take it off the agenda, then to vote on the download. But let's complete those two and then we'll vote right when we get to that point. Were you agreed to vote then? The promoter agrees. We'll vote then. We will discuss the Kolegijum's proposal, modified by this point, the 16-session record, which will not go into the agenda, vote on it, conditionally be on agenda and item 5. Draft law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. When we get to that point, we'll make a statement about staying or stripping, when we hear the report and the minister in charge of these matters. So the fate of that point will be determined by the vote when it reaches that point of the agenda. What do you want now? 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4508	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to help us come to a solution. I, as a promoter, accept that the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications is made clear on how to reach a constitutional basis and when it was, when it comes. We vote for the agenda without it. If he comes and we come forward and we plead, because there can be no agenda determined by one point formally unconfirmed. We agree that these points of the agenda go one, as they are sorted, and that we leave that point, if the promoter comes to us to agree, whether we put it as an additional item of the agenda or not. There's no point in us discussing the point I'm looking for, and there's no pronoun here. I'm looking for a download on the agenda until the promoter gets here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4509	I apologize, before you answer, MP, I suggest you just stop for a moment. I'd like to say hello to Mr. Beri who just joined us. Thank you very much. Here, and MPs join my greetings. MP, there's no business opportunity like you're looking for.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4510	I ask that the agenda be removed because there is no one to explain on behalf of the promoter, the Budget and Finance Commission has not established.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4511	But there's another business option, please let me say something. There is a possibility of business that the agenda and during the session can be extended. So someone's gonna be able to do it in progress. That's what the Interim Rules say. What can I do? Now we're going to vote on taking it off. How many MPs are present? He's proposing to take off his clothes. He suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4512	We can't propose to take off something that hasn't been adopted. Here we have a proposal from the College. The College established one draft agenda, based on available information and established procedures, as the College usually does. I ask Parliament to make a statement about the College's proposal, and then all these remarks, of course, come within the agenda, but this is the College's proposal and I ask that the College's proposal be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4513	Mr. Genjac, you're wrong. Here's what you're wrong about. You're wrong, because then we'd have to leave the record from the 16th session, and we didn't leave it by your logic. The MP has the right to request that the item be removed from the agenda proposed. It's his parliamentary right. Not to get into the agenda. So the point doesn't get into the agenda, whatever you want. He's got a business opportunity. We're pleading on the agenda. This means that the MP has the right to request that what is in the proposal not be included in the agenda, 10 individual points. He has that right, I guarantee you, and we can, here, for a moment stop and ask for a break for the Constitutional Commission to declare it. If it's necessary, we'll do it. I just don't want us to make mistakes. The minister wanted to say something first.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4514	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any fundamental reason why this agenda item should not be discussed today. The BiH Council of Ministers has laid down this law unanimously, I must say. For this text were all ministers, all deputies, co-chair and chairman. One of the previous sessions did not discuss this law because legal reasons were not given. It is given now and I don't see, really, the reason why the Law, that is, considering this point today would be removed from the agenda and why we wouldn't make any remarks if there were any. I don't think so, and Mr Špirić will agree, a particular reason because the explanation was subsequently given to be removed from the agenda, especially what from this, whether we will adopt or not this law, is a set of other obligations that BiH needs to make vis-à-vis financial institutions with which to work further, with our commitment that we want to have more transparent budgets and all financial transactions within BiH and abroad. I would therefore ask Mr Špirić and others to keep this item on the agenda, to discuss it, and here I am, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, ready every constructive proposal to accept and try to agree to be in spirit with what this Parliamentary Assembly concludes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4515	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'd like to ask MP Špirić, does he accept the explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4516	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to introduce you that I was a member of the expert group to draft this bill, so this problem is not my side. We were then told that in seven days, the law must be completed and delivered to the BiH Council of Ministers. From the last session of the expert team, when we all agreed, to the appearance of the text of the law, it's been three months, to get what we didn't agree on, and I'll only talk about it when it comes to the agenda. I have information that the constitutional basis we have received has not passed the debate at the BiH Council of Ministers. I ask that the BiH Council of Ministers plead. I'm looking for a session to discuss constitutional grounds. When I get that, we can move on. We must also seriousise the BiH Council of Ministers. That's enough of the wrong play. You know, when Mr. Beri comes, with full respect for the representatives of the international community or someone from the Office of the High Representative, then those ministers who give false hopes can't be here. I just want us all to get serious about this job. Nikola Špirić is not an obstacle to constructive discussions and coming to legal projects, everyone has to understand that, but I am for those who are on this job to debate face-to-face. One story cannot come to me as an MP, another to a representative of the international community, the third to you in the Council of Ministers. I think it has to be serious. That's why 11 I'm asking for a takedown, with respect for needs. It may be an ideal legal project, but one thing must be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4517	Can anyone respond to these dilemmas from the Council of Ministers? First answer, shall we, MP?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4518	Dear MPs, today no one can speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers, because by decision of the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers is illegal. About whether the bill on the Council passed unanimously, I would not want to speak, because I know the truth about what was going on there, I know our doubts, I just say that the deputies have no right to vote at Council meetings and I can't be there and I know the deputy who were second-guessing from what is being presented here today, but I also know some ministers. So I would suggest that this debate be postponed for another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4519	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives pays the price of relations in the BiH Council of Ministers and the relationship between such a Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament. But I will remind you that this draft, i.e. the Law, was held at the last session and when the Constitutional Commission intervened, because of the lack of written reasoning, or constitutional basis, was removed from the agenda and the constitutional basis was requested. Meanwhile, the BiH Council of Ministers has sent us a letter stating the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and I would remind you that this law, therefore, is one of the conditions of BiH institutions, i.e. at least one stage of BiH's reception conditions. I don't know if anything has changed in the meantime and there are some things changing, and secondly, it is part of the work programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I would therefore like to express my disagreement with the delay in considering and adopting this law, but also, although it is not on the agenda, I would like to inform the PSBiH House of Representatives that today the Constitutional Commission has not made a qualified decision that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, but has divided in vote 3 to 3, regardless of which, I believe that this is one of the important laws and that it should be approached in a way to reach the law rather than not to reach the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4520	Dear Members of the Parliament, you are now putting me, as chairman, in a very awkward position. Today, we have had very conflicting statements about the fact that the Council of Ministers unanimously led to the fact that it was not. We got another piece of information that, at the very least, confuses us, is that the text prepared by the expert group has changed and that it has not been announced here who did this and with what intentions, with which purpose and with which arguments. You, as an MP and as chairman, are putting me in a very awkward position. I now have to honor my business obligation, and that is to say, Ambassador Špirić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4521	I'd only like to say one thing. The BiH Council of Ministers, when setting out drafts, proposes any legal document, then does so on a proposal or from some resolution ministry, or on a proposal by the working group it appoints, when it comes to laws that define and determine some important issues that affect both the ministry's portfolio and the third. The proposal, or draft, made by a working group or ministry, does not oblige the BiH Council of Ministers when establishing a final draft, or a final proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to be in the original form. Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers was not obliged to adopt the proposal by the expert group, which made the draft of the Treasury Law in its original form. During the debate led to the BiH Council of Ministers, taking into account all the arguments that arise, the necessary parts, new members, etc., are being built on and built on, as probably happened in this case. There's nothing in the procedure that's been disturbed. The BiH Council of Ministers has taken on the basis of a proposal from the expert group, completed certain things, and has referred the bill to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as such. So there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4522	Here, based on what I've heard from you, I have two suggestions that we need to make known, so let's see which one you're going to be for, because you're at the end of the proposal. I've come to understand your proposal that votes are being taken off the agenda, and on the basis of what I've heard now, these dilemmas, I would suggest, if you allow the point to be postponed for one of the other sessions, to obtain this information that is missing, and to delay its resolution, and not to take it off indefinitely.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4523	First next. Can we say so, take it off for the first next session?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4527	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for the Commission that has agreed, in this case it is the College. Mr Banjac's argument states that the Commission has not reached agreement on these two laws, but has reached agreement on the draft law on holidays and with the addition of Mr Genjac, so that the bill is amended, i.e., by respecting the opinions of MPs and the College. I don't know what you're talking about. Please, why didn't you take the same position on all three laws that you had different opinions and you're giving comments to the motions to make the bill count, or drafts, depending on what act it is, so that it takes care of what you're saying, or what your views are. I'd just like a little clarification, given that we don't have any practical documents regarding your consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4528	I think your question is fine, just, please, that you might read something more accurate. In the first two cases, it is a proposal and if agreement had been reached, the proposal would have become a law. In this case it's a draft, so there's time to fix it, while making a proposal, that's just the difference.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4529	I don't know, this report on the effort to reach agreement was supposed to be shared with the MPs. Report of an effort to reach agreement, has it been delivered to the MPs? Please, Ad.3. Let me just remind you. At last session, about the holiday law, we reached one conclusion that did not get the necessary entity majority. We agreed on the conclusion and reached agreement, and that conclusion 15 reads that the draft law, with observations, suggestions, suggestions highlighted at the session, is the basis for the draft proposal and to be delivered to the promoter. I think it's clear to Ambassador Kadić. Our proposal is the end of the story, and the draft is not the end, there are still possibilities. I'm reading a stenogram, and all comments will be made. We're going to the vote. We do not have a debate on these proposals on which no agreement has been reached. There is no debate here, MP, no debate on these matters, these two. When we're done voting, I'll give you my word. You received it and look at the Rules of Procedure. We're voting now and there's never been a vote, and the College is unanimous here, so it's the Rules of Procedure. The college is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4531	Speak from the site Take the stenogram, last time you opened the debate, but no problem at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4532	What do you want now? Well, we took a stand. The Kolegijum unanimously took a stand, not me, but the Kolegijum. Ambassador, I don't have time to argue on that subject. How many are here? – 31 Who is the legislator of Parliament Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković for the amendment and addition of the Law on travel documents? - 20 got most of it. Who's against the Federation of BiH? – Niko protiv from the RS – 10 Law was received, in fact, the proposal was not accepted because it was against 10 MPs from the RS, which is more than two-thirds and therefore not accepted this proposal. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer... It's about the intervention on the vote, not the debate. You've been talking for five minutes and I'm not giving you my word. I don't understand you, sir, do you hear what you're saying. The MP has the right to request individual statement. I repeat that the MP is requesting an individual statement and will receive it. Here, MP Desanka Rađević requests a single vote, and I respect the MPs. We are voting on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Vita Rakić. Bećirbašić Smail – v Branković Nedžad – abstentioned by Perkanović Tarik – v 16 Filipović Mara – v Genjac Halid – v Jahić Adnan – v Kadić Rasim – abstentioned by Neimarlija Milenka – abstentioned by Pamuk Mustafa – abstentioned by Spahić Nikola – abstentioned by Lagumdžija Zlatko – abstentioned by Muminagić Suada – abstentioned by Špirić Sejfudin – for Rađević Banjac- abstentioned, given the new circumstances Pašalić Desanka – abstentioned by Bošnjak Pero – abstentioned by Rakić Miodrag – abstensed by Malkić Mirko – abstenčić Lozančić – abstencije Ivo – abstenc – abstentioned by Mra Mirko Mirkožić for Mirković – Mra Dragan – Noožić for Deretić. 11 for, 14 abstentions and 6 against. This situation is very complicated. So, in my opinion, I'm going to say one thing now, that I'm looking for a constitutional committee statement before I declare this, because it's said to be two-thirds against it. This law in the first round got most of it, if you remember, and I ask that the Constitutional Commission pleads on this issue. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Let me let you know about this part. We are now, the Constitutional Commission has not met, or have not accepted to discuss, to clarify this problem. They thought it should be done by the College, with the Sekretarijat. I called the Kolegijum and the sekretarijat, and that's where the opinions were divided. Two members thought it was over, one that it wasn't, and I asked with the request of OHR representatives, because the interpreter is the OHR Constitution. The High Representative is an interpreter of the Constitution. Yes or no, I can't get used to it now. I asked the Office of the High Representative not to declare this decision, but to have them give an opinion. What they say, I'll take it. Please understand. I don't know what to do in a given situation. This is the first time we've had a situation like this. We're going to have a legal interpretation now. Our members of the Secretariat also have shared opinions, and let me tell you, and none of them 17 of them are sure what's going on and I ask you to accept that we postpone the declaration because you're going to put me in an awkward position. I don't know what to do. I would ask you, and the gentleman from the Office of the High Representative has accepted that he will give us his opinion. After that, I'll call, if I have to, and the Kolegijum and the Constitutional Commission and I'll ask her to do, see how she does, but don't make me declare something that neither you nor I are certain of, please, if we can move to the next item of the agenda, and that this declaration, just leave the declaration for...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4533	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I have come to ask to enter the minutes, in a way that prevents the chairman from treating all MPs under the same conditions, i.e. allowing all MPs to participate in the work, to give a word, i.e. disabling words to a certain MP depending on the personal position that the chairman has in the context of the debate, including this unnecessary cause of alleged chaos, partial reading and the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, it is clear what the result of the vote is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4534	Ambassador, I warn you that I did not cause chaos, if you continue in that direction, I will take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4535	I would ask that this be entered in the minutes and we will definitely agree on measures for the next session that would allow this Parliament to work normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4536	I beg you once again, gentlemen of the Parliament, to accept this position of mine. I don't want to be wrong. I'll accept what interpretation it will be by the OHR Office, so I'll accept it, and I'll make that decision, I promised them, gentlemen of the OHR, and here I am saying here. This is the situation, if we could solve it, like the Kolegijum, we would solve it. If the sekretarijat could have helped to get rid of it, it would have helped. It couldn't be resolved, we're asking for legal help. There's no shame in asking for help. I suggest we go to the third point, but before the third point, he wants to address the respected Mr. Beri within the third point, so before we cross, we give Mr. Beri our word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4537	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for this opportunity and opportunity to address you before considering the draft election law. I want to say I have a meeting soon, so I'm gonna have to leave, but I intend to go back, to participate in the draft election law debate. I would like to say that OHR and the OSCE continue to stand by the current form, namely the draft of the electoral law, as the basis for parliamentary procedure. In fact, the law is a product of 18 months of work by domestic and international experts. It was reviewed by the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, the Peace Implementation Council Management Board. It has also been reviewed by many experts from OSCE member states and is fully in line with European standards. It is also in line with the BiH Constitution. We have discussed, or discussed this Electoral Law, individually and grouply, with the representatives of this body. We held debates within the College, then with the presidents of parliamentary clubs and individual representatives, or political party leaders. We also put together 30 pages of answers to the comments, or comments from this body. We were trying to create an atmosphere of compromise, that is, the atmosphere of taking and giving. For that reason, we left out chapter 8. An election law relating to the election of members of the BiH presidency, as the election of BiH presidency members will not be held until 2002. On this occasion, I want us not to change our view and attitude on the BiH Constitution, that part of the Constitution relating to the election of members of the BiH presidency. As we see the situation, there are two ways to change the way members of the BiH presidency are elected. One way is through constitutional amendments, another way is in line with the decision taken by the BiH Constitutional Court in the section concerning the BiH presidency's election. This does not mean that our intention is to adopt, or achieve such an electoral law that does not cover the BiH presidency's election chapter, but only to leave out, for now, since the BiH presidency's election will not take place until 2002. You who I met with, both individually and in groups, means party representatives, you can remember that you said that we mostly agree, up to 90, up to 95% of the Election Law. Those 5 to 10% who disagree on the election law, these opinions differ from party to party. Let me also point out that last week, the Peace Implementation Council Steering Board stressed that, without a valid Election Law, or a valid Election Law, there is no, in fact, involvement in the Council of Europe. Also, as stated in the Communication of the Management Board of the Peace Implementation Council, there is no intention for the Office of the High Representative to impose an Electoral Law. So the problem is in your hands and you can't avoid it. So how to proceed with this issue is, in fact, to adopt that this law, to go into parliamentary procedure, and then to have a discussion in terms of what to change, which amends to change. I think we're actually close to a compromise, just not in the part about taking and giving. Some here at this table, their attitude was that, when we came to the question of taking and giving, they said that, we agree with that principle, you give, we take. I think we need to be above this if we really want to have the Election Law and if we want BiH to enter the Council of Europe. So you keep in mind that we are not asking you to adopt this law now, but to adopt its entry into the procedure and to think and to suggest the changes that you think should be involved. This law will result in what you want, and that is the responsibility of the chosen, then transparency and skill. This law is very important, so I ask you to pay attention to it and adopt it into parliamentary procedure and to continue to think about it and its changes. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4538	Thank you, Mr. Beri. I would now like to give a word to the President of the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs to submit a report before the debate opens. President of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4539	I thank you, it is not easy to sit next to Mr Ibrahim Spahić. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission held a session today and on the agenda had a draft of BiH's electoral law, proposed by Drago Ljubičić and the SDP MP, as this is one item of the agenda. Although there have been a lot of heated discussions on the Commission, the Commission has concluded that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the BiH Election Law and in one and the other cases, but the Commission has not entered into individual, concrete matters when it comes to one or the other Election Law and the Commission is giving its position in this regard, and some of the members of the Commission, as MPs, will be made more concrete about the Law at the sitting itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4540	I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Sub-paragraph (a). We have problems, to solve them right now, which is that Mr. Drago Ljubičić is not present even though he was invited to this session, but that's why the gentlemen here are from, I didn't think so, there's a gentleman who worked on the text of this law and I think, personally, I think, if the colleagues from the College agree, that a debate can be held. My colleagues from the College agree that a debate is being held.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4541	Gentlemen of the chairman, fellow MPs, I am one of those MPs who voted in favour of the previous version of the BiH Election Law Draft. He, as you know, didn't pass, now we have a new version. I really can't keep my mouth shut without saying that this new version makes me less satisfied, that some solutions are not satisfied at all. I've also talked to my election base, which is about the impressions I'm expressing on their behalf. However, I only went out because, and I am particularly pleased that Mr. Beri is present now, and he will hear it, to say that I cannot accept it, I am not satisfied with Mr. Beri's explanation regarding the abandonment of the decision in Chapter 8. relating to the election of members of the BiH presidency. I can understand that a solution could have been offered that doesn't satisfy someone, it pleases someone, but it leaves out what, minors, from letter to letter, from point to point in the Constitution, and it was enough just to rewrite them as it is in the Constitution and call on that Constitution, and leave it out with an explanation, so they won't be elected for two years, so we'll do something about it. Well, then, I'm a little freaked out and this extra explanation, I can't repeat the exact expression, but, uh, we didn't have any bad intentions or any last thoughts, it's going to be the way it's going to be in the Constitution. I protest, we already have the Constitution, and now this is already written in the Constitution, and I don't know why this would not be written here, and we all know that the Constitution is a variable of matter, so if one of these reasons that Mr. Beri has stated to either the amendments or the Constitutional Court decision of BiH is to make some kind of change that would condition the change and this chapter, then it would be on the agenda before the assembly of the Parliamentary House of 20 of BiH, which would then be elected and existed. I went out to protest, I can't understand that one draft law can be offered without a chapter that's not in the Constitution at all valid and existing discussion, it's absolutely not discriminatory and why leave it out. Otherwise, there are a lot of things in this draft that are not satisfactory to me, and I believe that others will take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4542	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rađević. Integrated text, original is your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4543	To be copied from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4544	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4545	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to believe that today we are at this session of the BiH Council of Representatives closer than yesterday to entering this draft into a further debate procedure concerning BiH's Permanent Election Law. In previous days, I would say a week after the last meeting of the PSBiH Representative Council, inter-party consultations and debates were held on the line of reaching certain compromises and what I think a serious lack was that there were no compromises between the parties, but compromises between the parties and the OHR. This is not a good technique when it comes to legal projects for BiH. I think, as far as I'm concerned, I've been saying since the beginning, that this draft of the electoral law has put a great deal of energy, a great deal of effort, and, behold, I would like to try, if possible, to ask the promoter, although today Mr Ljubičić has no, that perhaps one position in this draft would be put in place to say that the election of BiH presidency members will be in line with the Constitution of BiH, so that we do not prejudge what constitutional solutions will be, whether there will be a change of constitution or not, that it will be in accordance with the Constitution, and that, as far as I am concerned, it is acceptable, I will personally support this rest at today's meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. But I would ask that the motionary be made clear, is it possible to enter into this draft only one sentence defining the choice of members of the Bureau of the Council, to say that the choice will be in accordance with the Constitution and everything else is, as far as I'm concerned, acceptable. Of course, it is only a draft that has a chance to become a proposal, and I think all MPs will have a chance to make amendments, try to change it, adapt it to the situation, that is, to get to the best legal solution regarding the permanent election law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4546	Dear Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am, in fact, very sorry that Mr. Beri has left now, because I just had my discussion, in fact, I was going to point it right at him, given his discussion, here behind this microphone. 21 In fact, I wanted to repeat something that I repeat for ten days at these meetings that we had between these meetings of the Representative Council. In fact, my basic question was really one unusual way of gymnastics, as some colleagues here sometimes say, when it comes to the draft of a permanent electoral law. Why do I say that? You are well aware of the way in which the first proposal came, how the second proposal for a permanent electoral law came. Unfortunately, they didn't get support, they didn't get into the procedure. However, here is the most important and I am extremely sorry that there is no proposing, Mr Drago Ljubičić, to explain to the MPs how the third version came to be here, here, I will say new versions of the permanent electoral law. It's really a shame, and I think it's worth it, that we as MPs hear it here. I'm particularly irritated, and I'm particularly interested, and that's why I thought that Mr. Beri, well, would like to hear back from me, who they consulted and whose suggestion they left this chapter eight behind. Why am I saying this? I voted in favour of the draft electoral law as proposed by OHR, or Drago Ljubičić, as an official promoter, with the fact that I really had a terrible amount of reservations that I have already made here and said about this assembly. However, I can't help but think that all the time the representatives of the international community are trying to convince us, or me, that it is formally right and normal to leave out a chapter that, according to the Constitution of BiH, is imminent and as such must be found in the Electoral Law. In this context, that is indeed so, I will only be free to read here, very briefly, from the Constitution of Article 4, point 2, suba) Members of the House of Representatives are elected directly from their entities in accordance with the Election Law. It's about the one and only. The same is true when it comes to Article 5, members of the BiH presidency will directly choose each entity, in accordance with the Electoral Law. He doesn't know the BiH Constitution anymore. It is not possible in two legislative projects, to regulate the choice of representatives in the most legislative body of BiH, and in another regulation that regulates the same matter to regulate the choice of members of the BiH presidency. However, given that we are really in one specific situation, it is indisputable and I am absolutely one of those like all colleagues, I will not say most, but all here fellow MPs, who surely agree with the fact that we must adopt a permanent electoral law and I am the same in this context, and in this context, at the head, I am going to say it with a heavy heart here, but I would support the proposal here, here, Mr Špirić, with the fact that, however, I would, as it is, the proposal of this new, future draft, however, come into a position to discuss it, and in the course of further discussions, we will surely be in position, through the amendments, when this draft comes to the stage of the proposal, that, through amendments, we point to some of its shortcomings, suggestions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4547	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that it seems to me that we are really getting close, I don't know how to express it quite in percentages, as Mr. Beri and the representatives of the political parties who have spoken about whether it's 90% or 95%, because, you know, it's enough that one member is not in agreement and that there is no compromise, how much it's a percentage relative to the total or meaning of the law itself. I don't normally understand many people who do math in this kind of politics. 22 Essentially, for me, of course, it's significant that we have three laws. Today we have two laws, under a) and under b) and we have a third law that I received from Mrs. Ana Havel today. As I understand it, with this first law, under a) we have received a proposal for an amendment, on the proposal of the law by the SDP. Before I decide, I would like to know whether this SDP Club considers this bill, with the beginning of amendments, on their part, as a Club, to be put in the process, as a draft or as a proposal. I think it's some kind of technical mistake, whether they typed here or in the SDP, but I don't think we can work with amendments to the bill, since we didn't let the bill go. If you pay attention to the point a), the only concrete amendments and proposals and attitudes we have by the SDP, and in recent weeks we have only received in this discussion on compromises written proposals, mainly from the SDP. So I would pray that there would be no misunderstanding, in the discussion under point (a) that this matter would be formally resolved, because I don't think it stands, or does not stand in good reading, when it comes to services or does not stand in proposing amendments to a proposal that hasn't yet arrived in any form as a proposal. That's one formal remark. Another position I want to make regarding the discussion of the article, Chapter 8. A draft electoral law regulating the provisions for the election of members of the BiH presidency, with an explanation given by Mr Beri and regarding the positions we have now heard from fellow MPs. I, of course, when there is a statement on whether we will give in the procedure this law, draft the law, so put it in the procedure as proposed by Mr Beri, or the draft law proposed by the SDP, certainly, as well as the other colleagues I will plead, either individually, either as we have already decided as Parliament. In order for me not to prejudge anything, I would like to say what I have not heard, and I have not considered it important so far, until this moment, to put it as an opinion, as an MP, on the issue of Chapter 8. Draft election law. You know that on one of these discussions, those who participated, representatives of the political parties in the OHR, in the OSCE, it was open, the issue of national minorities of Jevrej, roma and others, that Mr Drago Ljubičić, who proposed this bill, agreed in one debate, here most of the representatives of political parties were present, that this is an important issue and that we must in some way install him in the Electoral Law, in order to protect the equal rights of BiH citizens. This is the starting point of a compromise on the Constitution concerning citizens and all peoples and their equality and national minorities, therefore, for every man in BiH. For me, it was a starting point to raise one question that was also of particular importance before deciding. You can see that the dispute is not only being conducted in terms of whether the BiH Constitutional Court, before our opening of a final debate on amendments and the draft of this election law, will be a statement on constitutionality or not. It is already something that has been accepted in principle, if it comes and when it comes, without prejudge, we will accept changes to the BiH Constitutional Court which has done so in a number of cases, it will also act on a request relating to constitutionality. Since all the political parties, as far as I know publicly, have stated on these debates about this law, that they are entirely on the side of the full consistency of the people in BiH and that everyone defends the consistency of the people and the citizens of BiH, equality, I wanted to ask the question. Is the essence, however, here with us this debate about the BiH Presidency being substantial, regarding the 23rd character of our division of power between the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency's executive power, the judiciary and all that is meant in one normal parliamentary democracy. Has it not shown for example, and on several examples so far, that BiH has moved the fundamental ones, I would say, the basis of the distinction between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and whether this parliament has fallen into a trap because it does not play between the political oligarchies of the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers and what they are about, and what is expressed in a parliament such as the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Isn't it, in fact, essential that the final debate began after so many years on whether BiH is building a presidential system or BiH will build a parliamentary system in the process of democratisation of civil society? Will this parliament take more and more responsibility to do the executive power of what it is tasked with and to build up judicial authority, what is its task, and thus to bring these issues down to the real, normal frameworks of relations between the BiH Parliament, the BiH Presidency, the Executive Council, or the BiH Council of Ministers and the judiciary? Finally, I think it is very interesting that the key issue is directly or indirectly raised by this debate, thanks, first of all, to several proposals for electoral laws, thanks to the proposal of the electoral law given by OHR and the OSCE, thanks to the SDP proposal and Mrs. Ana Havel. Issues have been opened, which will one day simply have to be presented to the citizens, as the basis of their political organisation in the coming period. I feel, indeed, that the preconditions have been created, given the statement I heard from Mr Draga Ljubicic, Mr Drago Ljubičić, I am sorry that he is not here today, and I am sorry that the representatives of the OHR, or the OSCE, had to leave, but it seems to me that two fundamental issues are open and that there would be no obstacle to finding a compromise during this session, without undermining both this draft and the draft, which will later be on the agenda, to come up with a procedure that will ultimately make BiH a stable, normal democracy, as I expect, following a serious debate on what the character of the democratic society in BiH and what is democratisationd and in these relations in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4548	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the chairman, on the draft of the electoral law that is before us, Drago Ljubičić's Election Law and at all the agenda points under a) and b), but I will focus, first of all, on a), I would like to make a few clarifications about the materials that you have here and for the amendments that we have provided, i.e., to answer, in addition to what I was going to say, on a few questions that my colleague Spahić has asked and to disable any possible confusion that could arise from any misunderstanding, which of the papers we have in front of us. First of all, I would like to say that we in the SDP are pleased that OHR respected a part of the remarks that were in the debate on the election law, i.e. the OSCE, and the OHR in a certain way, because the gentlemen who spoke here and who represented the working group were working under OHR's cap. I would like to say that their dating to some of the solutions proposed during the debate is something the SDP welcomes, in any case. However, I must also say that we, as pleased as we are with the move of the OSCE Election Law in a positive direction, are not so satisfied with how far we have come. In fact, this bill that we have before us, first of all, reflects the good will of the OSCE people, but I realized 24, we all realized, in the debate that we had, that the OSCE had made a small shift to, in a certain way, show us in which direction we should all go together and try to come together to some kind of political consensus and compromise around the Electoral Law. I want to start by clarifying that what we insisted on, in the SDP, does not in any way affect the very results of the election under this or any other modified electoral law. We all know that we have a proportional electoral system, from parties who want to succeed in the elections and demand to get a certain percentage of the vote, and this election law will not make any party larger or smaller. However, you know that our remarks moved in the domain of respect for part of the Constitution, Article 2, point 2, which speaks of “that rights and freedoms provided for in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and in its protocols apply directly to BiH and that these acts have priority over all other laws”, closed quote of point 2, Article 2. The BiH Constitution, which applies to the entire human rights corps and basic freedoms. In this direction, we have also seen the step taken by the OSCE, to leave the issue of the election of the BiH presidency member outside this law, while, to put it this way, I will not reach a proper expert and political one, but until a proper expert and political debate on the status of the BiH Constitution is concluded with the European Convention on Human Rights, because we here in this Parliament are less – we have more opposite opinions on this. We stand in the view that, without great panic, we should speak of it in the right way, given that the overall commitment of this Parliament is to go towards European standards and towards European integration. For us, this law, the draft law offered by the OSCE, a gesture of goodwill, and in that light we acted amendmentically in this way. Why were we acting amendmental? We acted as an amendment for one simple reason, which in preparation for this session, we practically did not know whether what appeared before us would have a design form or have a proposal form, or Bog asking you what, that's one thing. We felt that this amendment attempt to defil our relationship with the OSCE law was some kind of concreteization of our observations that were the principle levels so far. You all know that we have had a principle debate on the OSCE law, not entering concrete points, or members of the law, and that principle debate has led to a large number of objections being made by the OSCE, that we are only talking in principle, and we are not saying what we would like. That is exactly why we have defined our principled remarks in the amendment form, and I will ultimately suggest that we move on from this. The second reason why we suggested this, is because we considered it, I remind you, when we had these two laws before Parliament, the SDP Law was given to a supremacy majority, but it didn't have a qualified majority, unlike the OSCE law that failed completely. We felt that if one of these versions appeared to the BiH Parliament, it should come from a version of the SDP, given the fact that it received more votes in this house. However, considering that election law is not a matter of overvote, but of political consensus and awareness that we should have an electoral law that is more or less acceptable from the point of view of basic principles, we have said, okay, the OSCE law that is before you, we will act on it in amendment. I draw attention to what our amendments are, so that I don't speak in principle, I'll say what we wanted to achieve with these amendments. First of all, I have to draw attention to the basic principle in these amendments that we think we should know, which is that we, accepting that the amendment is acting on the proposal of the OSCE Election Law, are starting from not wanting to allow any solution in the electoral law that will be contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. So all those things that were detected in the debate, in order to have that character, we felt that it was necessary to remove from this law and apply directly constitutional solutions until the Constitution, eventually, was brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights or while the relevant institutions said that this was already harmonised and there was no need. Also, we felt, given that there is a debate in the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people, from the point of view of the party from which I come, the issue of constitutionality is not at all controversial for us. For us, all three peoples are constitutional in the whole territory of BiH, however, not wanting to pressure the BiH Constitutional Court on any basis, we have come from the assumption that this electoral law does not need to create an unnecessary climate that could politicise and lead to anxiety when making decisions about it. That is why we are standing on the stand, and here in the amendments that you have before you, above all, because of these two assumptions, and we have pointed especially to the amendment that we have sought to avoid by the Election Law to determine how to establish the House of Peoples which might be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. I want here from this pay phone to say very clearly, from the point of view of the SDP, the House of Peoples is something that is in no way questionable, on any basis. Also, I want to say clearly and responsibly that the House of Peoples with five Hrvat, five Bošnjak and five Srbin is something that is absolutely not questionable from the SDP's point of view and is not being questioned in any way. Also, from the point of view of the SDP, I would like to draw particular attention here, from this payphone, to the ingenuity and the manner in which the House of Nations has been defined, to us we are not at all controversial and cannot be questioned about any debate, whether there is a debate on the harmonisation of the Constitution or the European Convention on Human Rights. For us, the disputed way that is proposed here in the law, which we believe is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, which we believe can then be said in peace, that the choice of the House of People, or the delegation of Srbin to the House of Peoples, is exclusively from the RS, or Hrvat and Bošnjak to the House of Peoples exclusively from the Federation of BiH, we believe that this is the opposite of the European Convention and that it is discriminatory. That is why we are in the amendment here, to be very clear and precise, these are Amendments 7 and Amendment 8, I apologize, Amendment 8 and Amendment 9 are the two amendments that say that this part of the Election Law should be left behind, after the dilemma on the compliance of acts of BiH is resolved, fundamentally, from the Constitution and from the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. For us, this has the same treatment as the election issue of a BiH presidency member. We have also tried these amendments to have a debate, that you have very precise solutions to a few specific issues. I want to be specific, so we don't have to be principled, and I think at this stage, the draft can talk about it. One of our amendments concerns the wider composition of election commissions, which would allow independent candidates, or parties competing in the elections, to have their representation in the election commissions as resolved only here, which allows the manipulation of the ruling parties, today from one another tomorrow, since this is the Law that presupposes to withstand the trial of time, we 26 want election commissions and when we are in the majority, however, there are also minority parties in them. The second amendment concerns candidates who are elected president and vice president of the Federation of BiH. You also know our principled remarks that we have made here in the form of amendments that we believe the President and Vice-President of the Federation of BiH must be elected in the same way as the President and Vice-President of the Republic of Slovenia, or that they have responsibilities towards the voters, rather than in the way given in the current Electoral Law, to have responsibilities towards Parliament itself. Also, here we think that the censorship on the open lists should be, not five but ten percent, because that allows people who, I say, move on the party lists to be people who really have the support of their own base, in the broadest sense of that word, not the narrow circle of people. We have here an amendment concerning the choice of mayor and governor of Canton, we believe that in the same way that, and we welcome the OSCE's decision that the selection of chiefs can be resolved by entity laws so that the mayors can choose by direct vote, we believe that the governor of the canton, or mayors, can also be elected by direct vote, if the constitutions, the election laws of the entity say something about it. We also believe that direct choice should also apply to the city council where there are urban communities, not that city councils are elected indirectly, or that this matter can be regulated by entity laws and, in the end, when it comes to our amendments, we feel that manipulation of mandates should be disabled in the way in which it is said in the amendments, i.e. to prevent the manipulation of votes, through people who vote in a foreign name, and this amendment is listed very precisely here. Let me get this straight. I would ask that, when the SDP came forward, that the effort made by the OSCE, in a certain way, opened up the possibility of reaching some political agreement that would respect what has been in the widest debate so far. However, we believe that, if this draft is to be given here, if it wants to be translated into a basis for further work, we are ready to accept it as a basis for further work, provided, that these solutions that we have presented here in our amendments, intrinsics and all together, with this draft, represent, so to speak, the basis for further work, i.e. that this draft, what we have received from the OSCE, respects the amendments that we have made and that this is all the basis for further work together. The way OSCE's material was given here, for us it is not the basis for further work unless the remarks I have made are respected. Mr. Chairman, I also want to be very clear that all the amendments I have made here are not for us to assume that we should enter another phase, but those amendments concerning the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. What we have received from the OSCE as a proposal, if the amendments that we have listed here are accepted and the principle given in the preamble of our amendments, and I particularly draw attention to amendments 8 and 9, yes, then we are prepared to discuss further solutions, which are given in the Election Law. 27 Also, Mr President, in order to spare all of you together with the introductory notes, under (b) I would like to say that the electoral law we have given here, which has been delivered, that it reflects the debate that was given, which was held at the last session of Parliament, and we are particularly grateful to the MPs who have supported our law, because it strengthened us in the belief that we should make additional efforts and come up with the draft, or the proposal that you have before us. I draw attention only to the fact that we have respected all the comments made in the debate, however, since there have been several different remarks concerning the election of members of the BiH Presidency, I point out that when it comes to the selection of members of the BiH Presidency, we have left here several alternatives as an option, but I want to draw attention to everyone that, when it comes to the selection of members of the BiH Presidency, it can be based solely on respect for the European Convention on Human Rights, which means that all citizens, from all of its territory, regardless of what nationality they are, are from the point of view of their membership to the constituent peoples, have the right to be elected and that we all have the right and the possibility to choose every member of the BiH presidency, especially those who come from the people we belong to, and therefore the principle we have here which we have given to the BiH Presidency, all the alternatives that we give: 1. That every member of the BiH presidency who is elected tomorrow has the support of its own national group and has the appropriate support of all BiH citizens. We especially want to draw attention to those who have manipulated the public, that the SDP is trying to go with the Electoral Law that will favour one group, one people over the other, and that the possibility of electoral engineering will be opened that will prevent people from choosing their representatives. Our proposal implies that the elected members of the BiH presidency must have the support of both their own people and all citizens. Without any of these two support, we believe that it cannot properly represent its people and BiH. I would, Mr. Chairman, ask you to put this draft to a statement, this OSCE proposal that has been made, together with the amendments that I have made, as a package that we want, if the proposal is to put this as a basis, I, too, want, as a second proposal, that this is the basis, plus the amendments that we have given and that from that further goes into the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4549	Thank you very much. While MP Dokić exits, I ask the Service to multiply this report by the Constitutional Commission, in a similar situation, as it was about that disputed point when the interruption was made, to read and see who was wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4550	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this discussion, I would like to express my satisfaction over a statement we heard at the beginning, in the opening part of the debate on this matter. One regret over one request and a suggestion, which is justified, given the situation we are in. Indeed, from the heart and mind, so to speak, I welcome Mr. Beri's statement saying that the electoral law will not be imposed on anyone, but will be adopted and that it must be adopted by the BiH Parliament and 28 confirmed by the Council of the People of the BiH Assembly. I hope this applies not only to this law, but to turn a new leaf into our parliamentary, parliamentary and legislative practice. It may be a little harder at first, but be sure and convinced that it is the only way and the only way to achieve self-sustainable peace in BiH. The other thing I wanted to say, I said one of my disappointments, from one legitimate request, which came from the fact that the laws didn't pass here, someone said. I can accept that Chapter 8 will not be guaranteed, but that it says it will be guaranteed, once that chapter is defined, that it will be in accordance with the BiH Constitution. Whoever suggested this, he probably suggested out of fear that the BiH Assembly could go through things that were not in line with the BiH Constitution, and probably thought, not in an institutional and democratic way, as it is done in the Assembly that it is possible to go through, but rather a system of impose as it has been so far. If, from today, we focus on adopting laws exclusively in the Assembly, then I truly believe that there will never be a request from the Parliament that something not be in accordance with the Constitution, because I want to remind you of one elemental fact, that we here are all of the people chosen to protect the Constitution and to bring laws in accordance with the Constitution. This is why I really do not want to discuss those laws that obviously violate the Constitution and that is why I will list only one member of the law suggesting SDP, which is Article 102, which, according to their proposal, says " BiH presidency members, from the Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin ranks, are elected in the territory of the entire BiH", and the BiH Constitution says: "BiH members will directly elect each entity, so that each voter will vote for one place in the BiH presidency," this is the current Constitution. I'm begging you, this has got to work now. If sometimes the Constitution is different, then we can talk about other elements related to this law. In last week's debate that we had here in preparation for this meeting, where they were to be representatives of all political, parliamentary club presidents and representatives of all political parties that do not have parliamentary clubs, it has long been discussed whether the OHR proposal respects human rights and freedoms. I think it's completely absorbed, that they're embedded and respected, and we've had a claim both by the representatives of the OSCE and the Office of the High Representative that these provisions have been incorporated. I call on you and draw attention to the fact that the Constitution of BiH is written on the basis of the elements highlighted in the preamble of this Constitution and that there are nine elements and one of these elements are human rights and freedoms, one of which is governed by the objectives and principles of the UN Charter, under which the rights of groups and peoples are guaranteed, further, inspired by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration on the Rights of National or Ethnic, Religious and Language Groups, also, and that is the basis for the adoption of this Constitution, which we have to abide by and I would only list one of the elements of that preamble in which it is said, referring to the basic principles agreed on 8 September 1995 in Geneva and 26 September 1995 in New York. I have listed only four, it is nine elements in the BiH Constitution preamble, on which the document we have sworn here rests. That's why we don't have the right to break it, while it's worth it, of course. The newly created situation after the rejection, in one of the previous parliaments, both draft laws, I personally, and in the Party of Democratic Progress of the RS, too, because we had this in our debate, even on the main committee was assessed as one new chapter in co-ordination between the BiH Assembly and the 29-nation international community present here, an attempt to reach a compromise, which would be acceptable to the majority in the BiH Assembly. From that point of view, we are approaching this new draft and for this reason we have accepted that it enters the procedure again. Right now, to be perfectly clear, that doesn't mean, even though I voted in favour of that draft here last time, that we support all the elements in the draft. We said that this is an acceptable basis for a proposal to come to the amendment, which we will later discuss and try to redefine some things, at least those things that are unclearly defined and leave the possibility of different interpretations in the election. I have to admit, in our party, he didn't come across the approval of the way a compromise was sought. Under the BiH Constitution, this law in particular should define the choice of members of the BiH presidency and the election of MPs in this home in which we are discussing today. By abandoning Chapter 8. 50% of that law has been practically left out. The reasons that are mentioned there, which is why it is left out, are not very convincing. Then it could be said the same way, since local elections are now not being held under this law, and it will be held again for four years, so in 2004, then it could be said, here, the next element of the compromise is that we postpone this part of the law for 2004, but if this creates conditions that, through further procedure, the adoption of this law can be reached by law acceptable to the majority in this assembly, then we will also support such an initiative. In the end, I would just say that it is not appropriate to offer any amendments to the draft law, because I believe that all parties, or MP clubs, have amendments to this law and to that first variant, and thus to this one, because in the most part it is the same, I really do not accept the variant that anyone now offers amendments along with the Draft. Amendments will be spoken of when one of the drafts becomes a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4551	Dear Presidency and Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would say that I find in the BiH Constitution a fundamental basis for compromise on this law, I find it. Here's where I find him. Now I'm going to read the exact text that's always been read in pieces and I don't know why. Article 2, human rights and fundamental freedoms, 1st human rights, 2nd international standards say: "rights and freedoms cross... to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and its protocols", and in its protocols I underline, "are directly applied in BiH". So, directly. And the final sentence of that part is "these acts, charters and protocols, have priority over all other laws". The laws we passed, the laws that have been declared by the High Representative or the laws that we will adopt. It is the only and fundamental basis for a compromise, if we are to reach the Electoral Law, because based on this stance from the Constitution, in fact, BiH is decrypting the possibility for the future and on all the fundamental issues I have asked. My replica is not to get up and read, I don't know which time, the same attitude. It refers to the opinion of a respected counterpart, Dokić, who expressed one attitude that has burned my ears. One is that by moving this chapter 8, which refers to the election of members of the BiH presidency, in relation to the Electoral Law, in fact, this proposal, 30 draft laws are reduced to quality and quantity, as you will, to 50% of the Electoral Law, which is what I have warned. This ratio of the percentage, just before mathematically, now percentage, shows that we are inundated with the awareness that three members of the BiH Presidency, this is a concrete statement, making 50% of all rights, political and obligations and responsibilities, and Mr. Beri has launched three things. He said responsibility, in general, in the Electoral Law, transparency and, of course, he mentioned a third word, and that is moderation, and there is no moderation if 50% of the authorities and powers are concentrated in the BiH Presidency and if this Electoral Law should express 50% of the power in relation to the overall position of the BiH Parliament and other bodies, then it is something that does not mean that our democratisation of civil society is the goal of taking into account. It's a replica, and I'm not looking for a new replica of replica, I just want to say that I'm not prone to the delicate things of civil society to use in this way in mathematics and percentages, but if we're already using them, then they throw out at first what statistics can cheat, but what politics can impose as a general way of thinking in this country. Then there is no parliament, then there is no executive authority, there is no judicial authority, if 50% of these authorities are held by the BiH presidency. It is not a spirit nor a BiH Constitution based on this fundamental member and in international standards such a thing is not possible to speak at all. It's about the replica and I'm finishing the replicas. As for the intervention on the question I asked the SDP Club. I am, of course, here with Mr. Dokić, in a way, in agreement, because I understand that Mr. Lagumdžija has already explained that it is a matter of concreteising the proposal that should be the basis of a new text of the draft, if accepted. How are you gonna get out of this? Since we have only this draft law and only these proposals, of course corrected, of course, it's not about the draft law, it's not about the bill, it's about a number of questions that one club of MPs insists on. What do we insist on? What do I insist on? I insist that, if we agree that we have three proposals, two that are on the agenda and three that are waiting for us at the table at any of the next sessions, and if we are inclined to compromise, to concentrate our attention, can the promoters who are not here today in any form, nor Mr Drago Ljubičić, nor the representatives of the OSCE formally, or have them or cannot identify them precisely, because they are behind this proposal, can we run one normal, quite clear position, that all of what we heard in the debate so far, in a months-long debate, in a public debate, that we start one principle thing, and that is that we have proposals and attitudes that build the ground to begin, in one normal procedure, a discussion on Election Law? We do. If we already have and if we accept it, then we must recognize that we have heard 4-5 MPs today who have given very concrete interventions at the expense of this bill. To put this in the process, there's a business principle, or to approach that principle, to build a relationship against it, or to give it up. Today, if we can ask, since we are in progress, we can continue tomorrow to ensure the presence of Drago Ljubičić and the OSCE representative, to ensure that this draft law is put into practice and, of course, to hear their statement. If it's already a draft, we have to get their position by the Rules of Procedure. We have Mr. Špirić, Mrs. Rađević, Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Dokić and several other proposals, and I think it would be appropriate to maintain our interest in compromise. In order to have that interest fully, we need a promoter to continue this debate. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4552	He goes over this and the replica and the access speech, who is now who he's replicating to.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4553	Although I don't like replicas, my colleague Ibro really provoked me to replication. I would like to say that I, indeed, Mr. Ibro, MP Ibro, am not creating conditions for him for a new replica. I really didn't talk about responsibility at all. I'd like to say, I finished high school in Zenica. Professor of Serbian Croatian, then, whom you now call Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak,
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4554	It's changed, now it's Bosnian.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4555	When I had a written assignment from the Serbian Croatian language, if someone was wrong about the subject, whether out of ignorance or because he wanted to show up in another topic, he always got a unit.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4556	First, let me say one thing, since Mr Dokić has called on the Constitution, I only remind the magnetogram that I have read international standards, a member of the 2nd Human Rights and Freedoms of the BiH Constitution. That these acts are a priority over all other laws, adopted and future adopted laws, until we adopt our constitution by the will of the citizens of BiH, without the presence of the international community, it is under one, and for that will come the time, one fine day. Secondly, I am absolutely in favor of you respecting the Constitution. The Constitution contains the names of the language. That would be correct if you read the Constitution. I think you've agreed and there's no reason to replicate. Thirdly, as far as the unit is concerned, I'm the one who's been getting fives and tens all his life, and I wanted a literature unit one day, and it was that "Silence of the Sea"... one book and I said it like this. I'm going to write a text about the shell, and if it's understood well, I don't know if you know what period of literature it's from, I said, if I write a good text about the shell, I guess it's going to be tied to the sea in an associative sense, so if they tie it to the sea, then they're going to tie it to the canoe that was in one room, where there was a meeting of those who, as enemies, started to understand each other with the help of music.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4557	It means we play. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4558	It seems there will be a conclusion from the Representative Council that sometimes it is not good enough to read. I'm saying that the further debate, unfortunately, shows that we're going back to the beginning. I have carefully participated in all debates and attempts to approach positions, unfortunately, not between parties but between us and OHR. The OHR, I suppose, and the OSCE, followed closely our attempts at approaching and came out with the bill. I'm begging you, I've never seen an amendment to the draft. Today, the question arises whether we will put this draft into a further procedure, so that we can approach its amendment through amendments, or whether we will continue to outsmart what BiH is, in which way the citizens will be protected and escape from the adoption of vital legal projects, i.e. through these projects, design their own picture of BiH. It would be good if the international community gave us homework to write about how I see BiH. I have the impression that 42 MPs would come with 42 different images of BiH. That's why, gentlemen, and it's written by the Constitution to get us all into a common legal framework. I beg you, don't spread it like this. You can think of what Mr Spahić suggested, if I heard it correctly, let's go to Draga Ljubičić, so let's go to HDZ, so let's go to the CD Coalition, let's try everything we can to get them together so they can come out with some new compromise. We're looking for a compromise, here, two months. I said, here, last time we said that the draft could serve as a solid basis, that we were going to a solid debate, through the amendments. Gentlemen, you must make it clear today. I think Mr Lagumdžija was more honest when he said “if you do not accept this, this is not a solid basis for us”, so there is no demand for compromise, what Mr. Beri was saying “dam – dash”. I am, and I am standing in my position again, as far as I'm concerned, this debate can be brought to an end in terms of being said, because there are no proposings, and probably people have run away knowing what we are, because I don't see a proposing who can answer all this we're looking for, especially if we know what Mr. Ljubičić's position is, and we know how this Electoral Law came about. I would ask that this discussion be brought to an end, that we do not open the dilemmas that we opened at the beginning, and that we simply see who is in order for this to be a solid foundation or who is for us to continue to wander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4559	Mr. Ibro, taught by your example, here, and I brought the Constitution to read and read in Bosnian. If you ask me, it's one of the Bosnian languages, because there are three, but, well, in Bosnian. The fifth element on which the Constitution of BiH was adopted reads as follows: "led by the goals and principles of the UN Charter". Those who have read the UN Charter know, among other things, that it writes in the Charter, and in order to enable the realisation of human rights, that a nation has the right even to self-determination. The practice in the world has shown that sometimes the people can decide that they will not live with other nations for some of their reasons. Therefore, to discuss human rights in such a way, as you discuss, is really unacceptable. First of all, life is such that many things conflict, exclude each other and, if we are exclusive like you, that human rights is just what you represent, then, indeed, we will never come to any compromise where, as much as everyone's right will be respected. Maybe it would be better if we stayed at this level of human rights, and I said that the last time I said that, we could start a process that could be very different, much harder and worse. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4560	What is this?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4561	Mrs. Rađević has raised one big question. Since you can't at all, there are no disputes, that one part of the preamble is the objectives of the UN Charter and without this Constitution, if you want me to now, in accordance with my memory, dictate all parts and members of the UN Charter, I can, but there's no point in doing that, because I would show that there is simply some basis for talking. We're talking about the draft election law today. I first raised the question and asked the gentlemen of the SDP Parliament Club to make themselves clear against their amendments to the proposal or draft of the law and what their position is. It is very important for us that we can open this process, that we start working on a compromise. We heard the SDP's attitude. We heard different other views of the MPs and I did not question them, nor did the SDP MP, because, of course, I have made several remarks, in principle. What brings me here, of course, for a pay phone multiple times, for this law, is only one interest to serve what is called the democratisation of civil society. It is normal to mean responsibility, equality of all citizens and of all peoples, it is quite clear, in all rights. Please, since the spirit of the European Convention is such and since the Charter of Human Rights is such that the best part of this law, in the first version we have received, was a commentary. I'm asking you, now I have a practical proposal. Let the procedure, that commission and the group that worked, along with this draft law, be delivered and an explanation of this draft law and the Law of Election, because it is a very good text. It certainly is a necessary explanation because many things and dilemmas would clarify. My commitment to compromise is entirely because I think it is the only way to establish equal game rules for the whole of BiH, the political rules of the game, in which we are only one part of these rules. That is why I would like to draw attention to, you have no reason to get excited about the UN Charter, simply because both the Charter and the Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights and Protocols, are in fact the basis of individual and collective rights, and that is indisputable and that, if you will, is the best way to overcome the uninterrupted replicas, to ask the gentleman who worked on that commission, what is the basis, that is, a comment on why they opted for such walking between different members, and to preserve the spirit of the Constitution of BiH and why we are in progress. Please, let us turn to what is fact. To vote on the Draft today, to let him go into the procedure, I want to know from the Kolegijum, whether or not it's no way to remove the debate about whether it's necessary to hear the proposal's opinion. If it is not necessary to hear the proposal's opinion, I am absolutely ready to open that procedure and start creating conditions for this to be the basis and to create elements for work. I don't have any dilemmas in this regard. Please, as far as I'm concerned, the replica of the continuous, I really don't have any exclusivity in relation to any human right or collective. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4562	MP, he's gone for five minutes. Slowly, he's blaming the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4563	I'll take it easy, there's no need for a replica. I want, of course, to say that these discussions, which are being conducted and those on the right path, return to the way. A unique political basis for BiH's election can only be at the level that is unique to BiH, Mr Ibro, it says in the Constitution. BiH in both entities is not even territorially arranged to regulate the right to choose how you advocate. The single arrangement of the political platform for the election is only at the level prescribed by the BiH Constitution, these are the joint bodies of BiH. It says there the rest will regulate the entity's electoral law. Your commitment to go into one sherpa, so as it ends up in it, you know, a housewife when she cooks milk, so when she sees that the fire fills the temperature, she adds a little water so she doesn't run out of milk, and you'll have everything out of BiH, you'll only have BiH as a frame, no people, if you behave like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4564	At each session we have these small replicas, excursions, and that is good because of the overall atmosphere in this House of BiH. After all, this is one school, no matter how often someone gets a unit. I think that the OSCE Working Group, or Proposer, Mr Drago Ljubičić, has taken a step forward, giving up Chapter 8, which regulates the election of members of the BiH Presidency and has opened up, has given time to possibly resolve this in another atmosphere, in a way that will be generally acceptable. However, the promoter did not follow a controversial stance regarding the election of the BiH presidency, when it comes to the House of Peoples and I must say that I fully agree with Mr Lagumdžija about the link between the election for the BiH presidency members and the election for members of the House of Peoples of the BiH, and I believe that, from my point of view, this is an important restriction for the further process of adoption of this law. I would warn the Proposer of several other elements and the remarks I warned about, which, apparently, since the Proposer has done quite a bit of work, does not consider it serious that he may be able to change them in the coming period. I would also express my disappointment with the position of the promoters and the eviction, i.e. by amending the provision on a proportionate system of establishing local executive authorities, which was in the previous version, because this was not mentioned in any discussion as a serious problem. In a letter sent to the BiH Parliament, the Proposer said, even incorrectly, that all parties agreed to change that. I warned the OSCE that this was not true and would have to find a more intelligent explanation why this concept was changed compared to the draft law. As an MP, I'd like to give it up again and propose a few solutions. 1. I believe that the OSCE Working Group, or the Proposer, did not best resolve a member of the 1.5th use of voting law, because I believe that this provision on the possibility of voting, if a person is located six months in the place of residence, will create a major limit for possible adoption of the law. I am also disappointed that the OSCE task force, although it has promised to offer some way out of this situation, could not find a compromise, has so far not offered a solution that will bring harmony between Annex 7. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH and the right of all to return to their homes and to exercise electoral rights under this law. 2. I think, too, I'll only talk about a few elements that matter to me. In the elections for the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, although the OSCE has its reasons to offer solutions to breaking entity territories into multi-member electoral units, I believe there are no excessive reasons for that. In fact, elections for the local assembly, municipalities, are local elections that solve local problems. Canton elections are cantonal elections, they solve cantonal problems. Entity elections are entity problems and they solve entity problems. Breaking the Federation of BiH, as well as the RS, in which the electoral units are on the so-called Multi-member electoral units, when voting to elect MPs in the state parliament, which has, the state parliament has the Constitution of a certain jurisdiction, may be a good attempt and the need to break up some centralised political parties, but it may mean a dangerous policy localisation in the state parliament of BiH. As far as I'm concerned, and the Liberal Party, it's unacceptable, and I think the OSCE should try to take into account a different argument than those of its already buried arguments that we have had the opportunity to see in the last few months. Strongly recalculating and dividing into electoral units, with the possibility that all MPs from the Federation of BiH can simply lead to results that the OSCE does not see at this time. In the first Proposal for a Law on the BiH Presidency, the OSCE Working Group offered a preferential voting system for the BiH presidency, with the right to resist those, when I say rightly, rightly from their point of view, resisting those who feel it is not necessary to do so, forcing the principle of choice of those who have the least opponents, conditioned opponents in BiH's political life. If the political intensity of the task force and Mr Drago Ljubičić was to have a preferential voting system for the BiH presidency, thus selecting three members of the BiH presidency who are, on condition, the most targeted among the candidates, with the least so-called. The enemy, as the OSCE puts it, why then the OSCE did not, as a consequence, apply the preferential voting system to parliaments at all levels in BiH, especially because there are countries such as Australia and others in which the principle exists. On one side of the BiH presidency, we cannot have a policy of softening the political scene without it consistently following parliaments at all levels in BiH. A few minor remarks. I do not think that the OSCE should charge any financial tax for registration for the elections, because there are already strong preconditions for the parties to the elections, of which, for example, are key, the collection of signatures. Please, OSCE, look out, we've all given 1,000 marks to go to local elections, say, that's 80 parties, that's 80,000 marks, give me 80,000 marks for six months, so I can give them back to you after the election's over. Why a fee must be paid for the election of political parties with a variant that those who do not win the mandates will not be paid back. This is an important restriction on democracy and free political organisation and political competition in BiH's life, completely unnecessary, with the aim of eliminating fewer parties, but the number of signatures is sufficient to participate in 36 elections and there is no need for financial transactions regarding registration for elections. I believe that the OSCE must find the strength to eliminate and determine the existing process of infinite complications over the active right, i.e. the active registration of voters, eliminates and determines so-called. passive voter registration in BiH. Only those who change addresses and change, want to vote otherwise, only those who submit an active request. Getting the right to vote in this country is very complicated. Please, gentlemen of the task force, Mr. Absent Drago Ljubičić, make it easy for you to simplify the principle of obtaining voting rights in BiH. Don't make an endless bureaucratic procedure and make it impossible for a large number of people to go to elections. I am very prone to the view that the relationship between the BiH presidency and the People's House would have to be a relationship that could significantly determine the fate of this law, which is the first rank of priority. The second ranking of priorities is a member of the 1.5th Law, and I expect the OSCE to offer a better way out than the use of the voting rights we have in this law and the third order of priorities are these remarks which I hope are moderate, rational and can be, or can be used in such a way that in the bill some of what I have said experience its implementation. In any case, the Liberal Party, I, as an MP, remain very interested in the adoption of this law and we are ready to go to compromise according to the priorities I have just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4565	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, it's quite difficult to say, after all these honourors, respectors of the Constitution, composers of the constitution, but in order to be quite clear, I would like to highlight a few things on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Club of Representatives. We stand at the point that this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should do everything possible to adopt the Election Law, express high concern for the attempts of some political structures that, by avoiding the adoption of the Election Law, they create the preconditions to postpone the general elections and prevent changes in this country without which, indeed, neither on the economic nor on the political plan nor on the European integration plan of BiH can be counted more seriously, in due course. That is why we, gentlemen, have offered the draft election and therefore we have offered concrete solutions, our amendments to this draft, wanting to make our maximum contribution and not wanting to leave any room for any calculations and that this dialogue and seeking compromise, which is more concrete, is happening without excess rhetorical and other traps. Our amendments to the Draft which has been submitted here, amendments to the text of the law, have been addressed to the Proposer on the basis of the motions to these amendments, will depend on our position on whether we can vote at all to form the basis for this draft proposal. If the Proposer, in his statement, does not make it clear that he accepts amendments that are on the line of such text, that there is no breach of the European Convention on Human Rights, we will not vote for the draft of this electoral law in the form that he can become a proposal. We are in favour of compromise, but this compromise, indeed, stops at the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, although it is necessary to underline, there is no compromise for us, for what we have here, very urgently while we have been having a debate, is being delivered on the accession to European integration, in which now 37 is already required for BiH to assume the obligation to sign, ratify and implement documents WE, where, gentlemen, there is no room for human rights violations, so if it will, there is no room for a violation of national rights in such a way that someone, under the auspices of taking care of his own people, declares Srbin of greater importance and Srbin of minor importance. Is there any right to make it impossible for Hrvat in Bosnia's Posavina to choose and be elected to the highest state institutions? Haven't we replaced the thesis on what it is to fight for national rights and what national equality is in BiH. Who has the right to vote in Grahovo, in Drvar, to prevent Srbin from voting and having a lot of active and passive voting rights and who in all of any man in BiH has the right to make it impossible? There is no argument that will convince us that it is supposed to be in the interest of one of the three constituent Bosnian Herzegovina people. I would like to stress very clearly that when we observe the abandonment of these provisions for the election of members of the BiH presidency, we are primarily referring to the respect of the BiH Constitution, Article 2, item 2. And we, in reason, believe that it would be good, or in the text of the draft of this law, to underline that all the solutions that are not provided for by this law will be in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. It is a commitment that, ultimately, the laws that BiH adopts during this period must have an integral part of that commitment, otherwise it will be an obstacle for us to include and expand the integration process. It's very clear here on several occasions, but I would point out. We affirm and want to ensure that in BiH, through elections, full national equality is provided, but that each elected representative of his own people has the legitimacy and representation of members of other peoples, or that he can work in central institutions to overcome the blockades that we currently have, which are primarily based on non-respecting functions for the whole of BiH and for the interests of all citizens in BiH, people who participate in performing responsible functions in BiH's central institutions. For the end, the chairman, on behalf of the MPs' club, I would ask that the statement on this law, because of the importance it has for the future of BiH, be individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4566	Dear gentlemen, it's 17 o'clock and 10 minutes. At 5:15 p.m., there's a meeting of our Commission on International and Foreign Affairs that will last until 6:00 p.m. The college is of the opinion that we need to interrupt the session now and resume tomorrow at 10 o'clock. We need to make a deal about the next one. Our conclusion on the continuation of work is that. We can't do the opposite of what we agreed, unless you decide otherwise. We've got five minutes left. We can't finish it. We can only continue at 6:00. Continue at 18. He has a decision to work until 18, and that's the problem. If we make a deal, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4567	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have had this law before us since the 10th month. We held a series of discussions in this House, the first session was in principle, and then we had the Law where we discussed the Draft, made direct remarks, held a series of public debates, round tables, and practically made everything clear. Unfortunately, today we have been listening to the same story from the beginning where we are not 38 ready for any compromise on this law, and that clearly needs to be said here and that so much insists on certain options that will never lead to a certain solution. If it is said here today, retail blackmailers, that the legislator should say to accept the amendments, so we will vote for the Draft, it has never been with a draft to be accepted, but simply with the draft, it was the conclusion that everything in the public debate or any objections would be discussed and on the basis of that, made a proposal that corresponds to BiH's organisation, the Constitution of BiH, and to all other elements of the entity's constitutional jurisdiction and that I do not list any further. So we can discuss this as much as we want, and from this it's clear, and I suggest that we simply conclude this debate, and that we make it clear that this draft can go further in the process and that we do so. Now here to cross the spear and explain what human rights are, how BiH is organized, and all the other reasons why it has to provide the consensus of the entity, the parity of the entity, etc., it's really one sense, because I didn't intend to answer the word, but this when I listened, it really doesn't make any sense anymore. So, let's be clear, let's be clear, are we for this draft to go into further procedure, or are we not, and with that we will say everything, and normally to take into account what is possible in this consolidation of relations, constitutional and legal legislation of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4568	Please, how many people must leave now? sačekati, Ibro, yes, how many people have to leave now? - Seven. How long will she stay in Sally, let me see, when she leaves seven? I suggest we keep working, make three delegates go away. You don't all have to be at this meeting, you can do a little bit here. What am I going to put to the vote? There's been reports of debaters, I can't take people's word for it. Here, delegation, let's keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4569	Dear MPs, I seem to always come in line when there's a problem like this. Last time they told me I talked a lot. Today, really, I won't talk much and I won't bother you very much. I'm just going to do some important things again, and in the shortest lines, I'm going to look back on this draft of the electoral law that made up the OSCE. Realising that we need to come to a compromise, aware that we need to pass this law, aware of its importance, I think we need to think rationally and rationally about solving this problem, because it is a really big problem. However, on the last draft, which has now changed somewhat, I have made a series of remarks in front of the HDZ, in front of the Representatives' Club, and I must say that most of the remarks have not been adopted in this draft, which is now re-presented by the OSCE, I regret to conclude that because the HDZ observations have indeed been established. I must repeat here that we believe that in this Electoral Law there must be provisions relating to the level of the BiH state, I am involved directly in the debate on Chapter 8. That chapter should not be dropped, it should also contain this draft. In drawing up that first draft, we made up a series, in fact, we made remarks on each member, but we didn't put it in the process, and we gave our remarks, and at the same time we made a new draft of the electoral law in front of our 39 party. We didn't put the new draft in the process, expecting our legitimate objections to be respected. Since these remarks have not been adopted, we have put in the procedure a new Electoral Law. I would now ask here a question that, in a certain way, I said in the last session, and it refers to this particular draft. I know that this draft didn't go through that procedure that Parliament requires, that it would be involved, but I also know, and that we have today on the Constitutional Affairs Commission, that not even these two drafts that are here today on the agenda have passed that procedure of 30 days and so on. We, remember, turned down that draft that was made before and before the OSCE, in front of Mr. Ljubičić, and also in front of the SDP. If it was to be included in the agenda, these two should be included, it should also be included in front of the BiH HDZ. It was not done, and I, indeed, did not respond to the commission either, we observed it, and here at this session, for exactly the reason, appreciating the need for the adoption of this law, the importance of this law, and what was done in the international community to achieve adequate, good text, which will correspond to all the peoples as much, of course, as it can be, estimating that a compromise is needed. I would just say this, on this now new draft of the OSCE election law, without Chapter 8 and without certain other adjustments that have been made before, HDZ would not be able to give consent to go further into the procedure, but we would not condition, as Mr Lagumdžija has conditioned, that he would agree, only, if everything in the text, in the way he is, their objections to the design of the OSCE. I'm asking, I expect all of us to compromise, but I expect you to also consider that draft that HDZ gave. I assure you it's very good. I assure you that it contains everything that is provided for in the Constitution to be in the Election Law, I assure you that it contains a good part of the provisions that stand and in the Law which the OSCE has made and, after all, which are provisions which should otherwise stand in this law and I would ultimately like to make a proposal that you can think about, it does not have to be decided, but it is for one thought. In fact, since we have three drafts of the electoral law, given that we have different opinions, we have been on several meetings and we know that there are many different thinkings, not to say, on a large part of the provisions of the law, but in one part of which we can hardly agree, I would suggest that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, from its ranks, choose professional people, of course, to be under the auspices of the Commission for Constitutional Affairs, and that this group be strengthened with experts who will be in front of those already involved, the OHR, or from some other, mainly, experts, and that this group will look at all three drafts and come up with one draft that would fit, initially, counting on these amendments that would correspond to all of us, so that we could release it into the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4570	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will give up my discussion at the expense of intervention. A kolega, Dokić, has the custom of being refreshed by some local anecdote, mostly from the political sphere, and I will remind you of an anecdote related to Čerčil, I almost told it to one of my colleagues here in Parliament. Churchill was asked what was the difference between statesmen and politicians. He said the statesman is taking care of the state and the politician is taking care of the next elections. Of course, I told this anecdote because it is very often suitable for characterising here our work, and today, as an illustration of the invitation for MPs to prefer too much of this second, and if we already have 40 moves in our discussions of laws and international charters and acts to at least consider, among other things, the difference between human and political rights. We're taking out the intervention, really without any desire to, with any kind of controversy or debate, simply as a wish to take a little less care of future elections, and more of what is, however, more primary, I would say, a commitment in this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4571	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I will only make my point on the basis of the definition of two concepts in the Law on Elections, whose proposing Mr Ljubičić is the draft law. In fact, Article 3.3 defines the concept of residence and residence. According to this definition of residence, it is clearly said that the person who has a place of residence has expressed a desire to return, and in the following Articles 3 and 4 and in the previous Article 1.5. it is possible that these same people, i.e. persons, can vote if they have a place of residence in a given area and for a municipality from which they are not, or for that municipality where they do not want to live. The residence doesn't regulate his further existence in the area. I would therefore ask the promoter to change Articles 3 and 4 by respecting this remark, in particular Article 1 and Article 3 which clearly enables electoral engineering in municipalities that a particular policy option in this area wants to do so. Namely, I'll give you an example. In the municipality of Srebrenica, in the 1997 elections, registered voters were 11,500, and there were no more than 11,000 residents in the municipality, both domestic and those who came as refugees. I would ask that in Article 3.3, the concept of residence is defined in more detail, especially in the last part where it should be specified which law treats it. Namely, can the residence be registered in a municipality in another person's house or must a person have his own house or his own apartment, or can he regulate it with a lease agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4572	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, fellow ambassadors, I would like to know, before I say a few words, whether or not the motionary will be made aware of our views. Whether or not the promoter, I understand that Mr Drago Ljubičić will not, in the form of a discussion in the form of an amendment, be able to see that in all possible forms we have presented our proposal, in all possible forms, theoretically, practically, in all possible forms, we have made our proposals. Whether or not the Proposer will make a statement about them, whether, since Mr. Beri was here, the man was gone, there are still others here from the OSCE. I'm interested in procedure. You noticed that we gave the amendments, not knowing what would wait for us, a draft or a proposal, so we prepared ourselves for anything possible. Now, I ask you, will the motionor come forward? If he wanted to, I'd wait for the motionor to come forward, i.e. The OSCE's competent group, or I don't know who, the OHR, with the authority or without the authority of Mr. Ljubičić, so when he declares, then we will state our position. We're ready to hear the explanation, so let's react, and if it won't come out, we have a proposal again. I want to draw attention to that because, sir, I won't mention it, since more people have mentioned our ultimatums, our esteemed fellow MPs, MPs, we don't give any ultimatums. We are just drawing attention to what our position is and that we are trying to come up with some compromise that can't be compromised in any way, which is based on our acceptance to trample on the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. Let us, esteemed fellow MPs and 41 MPs, we do not ask for it to be trampled or trampled, we are merely saying that during this debate, there is a reasonable doubt in expert circles, that I am not talking about political, that some of the things we have talked about are possible to violate the European Convention on Human Rights. We're going to say, come on, people, that what's possible is that, here, let's put that aside, not opening a debate at all. It's our proposal, let's put it aside. If the promoter says so, he's making his point, I'll answer it afterwards. If the promoter won't make an announcement in our position, I would, too, allow me, then present our proposal, and my colleague, Banjac, to tell you that we took this seriously. For those who do not know, the Commission for International Relations has been invited to meet with Mr Bod Homb, a man who is the Stability Pact coordinator. I'm sitting on that committee like some other people here. Three of our members, MPs, MPs, went there to talk to Mr. Hombah. What is more important to me is what we are talking about now than meeting with Mr. Hombah, as members of the Commission for International Relations. For me, it is even more important, and this is not the agenda, the BiH Parliament's session since the meeting with Mr. Hombah. Give us some self-respect to introduce. It is more important for me that we continue tomorrow than that of our parliamentary group visiting the Parliament of Slovenia, which we have full respect for. Gentlemen from Slovenia would understand us, because if they were in our position, they wouldn't delay the session of their parliament. They wouldn't delay it, people, but if we don't have a Parliament session tomorrow, because we have a visit to the Slovenian Parliament, then it's self-indulgent for us. I don't even know what to do, if we're going to tell our colleagues in Slovenia, you know, we delayed Parliament's session to come to a meeting with you, so we're going to let people know that we have respect for them, and we don't have respect for ourselves and for what the agenda is here. I'm asking you to make a motional statement, so that we can move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4573	Since all the discussions have been exhausted, there are no requests for discussion, I don't know if there's a face in front of the promoter to answer any questions, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4574	I'll be very brief, I'll try to be brief. I will respond to the suggestions made by Mr. Lagumdžija's representative. We've been through a very long process. We had one draft that was considered before parliament, and the draft experienced a large number of objections. We responded to these objections, and we made up a new draft. We've really tried to create an atmosphere of compromise. We invited all parties in Parliament to discuss together and try to find this common land for the creation of the Electoral Law. At this stage, we said it very, very clearly that we don't want to be that one of your opponents you're trying to persuade. Also, each of you individually might be able to convince us of some of the suggestions you're making. That doesn't make a majority in this House. Because of this, we were very, very clear, and he was very clear and Mr. Ambassador Beri earlier today. We want you to have a clear, particularly impact on you to adopt this law as a basis for further amendments. At this stage, we cannot at present begin to change 42 the draft that is currently in front of you. If we do it one way, someone else will try to do it again in another direction. This is the procedure to go through, after there is a basis for further amendments. So to create one sustainable majority. I can make it absolutely clear to you in one. We will not be that side that will make it difficult to find a compromise alone. I therefore want to encourage you in particular to take this next step in achieving this process of amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4575	I'm just asking you to keep it slow. We heard the answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4576	Mr. Banjac, I highly appreciate your expeditivity, or your attempts to be as expedient as possible, in order not to engage in procedural traps, I thank Mr. Deputy Chief of Mission of Ambassador Beri, Mr. Volen, who gave us the answer that he preferred. In fact, the proposer must be manifested on the proposals that were made. For me, this answer is procedurally acceptable. Naturally, he is not acceptable to me in substance, but, before I say something in content, I am obliged procedurally to fulfill the possibility that the motionary would tell us his position, or, on behalf of Mr. Drago Ljubičić, Deputy Mr. Beri, Mr. v. kad Mr. Volan said, he called me by name and last name, he said that he would answer me, a fellow representative told me, but now you're finished, I guess he was joking. In fact, now it's perfectly clear, after what we're in, what phase we're in. I must admit that the SDP's position is unchanged and I repeat it for who knows which time. If we have to give up the principle, we're ready and we're done, but we're not giving up on the principle. The principle is ours, we do not agree to trampling in this Parliament of the European Convention on Human Rights, even if there is any indication that it is. It's very simple. Therefore, Mr. Banjac, in order not to be unclear about possible ultimatums and characterized in any way because of our attitude, I ask you to have, before us is the draft which the OSCE has given and all MPs will declare by name and last name whether they are for it. Are they to accept this bill as a basis for further work. In parallel with this, we are asking for the BiH Parliament to plead on the next conclusion that reads. The draft of MP Drago Ljubičić, with the adoption of the solutions set out in Amendments 8 and 9, relating to the equality of citizens in the election in the House of Peoples, are the basis for the draft laws, which will respect the attitudes of today's debate. In which attitudes will be respected, other attitudes will be expressed in today’s debate, which implies the attitudes we have given, amendments, and everyone else who has given it, etc. There's one here, so to speak, a step that we don't accept, whether we're done or not, we'll see who's done at the end. The election will show who will be finished. This is, we do not accept that this draft goes further into the debate as a good basis, and that we already know that there is one solution in it that is discriminated against by Srbin from the Federation of BiH and people who are not Srbin by nationality, from the RS, during elections in the House of Peoples. You esteemed colleagues know that it will not affect the final content at all, the final structure of the personal home of the people, but it is the principle. No party 43 will receive any votes or fewer on account of this member. No party will have any less or more representatives in parliaments, assemblies and the House of Peoples, but it is a principle. Moreover, Mr Banjac, the Secretariat has now given us a letter, received today from the Foreign Ministry, sent to us as MPs and to the BiH Parliament, saying that BiH, in order to be admitted to the V.E., has to formally assume obligations as follows, and numbered, and we have now received one of the obligations to sign the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with the associated protocols, continues to say that it ratifys this charter with the corresponding protocols one year after its entry. We already have that, thank Bog, as part of our constitution, but, well, we're going to have to ratify that one more time. Now that we've got that on the table, here, while we've talked about it, as if someone from above wanted to remind us so he threw this to us, so he says, people, keep in mind once more what you have to worry about, about the European Convention on Human Rights, agree whatever you want. In this House, I hope and want to remain in writing, if anyone has accepted, who has accepted in Parliament, and who has not accepted, here, I call upon the OHR and OSCE gentlemen, then let them tell us if they will impose this. I don't believe he'll impose. If I were them, I wouldn't dare impose this. If they want to impose us as a temporary solution, please, please, this country is still under temporary solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4577	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Lagumdžija has made clear to us the views of a political option. They also presented it at the OHR meeting and I do not understand how Mr Marković and Mr Bogičević, when Mr Moris explained the European Convention on Human Rights, the organisation of the state, what are the advantages, which are flawed and what needs to be brought into line with. The same story was repeated by Mr. Lagumdžija, what Mr. Bogičević and Mr. Marković were saying. Mr. Moris has answered all these questions. I, unfortunately, don't want to say it again. But this way, I say again, this way of setting a condition or that justice is one political option that will not vote for this draft, which is a condition, is unacceptable in Parliament. Gentlemen, vote for the Draft, and we'll fight further, and see if we can come up with a proposal for what we're looking for. You want something to be promised in advance to enter the bill. No one can and no one has the right to ask here. So, I think it's all clear, Mr. Banjac. The debate is over, give a conclusion that is common to the draft and the public debate and let's make it clear and see who is who, who wants a draft, who won't draw. We are full of the mouth of the Electoral Law, full of the mouth of human rights, and we are constantly imposing something in this poor country that we cannot normally do laws beyond the Constitution and all that we need to do to create even greater chaos.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4578	Replica, but let me finish, we know what you're going to say to each other, do you want me to answer? 44
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4579	Mr. Rakić, I greatly appreciate what you said as your position with which, naturally, I disagree, not only because we come from different political options, but in a concrete solution we disagree. I just want to draw your attention to one thing. We do not justify ourselves to anyone, nor to the international community, which we will be against the solution in its original form as it is given here. I repeat, we're not making excuses. That's what I want the public to know. We don't make excuses. We're trying to take a step towards some common ground. Mr. Rakić, and you, and I'm not just talking to you. The SDP has its own law that has been proposed, which is completely different from this and our position is completely different from what was given here, but we draw attention to that we cannot accept, the bottom line is respect for the Convention on Human Rights and we cannot accept it. We don't justify it, we draw attention to it. We, therefore, must also tell you, since you mentioned two of my colleagues, the head of the SDP Club in this House who, unfortunately, was not able to come here, Mr Bogičević and Mr Marković and the vice president of the party and one of the people who was one of the creators of our solutions in the Electoral Law and these amendments that we have now given. You see, these two men are at meetings where you were present to expose SDP's views. You're surprised I'm repeating those attitudes now. gospoda Marković and Bogičević, according to the Law as proposed here, are discriminated against because they belong to a nation and live in the wrong place, as some claim that Mr. Moris has said here, and he told us that although I do not know what is true, we will leave it to talk about it later, but, Mr. Bogičević and Marković, mentioned here, would be discriminated against under that law. I do not accept that anyone from the party I belong to, that anyone from this BiH be discriminated on any basis and that is why I cannot accept anything but speak as they say. I'm not personally discriminated against by this law. The people you mentioned, they did, and they didn't talk about it because they were discriminated, but because they think the way we think about that political option. Please, we will not allow anyone to be discriminated against, and what Parliament will adopt, there is no problem. I repeat once again, I do not justify myself, but we have just lowered the threshold of the amendments that we have delivered here on two amendments, we say that they represent a solution that opens up the possibility of us talking further, just for two, of the 14 amendments that we have delivered. We did not say at all that these 14 must be, but two are discriminatory, not towards Marković or Bogičević, but towards the citizens of BiH, depending on where they parked after the end of this war with their apartment or their residence, whether they were there or not, and we cannot accept it, and, Mr. Volan, I would like you to know, that you do not have the wrong impression, that there is no justice for the SDP or the OHR, or the OSCE, or anyone. On the contrary, we will be in our positions which you know to the end. I'm sure our end won't be.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4580	Ladies and gentlemen, since the motion for a vote has emerged, one proposal is to declare ourselves on the Draft, and another is to declare ourselves on the Draft and in addition to the draft to be a discussion that has been tabled, including amendments submitted, even in unusual form, before the proposal is submitted. I must point out that the lower threshold, when it comes to human rights and fundamental freedoms, cannot be below that already in the draft of the law, which worked as an expert 45 group in which even the chairman of the Helsinki Committee for BiH, was not respected in the draft. Already in the form of the draft electoral law, we must be consistent and the issue of human rights, general, equal voting rights, but in the form of the draft must be resolved, if the group that worked in that composition... The second question, in addition to the general and equal voting rights and the Copenhagen document, I believe that there are at least two more issues that are equally important and equally large in the draft of the electoral law. Namely, the Madrid Declaration has made a commitment to draft an electoral law that will support multiethnicity in both entities and will support all relevant Commissions of Annex 4, Annex 3 and Annex 7. The way in which displaced persons are registered, the model we have tested for three years, which has been seen in practice, which is also offered in the draft of the electoral law in favour of cementing the consequences of ethnic cleansing, goes in favour of ethnic ghettoisation and goes hand in hand to completely disrupt BiH's demographic structure. In addition, in the first version of the draft electoral law, efforts were made to ensure this multiethnicity through the question of proportionate authorities both at the municipal level and at the cantonal level, as well as at entity level. In the new version, a voluntary wording was left for "taking account" which, on some occasions, means "not keeping an account". I believe that the issue, in line with the obligations that the Election Law supports multiethnicity, the executive authority at all levels would have to maintain the structure according to the last census. These are three large remarks that must be contained in the draft electoral law, and even in the vote to put the draft of the electoral law, as it is, with respect to these remarks, to the vote, I must express my skepticism and abstention regarding such a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4581	I didn't think I'd have to say what I was going to say, but what you're going to say is not easy to be in Parliament. About three years ago, the Interim Election Commission was formed in BiH, which was chosen according to the criteria of legal and political independent expertise. In its composition, there were, from one nation, some people who had the same last name and family ties, and were shown to be independent, but it was interesting to have a member of the Commission who was a member of the Interim Election Commission until the day before it was time to apply for the general election for members of the BiH presidency, and a day before the deadline expires, mentioning a member of the Commission leaves the Election Commission and is running for elections. That's one historic case. The second is that, we all sign that we will support the Dayton Agreement, as we call it, and that the OSCE is regularly registering in the previous elections twice the party called For the King and the Fatherland, which neatly declares that it supports the Dayton Peace Agreement. A third thing, and that's why I didn't want to say until now, but now I have to. After the intervention of the Deputy Head of Mission in BiH, which is about this way that they don't mind us finding a consensus, that they wouldn't want to be our partners at the moment. I think it's, at the very least, cynical, given everything we've done so far. Namely, the OSCE or OHR, which formed the Working Group, without asking anyone from this Parliament who will be the 46 working group for the establishment of a permanent ILO, what will be the political basis of the permanent Election Law, i.e. the Election Law, which is an extremely important, fundamental political debate in the world. Today, I'd say, he's pulling out of the battlefield and leaving so-called. an inter-party intra-parliamentary dialogue to find solutions to the situation. Gentlemen, the legislator must bear responsibility for the bill's proposal until the end of the term, so until the election to vote or not to vote on the law. Therefore, Mr Drago Ljubičić and the gentlemen you are helping, you cannot escape responsibility for the solutions in the law that we came to on the basis of the Working Group, whose composition no one knows in Parliament now to list, which, therefore, I used the principles of three years ago, may have been drawn up on these grounds. We're not running away from our own responsibility. You have spent millions of marks and the final text was a list of members of the PSBiH House of Representatives, or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with addresses, phones, thank you very much, because I was called by 200 people, 200 people, that is one good decision by the OSCE, which has been very justified to me that I cannot support this as a representative, that this is a good solution, it is not a good solution, and all this is fine, but there is no work group composition in any media. There is no, or to be very precise, to lower the ball a little bit and to tell you very directly, you cannot escape from the responsibility of proposing such a draft of the electoral law, to transfer it to parliamentary MPs, and then to the variant of impossible solutions, between impossible solutions, at the end of the day, to something that will be, exulting with the variant, see, gentlemen, you can't agree, what we are going to do to you, now it's going to be how it's going to be. Gentlemen, it's terribly important to me whether an election fee will be paid, that's one small question. You didn't ask me if you'd have it in your original solution. Someone in the Working Group wrote this, not to mention a big question about the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. The BiH presidency, in the form of members, or chapters left out, and the House of Peoples of the State Parliament, are the same principled things of those MPs who stood, and who stood in the last two, three months after that. That's why, as law enforcement providers, we, but you, too, must face a vote in connection with such an election bill. I speak very precisely, let's face it, either the modification or the desire to modify, in that direction, one, the modification in that way, or the reaction of the PSBiH House today. I agree with Mr. Rakić and I took maybe a little too much time, almost nothing to talk about anymore, the vote will be, unfortunately, maybe the way it was a month ago. Why? Let us know who's proposing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4582	Ladies and gentlemen, every unspeakable gold seems to be worth it. I get the impression that when we all go out, well, we just can't help but say it, maybe it's good because it's parliament. I think the representatives of the international community are quite clear. If they do not intend to work against Srbin and against RS, there will be people who spend a lot of money, criminals and who have come to do this and that, etc. It's almost all taken here, gentlemen. RS lawmakers voted for the first draft of the law and were unanimous. Members of the Federation of BiH, except for the two, made serious reservations and said they would not vote for the law. Representatives of the international community have set out to seek compromise. Here are the MPs from the RS today for compromise. What will the international 47 community say today? Will Mr. Petrič say there is a group of irresponsible people working against BiH's interest. Are we going to be charged again because we support the bill? Will the approach of both you and the international community to us be balanced once? If we come to the same level as the MPs, let's get serious. Here is another compromise in front of the BiH public today. Enough outwitting with the international community and between us. We've been accused, gentlemen, of being. Mr. Petrič answered when you were liquefied and said he would impose the Border Service Act. Today, everything encourages Mr. Beri's promise not to be imposed. We're going after each other, then. Are we ready or aren't we? Enough election campaigns. I said when the milk is boiling, the water is added. And we seem ready, in a blatant fight to protect human rights, to free BiH from its citizens. Did we come all this way with cynicism, that everything bothers us that it's RS? That it bothers us, who argues that a Srbin from Sarajevo cannot be a member of the BiH presidency if it is proposed by the SDA and the SDP together, who says it can't? Who are we telling that the citizens are at risk? Who defends a Srbin from the Drava to vote in the Drvar, but cannot, gentlemen, be shown a fictitious return to Sarajevo as an election base for people who will not vote there. I ask you, come on, we are still giving way to compromise today in front of the public of BiH and the international community. We are grateful for the efforts of the Office of OHR and OSCE and the expert group, regardless of their name and name. Why not? But what happens next? So, if you are not willing to work against a group of MPs from RS, gentlemen, you in BiH are doing something that is on the verge of crime, thank you very much, they said, of course, other MPs, not me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4583	Is this a replica or a discussion? We've completed our discussions, people. I'm a long time ago, gentlemen, said there were no reports, and now you're signing up again. How far are we gonna go? No problem, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4584	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I think that here, indeed, there is more to be replaced. There's an incorrect allegation. A Srbin from Sarajevo, according to proposals, can never be elected to the House of Peoples, whoever suggests it and that is why we do not accept such a segregation law which means that people of Serbian nationality in the Federation of BiH cannot adequately represent their people's national interests or Bošnjak and Hrvat from RS. What is most important, what we have discussed as many times as you wish, is that every poll, every debate, will show that for the equality of the citizens of BiH, both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, and for the full active and passive voting rights, with guarantees of national equality, there is a consensus among citizens. There is no consensus among the elites who want to keep the status quo of the partial interests of national rights only in certain BiH territory, and in this context, no alleged thesis against RS, on how this SDP law went in its discussions and proposals, on the contrary. I'm telling you, I want you to check the opinion of the people in RS. I don't know which parts you consult your election base in. A moment ago, sir, people won't be equal. National interest must be defended in BiH's entire territory and I think, Špirić, that this is a complete replacement of thesis that is a little bit already recognizable and that needs to be reportedly talking about some co-operation. The SDP has no intention of being co-operative to bring down basic conventions on human rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is very clear there. There are no cooperatives here with us 48, whether it's an international community, whether it's political parties here. We will always support the activities of the international community, which are the protection of people from smuggling, crime, corruption, and therefore support the demand of the international community to declare the Law on the Border Service. We stand at the point that our views of any BiH institution will primarily measure from the aspect of our political option. We're not in those calculations as much as we are against who. We are for one program, for one policy option that is aimed at the future, not the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4585	Dear colleagues, it's a false allegation. My friend Špirić is here. I thought he was out. It is guilty that all RS lawmakers voted last time for the draft bill. Not everyone from the RS is present and I think indeed, colleague Špirić, and inappropriately and does not lead to productive work in this home, leadership, the use of these collectiveisms, either national, or entity. It's not because three, or two, as many as were from the RS, voted against the Draft. I don't think it can serve work and solve problems for which you also appeal, call for the collectiveism of entities in this home, we are individuals, we perform as MPs, or we perform as representatives of clubs or parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4586	I think Mr. Neimarlija is absolutely right. I told the RS MPs, and I apologize to my colleagues from the RS who voted against it, but unfortunately it wasn't the majority. There is no cynicism or the division of MPs as Mr. Neimarlija wishes to say, but it is indisputable what I was talking about. Sometimes someone says Serbian MPs from RS because under the Interim Election Law, unfortunately, or fortunately, they are MPs from the RS at the PSBiH Representative Council and a member of the RS presidency of BiH. Those are the rules that were like that. I have no intention of hurting anyone, as I have no intention of giving anyone the right that BiH is his country, and it is not mine, as I do not give him the right to not even the RS. I will always fight for the survival of the RS, as you, unfortunately, gentlemen, fight for RS to disappear. Alija Izetbegović is already preparing the cantonisation, we will see what these cantons will be and what they will encounter, but I assure you, we accept the work in accordance with the Constitution, it will be better for every citizen and every people in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4587	I'm taking the opportunity to just say two sentences because I've been brought into one position where I want to say, as an MP, and then I'm going to say as chairman. Dear Messenger, I suppose the rules of fine conduct require patience and when you cannot, but, behold, people speak when and when they can't and when they have nothing to say. Let me tell you, please, BiH is a complex two-entity state community and it's a reality. I beg you, if we want to get out of this dead end, don't attack it because there's no way it's going through. There's no theoretical way to pass. The fact that someone wants to ignore that there is a Federation of BiH and the RS and that we have joint institutions that are constitutionally called BiH institutions and that these are institutions that came from these entities and that they form, entities form those institutions, don't ignore it. We lost a day here today. I'm sure we're at 49, just like 15 or 20 days ago, and we didn't do anything. There's nothing else for us but to sit together and make the law, and this is going to go down and this is going down. But also, don't ask for solutions that are contrary to the Constitution and talk about how you love RS more than I do or that I prefer the Federation of BiH than you do, neither one of them is true. We all live in BiH, such as this, and we all have some kind of local-patriot tendency, less or greater, but what we need to understand is BiH is what it was created by Dejton and it is not possible to overturn because it does not give the world, not that the international community and it has to be legal, among other things, and the Electoral Law. I'm asking you to move from empty stories to action. I get the feeling this isn't going to work out today, I see about how things are going. That's why I think we should find so much power to sit down and draft an election law, to form, if this doesn't pass, form a single parliamentary group that will make a proposal that will satisfy the compromise everyone. If we don't, we're going to meet again and it's going to fall again, but remember, it's going to fall all the way up until you realize that RS and the Federation of BiH are a reality that can't be changed. I have to take a 15-minute break now. Break, after the replica. I can't take a man's right to seek a break. Here, at 6:25 a.m. here. What am I supposed to do? We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Jahić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4588	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we are now two ways ahead of this multi-hour debate, we have the opportunity to make known about this new version of the permanent election law draft, and we also have the opportunity to make a statement about this version of the permanent electoral bill, or to ask the motionary to consider a little more detail of all the remarks that could be heard in today's debate and to sort of declare himself, or to say what he thinks about the remarks and suggestions that could have been heard during today, so that the matter could not be cut in one unfavourable way. Given the importance of matter, given the essential dimension of this law for the future of BiH, I don't think we will get anything by now if, at all costs, we approach the plea, risking that exactly what is happening to this House's chairman, Mr Banjac, in some way, by my own court, justifiably provided that in this statement, the draft of the permanent electoral law will not again receive the necessary majority. I, of course, know that this will allude many to the fact that it is some kind of political stance that a certain political group has under the text of the permanent electoral law draft, however, I am deeply convinced that a large number of MPs from many political groups in Parliament will not give their vote for the proposed version of the permanent electoral law, so I would suggest that we do not scrutinise the matter, that we leave room for the promoter to take into consideration and make it clear because of the gravity of the remarks that we could hear here and that, after the proposal has been made, we approach the statement. I don't think we're losing anything, and it would be extremely illogical to expect a situation where for the third time the draft of a permanent electoral law would be restored to procedure. So, to keep him in the process and try to make an effort so that, eventually, at the follow-up session or at the next session, we can declare a draft of a permanent electoral law, after considering the objections that could be heard today. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4589	Dear colleagues, I would once again, for justifiable reasons, draw that sentence that I gave in the last discussion that was most valuable tonight behind this pay phone. That sentence was spoken by Mr. Beri when he said that this law would not be imposed by anyone, that it would be brought here in the Assembly and that it would not be outside the BiH Constitution. In a discussion that has so far been on behalf of human rights, there has never been a session of more human rights violations, in the discussion in which we fought for the Constitution there was no longer any suggestion that the constitution would be broken. I hope that's very well-recognized. The illustration of all of this is best described in the post-festum, i.e. the postscription of the poem of Bećković ćeratić We will also garner and I will only read the last verse, I ask you to be careful, and I would ask the translators to make sure that the representatives of the international community try to translate correctly. I'll make sure he doesn't interrupt me. Chairman, please allow me. We're going to have a daughter. I'll read it, because any interpretation can be understood to be malicious. "We are going to spend more, but peacefully, purely legal, diplomatic means," so I'm going to skip a little bit, "better than one day in the open field, taking care of the general impression, aware that we are not alone and that the whole world is watching us, that we show another person, whoever sees to say: "Look, honor you, how handsome and smart we have sinned our souls towards these people. Who would have thought they were the same ones that we thought by yesterday they couldn't get around this fine, without a dead head and a wrinkled intestine?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4590	It's a finished quote. Let's bring the debate to an end. No more discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4591	Something that, in the end, at 6:15 p.m., might look cute. He can't look cute to me. Poema, with this name, from this author, after all these years, can't be presented to me to understand it the way a respected representative wants it in this place. I do not expect these people from these places, from this political option, to send me messages today at the BiH Parliament, even if they are called poems. Mr. Dokić, I beg you not to do this to us at Parliament no matter your noble intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4592	The debate is over, we have more options, as usual. The first conclusion I suggest, you know that we have had the practice of voting on the draft so far, we say that we plead on the draft, that it goes in the procedure, that we deliver the stenograms and the rest, so the proposer makes a proposal. If we think we should make it. Since the motioner here has made a statement on the remarks and proposals of the MPs, we cannot plead to the statement. It's never happened here, and don't do it. Don't ask me to precedent this Kolegijum. The promoter said what he thought about it, we heard it. What can I do now? He said 51 what he said. He said he wouldn't accept it, and what he accepted, that's what we heard here. Don't say we didn't hear. We agreed to have a man come out and talk. That's why I suggest the next conclusion. pitati will ask you, who is for the draft of the electoral law, proposed by Drago Ljubičić, to be referred to the procedure of making the proposal, and, of course, after that, will be delivered to the promoter and the stenogram from this debate, so that he can see what happened here and suggested. That's one suggestion. I ask that we plead on this proposal, as it is said here, individually. Bećirbašić Smail – abstentioned Branković Nedžad – abstentioned by Čaršimamović Ivo – abstentioned by Filipović Mediha – v Genjac Halid – v. Jahić Adnan – v. Kadić Rasim – v. Dokić Špirić – v. Pamuk Mustafa – not present Spahić Ibrahim – was present, Lagumdžija Zlatko – v. Muminagić Suad – v. Tokić Sejfudin – v. Havel Ana – v. Balt Ivica – vs. Skopljak Pero – abstentioned Dragan Radenko – v. Baković Mirković – v. Lozančić Miodrag – for Bošnjak Milenka – for Jovanović Branislav – for Rakić Vito – for Rađević Desanka for Rakić – for Perkanović for Banjac – for Mirko? Voting is like this: for 11, versus 12, abstention 7. Total vote 30. The draft election law did not receive the necessary majority to go into the draft procedure. Given that the motioner has made it clear about this conclusion proposed by Mr Lagumdžija, I see no reason to put it, because the promoter has made it quite clear what he thinks about it, because it is not a practice for the Proposer to plead against 52, and that we put it to the vote. It wasn't a practice until now, not in any case at all. If we've acted so far, no problem, if the MP insists, I can't stop it. I'm asking Ambassador Lagumdžija here to finish my sentence, I'll give my word. The promoter has pleaded not to accept the suggestions you spoke of, not to accept. In past cases, in such situations, we have not pleaded to what the motionor does not accept. If you insist, I'll put it to a vote, if we've done it before.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4593	Ladies and gentlemen, the usual practice when an amendment to a certain law is submitted, i.e., in this case, when a proposal for a conclusion is submitted, the Proposer may reject the amendment, but this does not prevent Parliament from pleading.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4594	These aren't amendments, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4595	In this case, analoguely, the proposer has declared himself unable to accept Mr Lagumdžija's proposal, but I am convinced that the promoter himself would be happy to see that this House will be declared in connection with this conclusion and will be very happy if that conclusion goes through in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4596	Let me get this straight. So far, there has been no case for us to vote on anything why the promoter has not said yes. I can't give an amendment here, this is a draft. The amendments are made to the proposal, and if the MP doesn't give up, I'll put it to the vote, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4597	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, I believe that the forces are at an end, but, behold, I am taking the opportunity to take the office of the OHR and the OSCE, the Espert Group and everyone who took part in making this, unfortunately, a draft that did not receive support, thanks, first of all, to the effort and goodwill, because their quest to come to a compromise was stronger than ours, and that is the shame of this Parliament. I tried to be consistent from my first debate to my last sentence and offered a compromise. The second thing, you looking for amendments to a draft you didn't accept, I think that gymnastics has been recognised in BiH. Here's the conclusion I made in writing, gentlemen, so today you've acted like you've never seen it before in your eyes. Is it true? It's like you haven't seen him in your eyes. I call on MPs not to fall for these, to say, SDP's bluff moves, and the international community has had a chance to figure out who she was dealing with during the draft of this law. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4598	Poslaniče Lagumdžija, are you staying at the conclusion? Wait till I ask the man, since the vote's over how it ended.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4599	Mr. Chairman, I'm just afraid we're unnecessarily raising tension right now. There's no reason to be nervous. Now that we're not nervous about everything, because we've come all this way, but there's no reason to be nervous right now. I remind you, Mr. Chairman, which, I must admit, you've made one logic, I have no idea that you could, as I say, construct it. I remind you, I came out with our views, explained the entire genealogy of our amendments and gave the essence of our amendments, unless it's being amended. We called upon the promoter, Mr. Vollan said very clearly and precisely that he is not in a position, nor at all their concept, to accept or accept all of those amendments and those principles and concrete remarks that we have made. After the motioner has made his point, I remind you, my conclusion was not the conclusion that I asked to make a statement, but I remind you, after our suggestions and remarks were rejected, I only came out on the basis of this proposal of the conclusion. It's not about the rejection of the SDP amendment, and we're not voting on it right now, but we're voting on the conclusion I suggested based on the fact that the promoter wasn't ready to respect the whole of our proposals, and then I reduced it all to one... and I even dictated it to you. I'd like to ask you, if you can't find it, since you acted like you were writing, to remind you. I said then, I ask Parliament to make a statement on the conclusion, which no longer has anything to do with the proposaler or not. The bottom line is. The text of the draft Drago Ljubičić, with the adoption of the solution set out in the SDP amendment 8 and 9 concerning the House of Peoples, is the basis for the draft law, respecting the views expressed in today's debate, that is, the proposal for a conclusion. A proposal for a conclusion that involves the possibility of moving from the point we're at today, right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4600	I'm asking you now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4601	To make a conclusion that came out of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4602	I ask you, MP, as far as I understand it, but here still, as far as I understand the OSCE gentleman, he quite precisely said that what he offered was what he had to go in making a proposal. In other words, if I'm wrong, I beg to be translated. If I have misheard, that I am corrected by a gentleman, which means that none of today's remarks have been accepted by the promoter. Did I get it wrong, let the gentleman plead. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4603	And now you've left me behind the pay phone so that he can plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4604	No, no, let me tell you that I don't abuse yours, I wrote it right and you shouldn't have doubted it. There's no need for cynicism or for you or me, but the fact that I'm going to read it. I just wanted to clarify the situation, not to make it more complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4605	You had two things that you asked for Parliament to come out by this point of the motion of Drago Ljubičić, the draft law that would go for further discussion and our proposal that came out of the discussion on this draft, respecting the solutions that I pointed out to go further as, to go further into the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4606	No problem, Zlatko. I'm just asking if the promoter wants to make a statement about this. It's not a problem, I'll give it to you, just to see what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4607	I'd like to ask you to be a little more patient. It's always important to me when you talk about something, what you're talking about, and the least important thing is who's saying it or who's writing it. What I just read took a picture of our situation here. Apparently, those MPs, I now responsibly claim, those MPs, who have been privileged over a long period of time by certain structures here, have now come into a different situation, that is, they have encountered reality, and in this reality they cannot possibly cope. Please, a request, an example, that the Law will respect the Constitution, or that the Law will enter into the draft, or from the Draft, into the proposal, is the same as if I were to ask you, the chairman, to vote whether I am present here at this moment in this assembly. There's no need anymore. Tell the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4609	We have a clear proposal for this law. We have been discussing and it is normal in the stage of the draft to vote on the draft and to say that the legislator will take our views into account and to make it clear. If we are now at this stage explaining what must be entered into the bill, I will leave the assembly at this moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4610	I can't forbid people to propose. Don't put me in a position... 55
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4611	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you need to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that is what you should do, but in principle, that you have an equal relationship with everyone, which is obvious to this whole Bosnian-Herzegovina public that you do not have. You, in the course of the vote, on the conclusion that has been formulated in the debate clearly, are opening a debate with the objectives that you only know. I pray, if you insist so much, if the Proposer opposes that this PSBiH House of Representatives declares that position, we are prepared to withdraw our position, if the Proposer believes that the PSBiH House of Representatives should not be declared to be legitimately proposed and the conclusion we propose to this high home. Please, so if the motionary is not opposed, come on, don't let this show we have now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4612	Sir, I just want to keep it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4613	I see what you want. It's clear to everyone what you want. I beg you, lead the session. You have the text of the conclusion. If the motion is against a plea, we will withdraw our conclusion. I'm obliged to put this to a vote and I want it to enter the stenogram that this is a precedent, because the motioner has pleaded against this and I'm going to put it on request.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4614	Well, what did he say?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4615	I suggest that MPs be made aware of the next conclusion. The text of the draft electoral law, proposed by Drago Ljubičić, while accepting the solutions set out in the text, you will not listen to me read the conclusion, I do not know what you want. I really don't understand you. I read, and everyone talks to himself. I'm reading again. Text of the draft electoral law, Proposer Drago Ljubičić, with the adoption of the solutions set out in Amendments 8 and 9. The SDP is the basis for drawing up an Electoral Law proposal, taking into account other views given in the debate. Did I guess, Mr. Lagumdžija, your conclusion? Is it okay like this? Well, you know, I added a lot of what you didn't, because it was far from your conclusion, so I wanted to supplement it, so I asked. I've improved. How many are there? – 22 – Are we going individually again? Alagić Raifa – for Branković Nedžad – abstentioned by Čaršimamović Tarik – for Filipović Mediha – for Genjac Halid – abstentioned by 56 Jahić Adnan – abstentioned by Kadić Rasim – for Neimarlija Hilmo – abstentioned by Lagumdžija Zlatko – for Muminagić Suada – for Bećirbašić Smail – for Havel Ana – against Pašalić Deretić – against Skopljak Pero – there is no Špirić abstentioned Nikola Vito – against Banjac Mirko – abstentioned Lozančić Ivo – against Rakić Mirko – against PerkanovićRadenka Mare there is no Rađević Desanka. Since it voted 22, it didn't go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4616	What do you mean, it's not? Most of those present who vote, is that worth it?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4617	If it's worth it, then it's worth this, so we'll go to the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4618	Let's hear the OHR's position. We have this problem. Today we had the OHR's stance restrained as they were treated. Here's most of those who voted yes. We need to wait for the OHR's position on this. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4619	We can entity now. Now we're going to see the entity. There's no entity from either one or the other. You'll see now. You don't have 10, you don't have an entity majority, the law is down. There's no need for him, he can't go to the alignment, gentlemen, because in the second round... Mr. Tokić, you're an unserious man. Will you get serious? The law didn't even get an entity majority. He didn't get it, here, count it. He didn't get a prostate, because there's no... 57
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4620	Please, we have today had a situation on the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Council of Ministers Act, where we had a similar situation, in the vote of all those present, so most of those present who voted, it is necessary that some law, decision be adopted in both the first and the second rounds, most of those present who voted. In today's Law, we had of those who were present, there was a small number who voted in favour, but there was one number of abstentions, and that way, when only those who were abstentioned and only those who voted in favour, there were more who voted in favour. The proposal was to treat it, these abstentions, as if they didn't even vote. I was against it today because I don't think it's consistent. The conclusion was to wait for the OHR's position. Since we have the same situation here, please wait for OHR's interpretation of the results of the vote and then to announce.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4621	No entitetski, but in the first round, if Halid does, I agree with Mr. Halid. We don't have anything. Look out, there's no problem. The principle can apply the same. To go to the alignment, he didn't pass, but he could get a chance to go to the alignment, but he didn't pass, so you know, it depends on the OHR's answer, whether he's going to go to the alignment and I agree with that. The entity majority is not a condition for alignment. Don't bother about it. It's not a condition for him to go to the alignment, it's in the second round, two-thirds, don't do that. This is the first round. He can go to the alignment if he responds to the same principle.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4622	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I, of course, would like to impress this new interpretation, but, of course, I ask that only the College for which the interpretation is going, and in this context I would like to call for OHR to be declared also on the adopted law, the draft of SDP election law voted for by 12, against 11, and three MPs were abstentioned, as well as the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Tokić and Proposer Ivo Divković, let me just read, 9 was for, 16 was abstentioned. So these two laws have passed through this new interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4623	There's no quorum in the O.R., that this is no longer valid...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4624	Let's just get this into the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4625	He can't come in, I'm interrupting the session because there's no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4626	It already entered the stenogram before you interrupted the session. 58 There's no quorum. I've now been notified by the Secretariat, and now I've been informed by the Secretariat that there is no quorum. That's what the Kolegijum will decide. People went home, I can't bring them back now. We'll let you know in writing. The seat is closed at 7:10 p.m. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4628	MPs, honored guests, representatives of information funds, I welcome you all very much. We are continuing the work of the 17th session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Before we move to point 3 below b, I'd like to inform you of the next one. You have just received a table of legal opinions from the OHR, and the position on the same issue has also been taken by the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. In line with this, I declare that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Vita Rakić, was adopted at this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4629	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, we have received today an interpretation of the OHR Office, as we asked. The OHR interpreted one possible way of interpreting the vote in the PSBiH House of Representatives, in terms of the OHR's office, has, at our request, provided an interpretation of the vote at the PSBiH House of Representatives and the treatment of the votes held. They interpreted, in the text, that the vote of those who were abstentions was treated only for quorum, and the votes of those abstentions were treated as if they had not voted, so only the votes for and against the establishment of the majority are counted. In my opinion, it's quite all right and it has no problems either way, the way I'm treated with abstention is constitutional, it's just as we agree and what model of voting we accept. I'm in favour of accepting this voting model, anyway, we're looking for OHR's opinion and there's not much to talk about. The problem, however, is that we have had a completely different approach in practice so far. In fact, the abstentions of the abstentions were treated as if they had voted, and in this way we established the majority, it was a practice in several laws which, if interpreted in this way, were adopted and received the majority. Repeating, in my opinion, it is quite acceptable to treat the vote this way and to interpret the vote in this way and to interpret it this way and I am merely expressing my doubts about the correctness of the vote and asking that the vote be repeated. I doubt the correctness of the vote because MPs, at the time of the vote, had in mind one voting practice and voted in that practice, bearing in mind what their vote meant abstained, then the interpretation that this abstention vote was treated differently. For these reasons, MPs were not aware at the time of the vote, i.e. that his vote would be interpreted differently in relation to the practice so far and I am expressing my doubts and I think it is entirely justified to doubt the correctness of the vote and, in accordance with my rights and Rules of Procedure, ask that the vote be repeated for these reasons. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4630	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I think this is very important information and I welcome the fact that, as a House of Ministers under this interpretation, we have passed another Law which is crucial to overcome the anti-constitutional position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but at the same time I would ask the Kolegijum to do what we tried to do in the conduct of the session, which is the same approach to all issues and it is impossible for the same chairman to declare, according to analogy, one law that we had recently passed, and that the other law with the same analogy declares that it was not accepted. In this context, I would like to point out: that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, that is, the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Divković and Tokić, was unanimously adopted at last session, I am holding here a proposal for a record that has not yet been adopted. The bill was voted against by 9 against no one, and 14 votes were abstentioned. We have a law that was unanimously adopted and in this context I demand that this law be declared. At the same time, I would ask the College not to hold the debate at the next point, but to complete the statement, given that the SDP Election Bill has received the required majority. I quote the same chairman: “That the draft law voted 12, against 11, three MPs were abstentions”, so the Law was passed. In that context, if you are not offended, given that you are quite easily offended, I would ask that this item of the agenda, the next item, be passed in the statement, at the same time that this legal interpretation of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which we are proposing, is declared a law that has received the required majority. Any other approach would indeed, from the way in which the session has been held so far, in our opinion, in two different ways, there have been different criteria, indeed leading to a general confusion and unacceptable behaviour in the vote. In accordance with this, I am asking the chairman to do what I just said and to ensure, by the same rule, that these laws are declared by the laws that we are, or the votes that I spoke of earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4631	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, perhaps this is not the illogical situation we are in, but here I will remind you only of the course of the debate, concerning the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. There is no dilemma that this law has been passed and there is no dilemma that he has received a positive interpretation of the OHR Office. The other thing is whether MPs were so party-tightened to bring down the law, hoping that the BiH presidency, which has entered the process of creating a proposal from the Council of Ministers, would likely build a more favourable variant for MPs waiting for an hour of another variant. But I ask that in front of the BiH public, it is very important that the public is present, that the citizens of BiH, face to face, see that there is a part of the MP, which is only waiting for the law to be imposed. Looks like we're unhappy when we bring the law ourselves. I ask you, if the law has been passed, and it is a positive interpretation of the OHR, to go into procedure, to solve the problem of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which in an unconstitutional position, so if there are objections, there are next sessions to initiate the process of amending and upgrading the law. Give me at least one law so we can say that we adopted it. I have the impression that MPs, in the order of some parties, realized that this vote was a fraud, because it seems they weren't aware themselves, that there was an option that would only be explained afterwards. That's why I'm really asking Mr. Genjac as co-chair, that if the voting process is over, there are no 61 chances of a business, that the procedure is re-entered. Please, let's put an end to this law and move on to other legal projects, which we say BiH is in great need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4632	The esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow MPs, I went out to intervene, not because of you MPs, because I am convinced that you all know the procedure and you all know 7-8 rows in the BiH Constitution that regulate this situation. I went out for public so she wouldn't be disabling. There's really more to be replaced here. There's a vote in the first round and there's a vote in the second round. The identification of those two votes, the equalisation, I can really only take it as malicious and as dissuading of the public. I would also remind myself that for this time since this congregation worked, and from the first day I was here, there has been no such situation. But I allow memory not to serve me enough, and I would like someone who claims that there was a similar situation, but if it wasn't interpreted like this, to tell us today. This is about a very clear situation taken out of the BiH Constitution, whether it liked it or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4633	Since it was directly relevant, and a direct answer is required. These 7-8 rows should really be carefully and carefully studied and understood. It's true it was the second round, but it's true we've had similar situations so far. In the second round, as well as in the first round, decisions will be made by the majority of those present and voting, provided the votes against include two-thirds or more delegates from each entity. The decisions will be made by the majority of those present and voting, that is an elimination condition. If that condition is met, then votes are counted on entities. That first condition is the same in both the first and second circles. This first condition is interpreted in both the first and second circles. This first condition we have so far, until the moment the vote is over, finished this point in the last session, interpreted in a way that the abstentions are counted, until then. At that moment, we took a break and requested an OHR interpretation. I fully accept that the OHR interpretation is accepted, but in principle and consistently, that it applies to all situations, there are no problems, for these reasons, I very clearly say, I challenge suspicion because the MPs did not know. It has been interpreted differently compared to the vote so far. For these reasons, I think the only way out of this is to repeat the vote on all disputed situations and in such a way that people, MPs, are aware of how their vote is interpreted, to approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4634	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? If he doesn't answer, I'm like the chairman of the office to give you an answer. 15 minutes off. Ma'am, I suggest we get back to work. [[PAUZA]] What about the wire? Dear gentlemen, I suggest we get started. I'm asking the representative of the SDP Club to take his word for it. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4635	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs -- MPs, the BiH SDP MPs' club is asking the Collegis, according to the legal opinion received from the OHR, to conclude at the beginning of this session, the follow-up session, the next conclusion. 1. The college found that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer Tokić – Divković, was unanimously adopted. 2. We ask that the College, in accordance with the legal opinion of OHR, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH, establish the following conclusion. That the draft electoral law, the proposer of the SDP Club, has received the necessary majority and can serve as the basis for the proposal. We ask that, according to this conclusion, the College act and that this conclusion is decidently promoted, given that with this legal opinion, we have already received the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, with six ministries, one chairman, on a very effective basis and with the support of all MPs, therefore unanimously, and that I think that the only law that has received the absolute, unanimous support of all MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. To realize that he was unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4636	I have no comment, MP, any moral norm.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4637	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, allow me to say that I agree with the predecessor and that is the only logical solution that is good for this situation that needs to be resolved. Let me take you a few minutes, read one text to make it go faster, which, by the way, concerns this problem and that bill that he assumed in the Constitution of rotation, parity, etc. Allow me, in the BiH Constitution, which forms an integral part of the Dayton Agreement, there is no basis for establishing a national parity and consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers. On the contrary, it is clear from the fact that the composition of the BiH Council of Ministers must be confirmed by most MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, that the Council of Ministers should reflect the result of the elections and that is the basic criterion by which both the mandate and the composition of the Council of Ministers are determined. If the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, however, establishes parity in the composition and consensus in the decision-making process, this will mean an obvious change in the Dayton Treaty, and the elections for the BiH House of Representatives will, in practice, be groundless, because the parliamentary majority will not have the right known in all parliamentary democracies, which is that Parliament, based on election results, determines the composition of the government, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, would ask you, just to read. This is another example, as the Dayton Treaty is changed in practice and it changes, in my opinion, has been revised and abandoned since 1996. The BiH party is not an apriori 63 against the parity composition and consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers' honour. We're not aprioriers against it. We just point out that at this point it is contrary to the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, as its component. The parity and consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers' decision can only be legitimately established if appropriate changes are made in the BiH Constitution as part of the Dayton Treaty. However, ladies and gentlemen, respected colleagues, this principle and these changes must be consistent, so that the introduction of parity and consensus into the BiH Council of Ministers is not offended, so that the results of the parliamentary elections are not impaired. We support these principles, as unique principles for all institutions of government throughout BiH. So we're not against parity and consensus, but if that's how we change the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, then we need to be consistent and that parity and consensus to establish everywhere and at all levels. The vital interests of a man, for example in Zvornik, in Trebinj, Jajc, Banja Luka and Sarajevo, are also important, local administration is also important, and more important to them who will be chief of police somewhere than who will be minister. So parity and consensus yes, but everywhere. Nothing important will change in the situation of BiH citizens if the parity and consensus is established only in the BiH Council of Ministers, while the majority of BiH's territory is operated solely by one-national authorities, starting from the RS government to the largest number of municipalities in BiH. Vital interests are not achieved only in BiH-level institutions. Vital interests are held by Bošnjak and Hrvat in RS, as well as by Srbin in the Federation of BiH. Vital interests belong to all three nations, in every municipality they lived in before persecution. So if the Dayton Treaty is already changing...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4638	Mr. Ambassador, please focus on what the subject is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4639	Here, I'm just finishing up. I think I'm talking about the matter of the BiH Council of Ministers, the rotation of the national parity. I from this, Mr. Rakić, have not concluded that the debate is closed. As far as I can tell, the debate is just starting. Unless, of course, you accept this proposal. If you accept this earlier proposal from my predecessor, then the debate is over, and that's why I'm only going to read one sentence. If the Dayton Treaty, the introduction of the national parity and consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers is already being amended, then it should be done at all levels of government, including the Federation of BiH and RS, as well as cantons, regions and municipalities. This will ensure protection from the majorisation of any nation in the entire BiH territory. One more sentence. The international community presented the Electoral Law as it is, that is, its Draft, calling strictly for the BiH Constitution. How come the principle is abandoned when it comes to the BiH Council of Ministers? The international community must make sure that double standards do not lead to strengthening this parliament, institutions and better life in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4640	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that whenever Mr Silajdžić does not attend the Representative Council, for one reason or another, there is no need to conclude the discussion. I have the impression that the process that is strongly advocated on the Dayton Peace Accords revision line aims to complicate such complicated relations in BiH, so as to get what out. Isn't it really hypocritical in the eyes of the BiH public that a man whose policy has haunted, advocates constitutionality on every inch of BiH? Does it really make sense to drag the people of BiH back into... Does it really make sense now to talk about some reciprocity between the government of RS and cantonal administrations, and on the agenda, it was warned, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH? A law that appears to have been passed by the BiH Party. If you think that the debate on everything begins, then we must, unfortunately, promise the citizens of BiH, who expect economic development, prosperity, investment and everything we promised them in the pre-election campaign, that we lied to them and that they are in grave error. So is there worse messages to representatives of the international community than to teach them every time, how hypocritical, dishonest they are, Bog knows for what reasons they are here, unless they support my party, Mr Silajdžić's party and I don't know which other party. After four years of war, aren't we even able to thank each other for good service?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4641	Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4642	I mean, as far as I'm concerned, the debate is closed and I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4643	I will request a hearing on the constitutional decision on the termination of the duties of the President and of the Vice-President, when it is on the agenda, at the next session. For now, let me just say, in a comment to what my predecessor said, that some policy has haunted here, that my policy has haunted, I remind you that from this entity where my predecessor came from, 715,000 people of non-Serb nationality have been expelled and that 3.9% has returned so far, 22,000 out of seven hundred thousand, twenty-two thousand people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4644	I'm sorry, gentlemen, but I have to rephrase this to a truly respected Member of Silajdžić and let me do it as an MP. Dear Ambassador Silajdžić, it is true that your predecessor comes from the entity where he was being persecuted, you have only missed the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4645	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of this debate that we're having right now, there's one story about missing people, and not just, it's hard to talk about the missed 65 people, because I've never heard it, because that's, well, it's a form I've never heard before. We said we'd focus on the question I answered. I really think we've had a long discussion about what the House of Representatives means and what it means to the House of Peoples and the way to decide. But I would like to say quite specifically about the proposal made by Mr. Tokić. It's about a very formal, important thing that should determine the further course of this session. In my opinion, if we have an interpretation of Mr. Banjac, who quite correctly asked, after a situation that was not clear to him, as chairman, from the business matter he has, if Mr. Chairman can listen, because I want to commend him for what he asked the OHR to think. I think it's very good that he asked the OHR for an opinion on how the PSBiH House of Representatives, which he chaired, should interpret its decisions. This is proof, as I would say, of a degree of guidance in our own Rules of Procedure and rules of play, which exist, our House of Representatives. In this regard, it is a tragic position when the chairman asks for the interpretation of his own Rules of Procedure, but, if it is the ultimate interpreter of OHR, which is according to the Dayton Peace Agreement, then it was quite correct of Mr Banjac to ask the question, not in the context of this law, but very correct, if he carefully reads the text he sent to the High Representative, he asked for an interpretation of the vote in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the application of Article 4.3.d. The BiH Constitution and it has been interpreted by Mr Banjac as referring to constitutional matter and the way they vote and decisions are being conducted and it is quite correct and it is a correct approach for Mr Banjac because he wants it to be a matter of principle, although I am sorry that we must ask him how and how to interpret our own decisions, because it is the position of parliament, but let's say that it is commendable and that he really deserves recognition, because he abstained from concreteising, let's say for this or that law, rather than focusing on the interpretation of one member of the Constitution. That's what I want to point out especially, because that's what it says, and that's what it says in the answer. Now, in this regard, I would like to say that it is quite right to make one decision today, to take, if you will, a break that the Constitutional and Legislative Commission of Mr. Kadić holds a session and not interpret the High Representative, but to try to make what Mr. Tokić specifically suggested to be, in some way, and the formal and legally covered interpretation of the High Representative on the request of Mr. Banjac. It is, in fact, that if we are reading the record correctly, Mr Tokić found that we, by general majority and consent, supported the transition from one stage to another law that they offered, it is logical that we have to stick to that order of things. Since this is an interpretation of Mr. Nikolas, it seems to me on behalf of the High Representative, very precise for future practice, but also for the topic discussed, there was the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, within this agenda we had the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH which proposed the SDP, the Law on the Council of Ministers proposed by the SDP, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was proposed by Mr. Rakić and there are other laws that did not come on the agenda, the BiH Presidency, Mrs. Havel etc. In my opinion, given that we have previously stated, in the same principle, firstly on the proposal, i.e. on the SDP Draft, it would be quite correct, since this interpretation does not apply to any specific law, but refers quite 66 specifically to Parliament's decision, to accept the request of the SDP MPs' Club, to ask the Legislative Commission to act on how the High Representative interpreted it, and how, apparently, there is an agreement that we are in future acting on the rules of the game that we are establishing. Since the Rules of Procedure are ahead of us, let's install this all that the High Representative has interpreted, so that there are no requisition requests from Mr. Skopljak for the same things. But as an MP, as a representative of the GDS, I insist that Mr Kadić now appoints a commission and that it be clarified about the position of the SDP Club, because it is quite correct, consistently derived from the interpretation of Mr High Representative. On this basis, we can continue to work on other points and allow today's parliament to be, in a way, fruitful in relation to other proposed points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4646	Now I don't know if I should answer as chairman or as an MP? I'll choose as an MP. I thought it was clear when I responded, when I responded to Mr Silajdžić's findings. Mr. Špirić comes from an entity called the Federation of BiH, so I thought persecution, if that's what you mean, he's from the Federation of BiH, he's not from RS. He's there forcibly in RS, that's what I thought. When it comes to what Mr Spahić is proposing, gentlemen, I would like to inform you, now in the capacity and MPs' capacity to give an opinion, and as chairman, I will say the conclusion. What has been declared has been declared. Retroactively, there's no going back. I mean it as an MP and it's quite clear. Of course, the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which we reacted to through the BiH Constitutional Court, passed with opposition from certain parties and individuals, but passed and reacted as it reacted. You have to accept the reality that's the case. I would like to say, as an MP, that for the first time in our practice, we had voted individually, not in the first but in the second vote, and that the situation had arisen and that the conclusion of this home was, on my proposal, that we were not going to scrutinise the conclusion rather than ask for the OHR to declare, not to put people in a position that was neither assigned to them nor asked for it, but that OHR interpreted Article 4, point 3. A constitution relating to the vote, not that it declares or does not declare a decision. That's what we do at the session, and don't let those two get involved. There was an opinion on the interpretation of a member, not the declaration of a decision. On the basis of the interpretation of the Constitution, which was literally prescribed in the Interim Rules of Procedure, I, as chairman, declared a decision which was not declared because we were waiting for the legal opinion of the constitutional provision on the vote and it was a final act. Retroactive return, speaking as an MP, there is no presently, gentlemen, because we would return, not to the beginning of this term, but to the one before us. Of course, all decisions that are made, which have not been declared before the interpretation, will have the same treatment. Look in agenda 18. The sessions and you will see that from that same session the second decision has the same treatment and that is quite clear and that is the decision proposed by Mr Lagumdžija. It's not a double archaic, and in the regular procedure, when we now have a built position of the Kolegijum on this matter, and we have a unanimously built position, when we have an interpretation of the Constitution by the OHR, a constitutional provision relating to this issue. Now we have two relevant attitudes, now it's going to be how it's going to be interpreted and there won't be any problems. I don't think there's any reason to go back to the decisions that have been declared, there's no business for that. If there is, call the Rules of Procedure, 67 where possible. As soon as someone points me to the Rules of Procedure where possible, I, as chairman of this House, will do my business properly. If it can be returned when declared, let it be shown where it is possible. Yes, it is. They're not two arches. The OHR didn't choose anything. It's not that either, don't say that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4647	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have received here the legal opinion of the OHR, on your request and generally refers to the voting procedure in parliament. There is no mention here of the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers, Vita Rakić, therefore, I do not understand that this legal opinion refers specifically to the procedure for the adoption of the law. I think this kind of legal opinion is acceptable, but it's acceptable for future situations. You cannot retroactively apply the legal opinion given on 25. February at the voting procedure that has already been carried out, because that's how you lead MPs astray. We voted because we knew that there was a certain interpretation, as we interpret the BiH Constitution, and we discussed on the Constitutional Commission many times in which category to put the votes that were abstentions. Our practice was to count abstentions as one kind of statement. However, this opinion is now contrary to that. If you accept that this is a legal opinion, that it refers to the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers Vita Rakić, you must repeat the vote because I, as an MP, have been led astray. I wouldn't be held back then, but I would vote against, like many of my coalition colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4648	You have forgotten that this declaration has been postponed and that at the beginning of this case I declared the law passed, as well as all other laws. Of course the dissatisfied party has a legal option.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4649	Please, Chairman, will you tell me which provision of the Constitution you call upon when you mention the law-proclaiming institute? Where it writes and what stage it is for you and where it says it is only metric and that only when you declare it is considered that the law has been passed, please tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4650	It shall be declared or not after the vote. The announcement has been postponed. Declared afterwards, based on two opinions and please kindly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4651	Mr. Chairman, you have either deliberately or intentionally confirmed the scenario at which this point was concluded. You mentioned the final act. You seem to have told us in front of all of us that you knew what you were doing when you asked for this interpretation and that you had brought us into this situation with your politics to the final act, please explain it. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4652	Now you're asking me as chairman. I didn't say it first because there's a stenogram, I didn't say what you said, and you have the right to think what you want, I have nothing against your opinion. You can think differently, of course, if you have an argument for it. I didn't bring anyone before any final act, nor was it my intention. It was my intention to, given the specificity of the situation that, responsibly, appeared for the first time in this form, I am responsible for saying this, to stop me from making a mistake. If you consider it a wish not to be wrong by the politics of the final act, it's your business again, I'm not getting into it. I said about the final act, I just said that the law was declared, as well as the other laws that were declared and that that was the end of the story of that law, and the other thing, it's not true that it can, that this is a final act. He's a perfect act in this home. The act of voting and declaration is over, sir. I think this debate is going on for no reason, the point is closed and...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4653	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I hope that you remember the end of the first part of this session where I told you to give me the word at the beginning of the sequel, but that was about the agenda point and I'm waiting for that agenda point to begin and to show you on this example how you tend to run the sessions, but now I want to say one other thing. In order not to argue, we have here a legitimate request from the SDP with two conclusions and put the two conclusions to the vote so that we can make a statement on all this. You want to close the session again without having put two conclusions to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4654	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I really don't know why such tensions are needed, what the SDP MPs' Club is asking is that the same topic, under the same agenda, from the same chairman, from the same College, is treated by the same rule, i.e. the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. We, as the SDP MPs' club, have no intention of making a statement about it. Everyone needs to do their job, Chairman. The OHR showed that when voting on the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, under which, under a) our proposal, Mr Divković and me and under (b) Vita Rakić, was not acted by the College, by the chairman, in accordance with the Constitution. We're asking him to make it right. It's supposed to be fixed, but you can't partially have different... according to one law, partial to the other. You have reached your conclusion, and what I am asking in the name of the SDP Members' Club is whether the College is able to fulfil its constitutional, business obligation and to establish, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and according to what OHR has stated clearly, that you should treat these acts. These two conclusions, if this is not determined, do not in our view exist conditions for the continuation of the session, because the College of Chairmans has led to a general chaos and is trying on the same law, the same item of the agenda of the same PSBiH House of Representatives, on the same subject, to establish different principles which is to bring down basic principles of equality. That, gentlemen, let me be free, a lot of even this college and you, Mr. Chairman of Banjac. That's inadmissible. According to 69, there is no vote. Here, I can wait here, will the College determine what needs to be determined in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, conclusion? If it is not to be determined, let us see, there are no more conditions, no more working elements, at least on these agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4655	Ambassador, stay, please. The 17th session had the next agenda, so I don't know what this is about, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4656	I am asking you, the chairman, not to make gymnastics from the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, the agenda point is not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4657	You're talking about a session that's over, painful. You're talking about the 16th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4658	No records have been adopted, no agenda item completed until a statement has been completed in accordance with the Constitution and the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4659	Please, sir, I'm telling you, I'm talking about the 17th session, you're talking about 16. You asked for a break for 10 minutes. Break 10 minutes. Gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] We held a meeting with both the College and the Club who asked for a break and I must tell you that the clubs of MPs from the RS and the Club of MPs, it seems to me the HDZ, agree, according to what I have now heard and two members of the Kolegijum about the next. Mr. Skopljak and I agree and these clubs, if I may say so, because I have now received information from Mr. Skopljak, that the approach that Mr. Tokić has proposed is to be respected, which is that the session is considered completed when the minutes are adopted. This means that the sekretarijat is now withdrawing and seeing what the votes were, with which number of votes, which could go to an entity vote, according to this interpretation as we adopted it, and that this vote would be brought to an end, because this conclusion by Mr. Tokić, which he has proposed, cannot be accepted for the following reasons. Under this voting principle, as it was, he could only in the first round of voting get the opportunity to go to entity voting. Since it has not been implemented entityically, it is necessary to see if it is true as Mr Tokić says, but to reshape this conclusion in that direction. He can't be adopted, but get the opportunity to go to an entity vote, which was not held then, going into further procedure. The same applies to the second conclusion of Tokić, the same approach. Mr. Tokić, I ask you on behalf of the SDP Club to make your statement, since you are the conjecturers, and let me just say, Mr. Genjac disagrees with that. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4660	I think it would be correct for a member of the College who disagrees with that word first, because we have joined here as a College. I have also proposed a principled approach for all issues that one measure should be applied and I have suggested that this interpretation be applied to all sessions which are not completed in the sense that they are not completed in terms of the adoption of the minutes and this is not disputed. I suggested that the chronological approach be made to all the points that were in those sessions, that one point at a time, where the vote is interpreted, be completed in that way, since we have two points directly connected here, one proposal for a Council law, another proposal on the Council of Ministers. One is chronologically the first, the other is chronologically the second. I suggest that the same principle be applied to all and that one point at a time the chronologically end on the same principle. This does not essentially alter the significant content of the conclusion, but allows for a consistent application of one principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4661	Time out for 15 minutes. They have the right to demand a break. We have 27 MPs present and we can continue our work. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking the representative of the SDP Club to take his word for it. We agreed on the next one. In principle, we return only to an unfinished session and it is a session for which no minutes have been adopted. So, for which no record has been adopted. Because until the minutes are passed, we believe that there is an opportunity for intervention. We agreed, too, that there was no repeat vote, but that if the vote was not brought to an end somewhere, to bring it to the end and to deliver these points chronologically to us the sekretarijat and to bring the vote to the end where it was not brought. We suggested, it's already in the stenogram. Here, he heard what the College is, and I'm asking the College to prepare this report for us, which is now being told. Should we do it again? One more time, please. We're going back with the analysis and the 16th session, since the minutes from the 16th session haven't been adopted. The analysis will include, to see which points of the agenda had one round of voting and was not conducted according to this principle entity voting. So... there is no repeat vote, but we need to see what the points are, according to the current position of the Kolegijum and the interpretation of the OHR, could go to the second round of voting and that chronological order will go to the second round of voting. There's no repeating. The chronological order will go to the vote, and proposals will be sent to the House of Nations in the order they were adopted. We're taking the vote to the end. I'm asking the College to prepare us, and we're going to be in session, and I suggest we continue our work, since this is not a questionable matter, this will be prepared quickly for us by the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4662	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, it is perfectly clear that we belong to the Members' Club and that we are MPs and representatives of the political party that is here in the minority, or political parties that are in the minority. We do not claim to make a law on the BiH Council of Ministers and to tailor the Council of Ministers because it expresses the political will of the parliamentary majority. All our efforts are aimed at getting this country to the Council of Ministers, regardless of the fact that it will not reflect the political position of our party, both 71 structurally and personally, it is perfectly clear. We don't have the political ability to do a thing like that, that we are the ones who create the Council of Ministers here, not structurally or personally. All of our efforts so far have been focused on getting out of the constitutional crisis and out of the complete blockade in which we set fire. It is encouraging for us to hear that the College has come up with a proposal that we have heard here, we are giving up on our proposal, which we had prepared for this at this time in the hope that the procedure under this procedure will not reopen new debates and divisions in this House about things that we do not need to share today. Mr. Banjac, I want to make it very clear. We want to give this College a chance to complete what the three of them have agreed to. But please, Mr. Banjac, don't let things unwind in the direction you're headed at one point today. I would like to appeal once again to you to try to lead the session by reaching the law on the BiH Council of Ministers, without the politicizing that was present here. If it moves in the direction of politicisation, we will engage in an appropriate way, with our proposals, suggestions and solutions. We don't want to in any way, and I ask you to stop now until we bring this to an end, any kind of politicizing that will talk about missed peoples or peoples or something like that. I'm not a missed man because the geller hit me in this war, but it doesn't give me the right to talk about it. There are people here who have passed through and without bullets and without gellers, and we should not share who has been hit in this war or not, today when we talk about the BiH Council of Ministers. I ask you to go in that direction and we therefore give up all of our proposals that have been here, just to get to the Council of Ministers, to make this country work, beyond our will, but at least with your will.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4663	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4664	Honored MPs, I really can't go out with one indignation about OHR right now. We've been working in one way for a year and a half. Today we come with another conclusion. I accept this, with the conclusion that it's a different decision. I accept that this is the case, but I ask that we now prepare the Secretariat – the secretariat of the way the OHR has proposed and that we adopt it at parliament and then continue to work, not to guess whether it will be from the 16th session or not from the 16th session, but from today's 17th session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4665	Please, I want to draw attention again. The OHR did not give any guidance on the vote, but interpreted Article 4(3). The Constitution, which is literally copied into our Rules of Procedure. It's literally overwritten. The Kolegijum held on 16th, whether I am right, 16, also took a stand and we do not have here, as parliament, to take a position on what and how we will vote. It's prescribed, gentlemen. If we were wrong, we were wrong, and it's human, but the question of whether there are responsibilities would have to be put in place all those before us and from the very formation of this home in this composition and in that previous composition. All of this could come into question if we're going back to forever. I prefer to accept this position by Mr Lagumdžija, who has made it clear that we are simply 72 by one constructive way forward, and I support it from the bottom of the soul, and therefore we have returned to the 16th session, whose minutes have not been adopted and each of the MPs, since each of the MPs, according to this interpretation, will be completed when the minutes are adopted and I think it is fine, that they can always intervene until the minutes are adopted and until we are back. I think it's principled. The way we went back and saw it. I don't see the reason that, now is this a new moment compared to what we agreed on as a Kolegijum, so it's not a new moment, so it's not, it's just an embarrassment. Mrs. Havel isn't looking for any new moment, she's simply looking for access.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4666	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Banjac, I only answered because you interpreted me completely unnecessary. Please don't interpret me, there's no need. I made our attitude very clear. Given that the College has agreed and that you have succeeded in reaching a consensus on something and have made it clear to us, they have said here that you see how we will get out of this without further discussion, discussion, opening the topic, that you have found a procedure that will lead us to the Council of Ministers of BiH. We gave up our proposal for it, not because we think it can be constructive, by affecting part of you. This is the first time in the last few sessions that you've agreed on some important political situation, the three of you. We were just asking you to do it all the way. For us, it is a completely irrelevant issue of rotating the BiH Council of Ministers' chairmanship in a situation where whoever is second will not be able to make the turn, because they all go together anyway. So, I mean, don't open those questions. Please, don't interpret us, please, conduct the procedure until the end. I repeat, assuming you've agreed, and you claim to be. Please, bring us to the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4667	Please, could I have a brief consultation of the Kolegijum, please, here are five minutes in the O.R. You heard our position on how we're going to do it and it's going to be the first point of the 18th session, since we can't change the agenda of this session. We'll continue to sit where we left off. We've stopped at the Electoral Law, we're proposing the SDP Club, and at the 18th session, we're going to put this vote to an end, we're going to formulate a point in this direction as I told you. We're not going to argue, but we're going to put the first item on the agenda, because now we can't, the College doesn't think it can change the agenda that's already set for the 17th session. We're going with the SDP Election Law, that's our position. That's the attitude of the Kolegijum, sir, to the Kolegijum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4668	73 [[speaks from place and no exposure can be heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4669	We said, sir, that by the principle of voting that is now included, we're going to conduct an analysis of the full debate from the 16th session and see what the points are, these won't listen. I can't beg you to listen and then say you haven't heard. Of course you didn't hear. Will you listen? We continue, sir, point 3. sub b) with the 17th session. This is the extension of the 17th session, and what you're looking for is the remainder of the 16th. And it's not included in the 17th, so we're going to put it on the principle that we said as the first point at the 18th session, which is immediately scheduled after this one. You'll have a chance to react when you hear it. This isn't 18, this is, sir, 17. Let's move on. Gentlemen, we are continuing our work. Next item is Ad.3. Point b) Proposer's election law of the SDP Club, we're discussing the nacrt I bitin't open the debate, have a seat, sir. Just until I open the debate, you can. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4670	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen and colleagues, I must truly admit that the collegiation of the College lasted very short. Now, Mr. Banjac, you're opening a debate on our election law, and in the next session, you're going to put it in a procedure to see if this is actually already adopted. So, Mr. Banjac, we thought it logical that the coming to the agenda of that session that you say is next, and the coming to the agenda of the continuation of the procedure on the Election Law and the Council of Ministers of BiH, etc., as regards the Election Law and the Council of Ministers will not be discussed until then, so that I, Mr. Banjac, suggest that you agree in the College on what is on the agenda until the moment we reach the activation of your conclusion that you in the College have agreed. In other words, Mr. Banjac, I think it's unnecessary that we are now discussing, that we are even less voting on something that we will see at the next session after your conclusion whether we have voted earlier and, if we haven't, to go to the second round, to see if there is enough or not, and then you will go back to the consensus and at the 19th session you will inform us about it, and now at 17. we need to discuss it. Mr. Banjac, I, unfortunately, am convinced that you three have agreed on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4671	Please, MP, I've been expecting, and I have to have this moment, with agreement, and let me tell you, here I have consulted, we're thinking exactly the same. You're, as a proponent of this agenda point, now, you shouldn't have lectured here, you hold it for your students, not for me, and here, sir, if you've stayed at the conclusion, say the following. Please, we suggest that this point is not discussed until we see the result of the vote that will be held at the 18th session and that I conclude the debate on this point and the matter is done and you see that we agree here. Don't call us 74, I beg you, but do it like that. You're so unprincipled. You once suggest a conclusion, now you're saying you're not suggesting it. What do you want, actually?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4672	Mr. Banjac, since I've listened to you, I assume as chairman, I would ask you, I insist on you and your colleagues from the College, not to take my students in word for this speaker, in this House the way you've done now. Don't teach me that I teach them moral lessons, you need to do this, and leave my students alone, especially from the point of view of giving a sermon on how they need moral lectures. Stick to the agenda, Mr. Banjac, this item of the agenda, we'll discuss it when it comes to it, and that's what we suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4673	Is that on behalf of the club, sir?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4674	You heard me, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4675	Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda point and we're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. You'll have your chance, sir. Ad.4. Proposal for a law on public documents in BiH, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I am opening a debate on this point, and I would like to ask the representative.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4676	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I will speak in the context of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't interrupt me and please don't be offensive. Gentlemen of the College, you have produced what we have now, that five hours, defacto, we know neither what we voted for nor what we're going to vote for, nor whether we're going to discuss something that we've already voted on and the last person in this tall house who can tell some MP how it should work is you, Mr. Chairman, and the other two are your deputies. If there was a moral category in your political action, you would have, because of the chaos that has already been caused, which we don't even know what we've adopted, and what we haven't, resigned, and instead of any sermons, I ask you to try to save at least a little dignity and continue to lead the session in a way... We're not looking to get this item off the agenda. You know neither what you have declared nor what you have not declared. You're taking off this point. We're giving you a break and a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4677	Sir, you insult me, I take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4678	Of course I'm insulting you. Of course it offends you...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4679	Who's answering for the fourth-point discussion? Does the Proposer of the Law have a desire to speak? Here you go. There were amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4680	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly, given the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH and the way the BiH Council of Ministers has functioned in the last 15 days, we have not had the opportunity to plead on the amendments that have arrived. Also, the mode of action does not allow the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers to be applied evenly to the ministry itself, so we have not officially taken a position on the amendment, so at this point the only thing I can say is that the BiH Council of Ministers remains on the proposal for a text already agreed, unanimously agreed and sent to the BiH Parliament for adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4681	Is anyone else answering for a discussion? While you are thinking about whether or not to discuss, let me inform you that amendments have arrived from MPs Desanka Rađević, Vita Rakić, to check only that all amendments here, Miodrag Deretić, Pere Skopljak, Ivo Divković, Ana Havel, Tarik Čaršimamović and Mirko Banjac. Since we have a situation in the Council of Ministers of BiH as we do, the Kolegijum suggests that the House declare its amendments or, if you have any other solution, please, suggest. Here, we have one hand.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4682	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the serious parliament must seriously define the situation in which it is. We don't have a proposal. We are not prepared to pass a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH to have a constitutional proposal. That's why I'm suggesting, so we don't get back into the barren party plantings, take this point off the agenda, until we get serious in front of the public and do it right. How can parliament now take the initiative of the BiH Council of Ministers? I ask you once to put things where they stand. We do not have the Council of Ministers of BiH, and we are unable to adopt the Law, to choose on the basis of the Constitution of the BiH Council of Ministers that will operate in accordance with the constitution. So I think the previous point was very important. This is where we got into the screwed-up situation. How is it possible, we have amendments, who will declare the amendments, on behalf of whom? I'm asking that the point be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4683	Thank you, Mrs Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4684	At its 32nd session, held on 14 December, the BiH Council of Ministers established the bill. So, we have here a Law submitted by an authorised promoter, given that the BiH Council of Ministers was legitimate on 14 December and could make decisions legitimately. Therefore, there is no reason for the law to be removed because there is an authorised promoter who, when submitting the Law to the congregation procedure, was empowered to do so and I am not in favour of taking it off the agenda. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the PSBiH House of Representatives did not prescribe a procedure for the proposing to declare amendments, so I do not see that this is an obstacle.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4685	I beg for silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4686	One unfinished job produces other problems, ladies and gentlemen. If we had done the job quite correctly, we could have done it in the law, whether it was the SDP, either in 5 days or 15, or the Law of Vita Rakić or the Law of the BiH Presidency, in order to disseminating it together, Mrs Havel, we would have really come to some ground to unblock this situation in the country. We will have at the 18th session a proposal to sign Mr. Skopljak with members of the BiH presidency, and Mr. Žigić, a request to join the Council of Europe. We really can't make a show out of this Parliament and this country and provide some interiors... in which there will be no government, or Council of Ministers of BiH. From that point of view, in principle any such remark could be correct. On the other hand, if the circle is now closed, today, in view of this bill that has passed all the procedure, I think we would block any kind of decision and that we could normally take a break in Parliament's work until the Constitutional Commission comes out with an explanation of the situation. I think the situation in parliament, at the PSBiH House, is not for Parliament's Secretariat at all. Parliament's Secretariat is an operational body, and can only react to the House and can react to the Constitutional Commission to unblock this situation. I think our college has given one good solution to get out of this blockade. In fact, if we were to plead as the House of Amendments, there are no obstacles. We either have to agree to start solving things, point-by-point, or at the moment stop working at the session, take a break, until the position of the BiH Council of Ministers is unblocked. In fact, it is impossible for the high representative to be interpreted, not to accept that we have passed SDP's law on the BiH Council of Ministers. If correct, we put that law in a higher degree of decision. It's not a draft anymore. It's a proposal. If that law entered that phase, if it were to be determined, and that would be determined within the hour, in five hours, in two days, it would be normal for that procedure to be completed. It is not logical that if anything is left in the procedure, according to OHR's decision, after the vote, a statement on any other proposal, let the procedure on the proposal of Ivo Divković and Sejfudin Tokić be completed. Therefore, we ourselves came into a position that was blocked. If this proposal fails in the procedure as a proposal, we will return normally and realize that we had one procedure on Mr. Rakić and his proposal, because Mr. Tokić was most consistent in the course of the action of this vote both for his own 77 proposal and for Mr. Rakić's proposal last time, and, above all, I think, as all MPs, that we should come to the law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and by way of one logic, that it is a good thing that the initiatives were both MPs and his personal and Mr. Rakić and each and Mrs. Havel, etc. I ask you to clarify on this example whether we will continue to work, or we will be in a position to return to the question raised in relation to the Electoral Law for each statement. We have put ourselves in a position that we cannot vote until we clarify what we have decided on point 2 concerning the BiH Council of Ministers. It was a tolerance debate. He wanted someone or didn't want to say who was wrong, who he was against, held back, it was a vote in Parliament. This vote in Parliament is undeniable now after today's debate. I have seen a correct approach and colleagues from different clubs of MPs, I do not know from which all parties, because it is not said whether it is a Party of the Democratic Progress and Development, or whether it is HDZ, but they have accepted the principle of conclusion of the session by the minutes, to establish what can be determined. If we don't, we put a bone in this House's throat and we can't move on. I'm asking you to respect the procedure. If the College proposes, at this point, that we go past this agenda, to skip point 4, draft election law, to go to a debate on travel documents, and that we have a question that opens up dilemmas about point 2, there is no way out for us. I think, in that context, there's really a confusion being made, because this point is going to take place and agree to accept the principle of the Kolegijum. What will happen at the next point, in which he appears as the promoter of someone else, and when the circle closes, not just around the Council of Ministers of BiH and around ourselves? I ask the College to make one consistent decision, should we continue the debate and conclude the debate on point 2, so that we can begin the debate on point 3. This is not the conclusion, it's not the record of the entire 16th session, it's the discussion of the unfinished point. All MPs have tolerated the position of the SDP and the discussion led by the team on the need to bring an end to the point. She can only be brought inside herself. It can't be delayed, so in some next session, talk about it, and in passing, do the jobs that are beyond these principles. I think it is a perfectly correct position at this point that we should end it, resolve point 2 and continue the debate on these issues in the spirit of the agreement reached by Parliament, because it is all in our hands anyway. There are no conditions to declare the entire proposal, so the BiH Council of Ministers in full composition only has a ministry. There are conditions to declare parliament, but the Council of Ministers of BiH has not been abolished and it should be known, but rather some provisions on the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I therefore ask that, at this point, however, the Constitutional, Legislative Commission make some recommendation to make a rational decision on the continuation of the work. There's no end here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4687	Sir, which other point are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4688	I'm talking about the 16th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4689	This is the 17th session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4690	Of course, but you haven't finished one job, and you've fallen into a trap that you've begun to decide in a way that you're proposing solutions that haven't cleared up the Constitutional and Legislative Commission. How to behave in this situation when we do not have an organ that must respond as a proposer to different changes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4691	The Rules of Procedure interpreter, sir, is the Kolegijum. Read the Interim Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4692	Please, I'll do it again. The law is, then, submitted by an authorised promoter. There's a time when the law came to this house and was released into procedure. There's an authorised promoter. We now have a situation when amendments have been tabled by MPs. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure has it been defined that the proposing must be made known about the amendments. I will remind you of our earlier parliamentary practice. I have a 1991 Rules of Procedure on the work of the 1991 BiH Assembly that was in force, it is our parliamentary practice. A Rules of Procedure on the work of the Federation of BiH Assembly, which says the proposal can be declared on amendments. There is no obligation on the proposal to declare amendments. Therefore, I think there is no interference, that it is not necessary for the Constitutional Commission to give its opinion, there is no interference that the law is not being discussed today at this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4693	Dear colleagues and co-workers, I would like here, as the Council of Ministers of BiH has been touched, the existence of the BiH Council of Ministers, to say the following. The BiH Constitutional Court's decision ended the post of BiH's chairman and vice-president of the BiH Council of Ministers. Under the Dayton Constitution, these are the mandates of the BiH Council of Ministers. They named the ministers. I'm asking a question and obviously from the previous discussion we see whether or not that organ exists, that's the question. If there are no mandaters, in my opinion there can be no Council of Ministers of BiH, as these ministers are appointed by the mandate. The parliament confirmed the BiH Council of Ministers in the composition. What's going on now? In my opinion, and by every legal logic, as far as we're concerned, I don't know, because I see things happening. If there is no mandate, then there is no Council of Ministers of BiH and there are no ministries. Such a legal situation cannot be treated only by the OHR spokesman’s statement. We have been brought into one situation that this country has no Council of Ministers by decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH and that there has been a vacuum, which is unforgivable and what Parliament was supposed to react to. We don't have the BiH Council of Ministers now. Of course, unless the OHR assumes the role of prime minister in this case and works with the ministries, under the pretext that the BiH government should exist. Any logic in terms of legal or purely sound logic, the BiH Council of Ministers, if the provision abolished the president and vice president, then, of course, there are no ministers or ministries, thus the BiH Council of Ministers ceased to exist. That, of course, shouldn't have been done, but it's a different story now. We are now in the vacuum, as regards the Council of 79 BiH ministers, it is not being met, it is not working, and as far as this concrete proposal is concerned, the proposal was made and delivered to the BiH Parliament when the BiH Council of Ministers was in the so-called. full composition. I don't know what full composition means. Either it's a composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, it can't be the crumbly composition of the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers exists the way Parliament has accepted it or does not exist. In this case, by constitutional decision, not any resignations, resignations are mentioned. Niko one resigned, but the BiH Constitutional Court ruled that the post of president and vice president would cease to be valid, and thus the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4694	Who's still answering for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4695	I've been quite precise. What we have heard now as an explanation from Mr Silajdžić, on the one hand, is acceptable, on the other hand it is unacceptable. Let me say why it's acceptable. It is acceptable if the BiH Parliament accepts his proposal and his request and his recommendation, as far as I understand it. If so, then there is no such thing as unacceptable, to focus today on building the BiH Parliament's relationship with the BiH Council of Ministers, because every other issue is third-rate. If that's it. If we continue to debate what the BiH Constitutional Court has done, what the High Representative has done, we will come into the situation that we will not be able to make a solid solution regarding parliament and I think Mr Silajdžić's intervention is quite accurate in this regard. We have come to a position where, in fact, I believe the same, the ministries cannot function without a suitable mandate. Mr. Dokić's proposals, Divković, Rakić and Tokić, as well as the BiH presidency's proposal, are based on having a mandate and various ministries, etc., we will discuss the structure. We are now in a situation that is interregnum in a country that simply accepts, on the one hand, this situation and lets it go further. There is no other body in BiH, except for the BiH Parliament that can make a decision today based on five proposals on the government, to build a Council of Ministers and I don't think there's much work for BiH. I Ašanin Kurtović the entire Council of Ministers of BiH, present our country in the Council of Europe, make some arrangements, because the world is looking for a government. The government or the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers in BiH is gone and cannot be or not be. We can only have a government or not. This is the fact that she's gone, it doesn't work. And I ask you that Parliament return to the key issue, that we adopt the law and create a normal procedure, that the BiH presidency can propose a mandater, that is to put in the process the choice of ministers and how it all goes until our session, well, that is now the time to sit down, to do a good job.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4696	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we here interpret some things as appropriate. However, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH is in force, except for some provisions, where the Constitutional Court of BiH has clearly annulled certain provisions. 80 The provisions make it clear there that ministers are in office until new ones are put in place. So the Law that was passed earlier also made sure that there was no legal void that no one would do their job. Therefore, what has been abolished has been abolished. Unfortunately, we find ourselves in a difficult situation that we shouldn't have come to, because we should have discussed this much earlier, much earlier to agree on certain decisions. Therefore, let us not now question the legitimacy of the work of this assembly because there is no Council of Ministers of BiH and because we cannot discuss their proposals. I think we can discuss this law and we can continue the debate on this law and plead amendments, whether or not we accept them and discuss them in the law package.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4697	We now have two replicas, Ambassador Silajdžić, MP Tokić, and MP Špirić discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4698	I will be very brief on Mr Rakić's presentation, I think the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH does not provide for the Council of Ministers to be without mandates, and for ministers and ministries to continue to work, it is clear to everyone and I now have one proposal, please. This is a very serious situation, created by a vacuum of thoughtless certain moves, and I respect the Constitutional Court Decision, I do not comment on it at all, as an MP, and I think it is correct and that it is the Council of Ministers of BiH, as it is, and that law, that they were unconstitutional. Now we're in one situation, because obviously we have different opinions. I think the Council of Ministers, by the end of that provision, the Council of Ministers ceases to exist because the provision is valid, that provision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. I have a proposal that the Constitutional Commission discuss this situation, which should have been done by now, because it is a serious situation. We can't say that one body without a head still exists. So, there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, because there is no part of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in this case the co-chairs and vice presidents, etc., that the Council of Ministers of BiH cannot make decisions, but those decisions made, those proposals submitted to the BiH Parliament, are, of course, valid. Today there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, at least by my logic and I mean by legal logic, but my proposal is for the Constitutional Commission to discuss this situation. I would like to ask that motion, Mr. Chairman, to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4699	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we're really not in a hurry anywhere, we've lasted 10 years and we're going to hold out this little time, but the agenda point is the Law on Public Corrections. We have the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was unanimously adopted, but we're not coming back, because the most severe part of me you're interrupting on things you don't have answers to, but I would really ask you that this series of colorful discussions, from who resigned, so he didn't resign, whether there was a Council of Ministers, has no Council of Ministers. We said our position a few months ago. At the same time, he has a series of discussions from the same ruling coalition, gentlemen of the Sloga and the CD Coalition, and he talks to himself. Chairman, save a little more of this dignity you've got. Try to be the chairman from this moment on, because obviously this has never worked out for you. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4700	Sir, I'm gonna have to take your word for it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4701	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to keep the session under way. No problem, you can take the word away from me. I'm really not going to be constructive as predecessors and like you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4702	I know you won't be, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4703	Ladies and gentlemen, I would personally prefer not to participate in this circus. But there seems to be no other possibility. It was clear that the moment Mr Silajdžić and Mr Svetozar Mihajlović were elected, in an unconstitutional way, that the Council did not exist. It slipped through for a year and a half, thanks to relations in BiH, and now a normal MP should ask what decisions have been made by that council that has been unconstitutionally elected? Does the BiH Constitutional Court have such an interpretation? Are all decisions made by the unconstitutionally elected Council of Ministers unconstitutional, legal and valid? It cannot be avoided objectively that the Council of Ministers does not exist. It is better that there is no such thing as it is, but I want to justify today our arrival in Sarajevo, the adopted diaries at a time when the people are starving, expecting this Parliament to make some progress and move, and it is not, that we simply do those points of the agenda that are not related to this problem. These agenda points are to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Energy Charter, etc., so, to give some hope to the international community that, if we are all against each other, at least we are not against still this far from Parliament...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4704	Please, MP, don't say that. Pick your words.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4705	I would like to say that we are the best parliament in the world, because I would be funny to both you and those watching us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4706	This isn't far from the world either.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4707	I ask you, therefore, to take off the agenda all the points where the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH does not exist. Here, I ask the question. Who will respond to the amendment on behalf of the Proposer. Well, we can't, uh, class, you know, on behalf of the law, class in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4708	You've said the same thing twice. If you're not, listen. Twice the same story.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4709	I'm begging you, if you're nervous, or something's wrong?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4710	It wasn't me, it was you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4711	Last time I suggested that only one item be removed, I now propose that all agenda points be removed where the Council of Ministers of BiH is proposed. It is indisputable that the BiH Council of Ministers at the time existed when it proposed. But there is no one who can give an answer to the MP on behalf of the promoter. We can run away from this, this is a big problem for BiH. We can outwit ourselves. BiH is not a happy country unless the law is passed voluntarily. We can also plant each other, which we do, it seems, is not a problem for this structure, but I would like, if the composition of this Parliament would not be like this. This is, Mr. Tokić said well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4712	You're counting here minutes in front of the BiH public, you're in no condition to agree. The CD Coalition and the Syllabic Coalition have mastered an unconstitutional solution. The people of BiH and the citizens must know. They've been cooking up BiH's accidents. When it came to voting on these proposals, I made my position clear. Ambassador, it's not in line with the point, please. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, it would be your turn to read the Interim Rules of Procedure, you who have not read. Mrs. Čolo, an MP in this house has said nicely. Find out where it says that the amendments must give their consent or not to the BiH Council of Ministers, just find out where it says so, and we will continue the discussion. You here, gentlemen, the key question is do you want us to pass the laws, or did you come here for political promotion? What's wrong with me is this time that we've spent on the wild debates, because we've spent on the amendments of the people who came here to make amendments. What do you want? I ask you, gentlemen, if somewhere it says it and injured, MP Tokić, thank you very much for the intervention, however, it goes... it goes as well as you do. So I didn't react when you spoke. Here, I'll take, here, with the consent of the Kolegijum, take my word to those who don't talk about this agenda point. What do we have here? 83
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4714	From now on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4715	I've taken it before. Here, and I took Mr. Špirić to you and what to do to you, to let you go, and you're giving a lecture here. Ambassador Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4716	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we are either hungry or in that people's, crazy confused. Today is February 29th, every fourth year, regardless of laughter, and all this has really lost every sense of seriousness and dignity. If we can't continue on some agenda, I haven't read the EPP anywhere in the agenda. I really suggest we stop this today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4717	I beg you, according to the point, here, this is a proposal, like breaking the point. He has the right to suggest what we can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4718	I'd like to ask the chairman and you to allow me the replica first, and then let me talk about this law. First, I have to say that I've never been more confused in these three years, as far as I'm concerned, as in today's session, but I wouldn't be talking about the reasons for that confusion right now. I'd like you out of the context of this agenda, to suggest something, and, if you can, to make a statement about it. We know that we do not have the chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given how we pass the law, the question arises when we adopt it. We have one, which is why my proposal, therefore, is an existing law, which has only been amended in that sense that was not under the BiH Constitution. My proposal is to ask the BiH Presidency, no later than 7 days, to propose to us the chairman of the Council of Ministers and to once break up with this legitimately-illegal, we can't work-can't work. I beg you, if I have the right to ask to vote on it, to vote on it. This isn't within this agenda point, but it's within the context of getting out of the confusion that we've imposed ourselves. In seven days, the BiH presidency's proposal, I think it's the way out. Do I have the right to request a vote? Are you going to do it right now or should I move on?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4719	We have a series of these suggestions. First, MP Silajdžić asked the Constitutional and Legal Commission to take a stand on the status of the BiH Council of Ministers and the way out of the BiH Council of Ministers crisis. The second proposal is yours and I think both proposals go according to the fact that they overcome the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4720	I insist on this proposal for a simple reason that, as a result, the BiH presidency will delay this situation forever. Each through something new wants to install something of their own, and these are some personal interests and some of the characters that are imagined. In this way, we would overcome this situation, and the Law on the Council will last, as things stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4721	Keep talking about the law, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4722	I, in connection with the Law on Public Sleeps in BiH, support the amendment submitted by MP Miodrag Deretić, who says, will read it. Article 2 should be complemented, so that it reads: “The public documents issued in BiH in its title contain the name BiH and the name of the entity. Public documents issued by BiH institutions contain only the name BiH". Of all the other amendments submitted by the RS, I give up, provided this one is accepted and that is the minimum under which I will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4723	Something he wanted the president of the Constitutional Commission, MP Kadić, to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4724	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the agenda is the point of the BiH Public Corrections Act, so I would like to say something about it. Since the Rules of Procedure on the work of the PSBiH House of Representatives does not explicitly state that the proposing must be made known on amendments. If in practice we had it as such, as usual practice, and since we do not have a promoter in full capacity now, we only have two choices, or continue this item on the agenda, vote on amendments, and all other things, or take off all the agenda points that are proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, that is the first thing. Secondly, I would like to make it clear to the College, to declare the College, and it seems to me that in a certain way he has declared himself to vote on amendments and on laws, and I support that, and in that respect, I would like to support the Law on Public Immitments, without amendments, therefore, the original proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH. As for the situation we've been in, I don't want to go back to the past, I'd just like to help the College propose the agenda for the next session. This means that the College should hold consultations during this session, to schedule the 18th session of the BiH House of Representatives, and it seems to me that the first item of the agenda should be the resolution of the situation, i.e. the adoption of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. We have several clarifications, interpretations, including the BiH presidency law, which the Constitutional Commission today had on the agenda, that's the first thing. In this context, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission is ready to offer, hold a special session and offer the PSBiH House of Representatives assistance ahead of 18. 85 sessions, on how to resolve this issue, with a small comment on what MP Silajdžić said, I am not sure that the Constitutional and Legal Commission can give an interpretation and that it can be included in the assessment of the interpretation of the Constitutional Court Decision, whether or not there is a Council of Ministers, etc., it may be a little too large a bite for the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs. But in any case, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs may have a session on the agenda, will also have a statement on the vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, will have a decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH, will have a proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, tabled by the BiH Presidency and will offer a possible solution ahead of the 18th session of the BiH Parliament on the situation. It's about one situation. There's one more thing I want to say. In the draft agenda of the 18th session, which I believe the College must withdraw from the procedure as it is, because we have simply other priorities. Point 1 must compare the adoption of the BiH Council of Ministers Act. It's a bit of a complex question, but we need to get out of this situation. Under 2. must be the adoption of the budget of the institutions, i.e. the budget of BiH, and then the other points as proposed in the 18th session proposal. Let me get this straight. I'm in favour of the Law on Public Corrections. The 18th session must be dedicated to the BiH Council of Ministers issue, as an urgent, crucial issue at the moment. I am not very inclined to Mr. Rakić's proposal that the proposal by the prime minister in the unexplained situation of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, we resolve, in a certain way, we are going over this problem. The Constitutional Commission is ready to consider the whole issue and offer its own views that will be helpful ahead of the 18th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4725	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I didn't mean what I'm about to say, today, at least not at this point in the agenda, but I was initiated by Mr. Chairman's proposal to plead, in connection with the situation concerning the Council of Ministers of BiH and those positions of the general government at the moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4726	That's Mr Silajdžić's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4727	Okay, well, Mr. Silajdžić and some others have suggested it, but it's a fact, and we need to be clear about it, and she kind of initiated me on it. Here is a crucial question, how will we function until we pass the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and until it is appointed as the new Council of Ministers, in the way the law regulates the matter, how it will regulate it. We have one period in which to define how to behave. The responsibility for this is borne by the whole state and by the one who proposes the BiH Council of Ministers, which is the BiH presidency. We must get from those responsible, in general, for this state in a way a proposal to overcome this 86 situation until it is legally regulated, that is, until a law on the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers is passed in accordance with that law. Whether the BiH presidency, meanwhile, as a transitional solution, will take over part of these powers, part of the Council of Ministers' ingenuities, etc., whether it is constitutional or not and whether it will propose another solution, that is, I would say, the BiH presidency and the evaluation of constitutional experts and legal experts will overcome it. I think this home would have to have a solution to the situation in this inter-periode that we are now in, and my proposal is to ask the responsible ones exactly, to say, a solution, a solution to this period, until a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH is passed and appointed by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Constitution and that law that must be based on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4728	We have the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and that is what I propose, that the Constitutional Commission consults the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. No, Mr. Kadić, that you are discussing the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH is not being discussed, but rather the application of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which provides for some of these situations. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers and BiH ministries provides for the Council of Ministers to resign if, for any reason, both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly vote for mistrust. After the vote of no confidence, the current Council of Ministers continues to carry out regular tasks and tasks, until the new Council of Ministers takes office, for example, is one basis for making a decision. Secondly, in Article 11, if both co-chairs resign, and in this case their functions have been filed, that is, the other members of the BiH Council of Ministers and deputy ministers will resign. The presidency will appoint a new co-chair who will take office after they are approved by the PSBiH House of Representatives. Until the new Council of Ministers assumes its duties, the current council will continue to carry out its duties as a transitional function, with the co-chair of the Chair in accordance with Article 4 of this Act. We have the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and what I have suggested is that the Constitutional Commission of our Parliament, therefore we exist, to consult this law and these provisions and to determine ourselves accordingly. A moment ago, Mr. Tokić said something about resignation, etc. I would only beg, in a few seconds, this is important to say, I intend to seek exposure, but in this case, to say this, none of us resigned, because it was not necessary. The Constitutional Court has declared us nonexistent, or invalid. That's one thing and the other, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not talking about other colleagues, as far as I'm concerned, I said I wouldn't participate in a new Council of Ministers that would be based on the same principles, which led to us being declared unconstitutional. I do not want to participate in an unconstitutional Council of Ministers anymore and in a situation that will not help resolve what needs to be resolved, but will give much more than the same, which does not benefit BiH citizens, and this parliament is here to address the situation. To me, Dejton is quite clear, there is a prime minister who appoints ministers, and the PSBiH House of Representatives confirms them, that's what Dejton says. Everything else, in my opinion, is excess, and that's why we're getting into the situation we're in. In my opinion, the Council of Ministers Act provides for these situations and the Constitutional Commission of our Parliament, which also confirms the Council of Ministers of BiH and which the Council of Ministers of BiH is responding to. We do not answer to the BiH presidency, we answer to the BiH Parliament, the Constitution says. We are submitting a report to the BiH Parliament and therefore it is necessary for the 87 Constitutional Commission to consult the existing Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, those provisions that have not been abolished and to make a proposal to resolve this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4729	I thank MP Silajdžić, who, by reading the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers, made it clear that the Constitutional Commission will do absolutely nothing. It's all clean as a tear, if he wants to think straight and understand. The Constitutional Court has spoken and set a deadline. At that time, then the Council of Ministers functioned, after that deadline, it does not exist, it is absolutely. We can interpret it one way or another. Only the question arises, which is why, even the question and responsibilities, which is why the one who was obliged to resolve the situation, which is only the BiH Presidency, and by no means the Constitutional Commission, has so far not responded. That is why, and I think it is entirely on the background of what counterpart Divković has suggested, we should ask that the BiH Presidency propose the chairman, that the 18th session of the Assembly, the BiH Assembly's Representative Council, should not begin without the proposal. It is a matter of chairing whether it will retain the existing BiH Council of Ministers or will completely change it. Waiting for a new law on the Council of Ministers, we will have this stalemate position for at least another month. Under optimal conditions, given the relations we have created here, to go quite differently, the adoption procedure and the importance of the new Council of Ministers law will take at least a month, and in that month, we will miss a lot of things. I insist on my proposal to ask the BiH presidency to propose the chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4730	Dear MPs, we are on the agenda of the Law on Public Corrections. I really thank everyone, and especially Mr Silajdžić for coming out here three times and talking about the BiH Council of Ministers that works or doesn't work, it works like it doesn't work, I really don't know what to say anymore, but I really don't think the chairman should be allowed to talk about the BiH Council of Ministers under this point of the agenda anymore, because it is the Law on Public Corrections. Mrs. Almo Čolo said very well, regarding this law, I suggest we decide on this law, look at all those amendments that have been given and that we decide on them. So, to decide on a point on the agenda, not the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4731	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4732	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen MPs, we've heard a lot of words here that have nothing to do with the Law on Travel Documents that's on the agenda. It is evident from all this, not entering a re-debate on whether 88 is a Council of Ministers of BiH that exists constitutionally or does not exist, politically exists or does not exist. It is perfectly clear to all of us that it has long since existed, if ever, but it is not the topic of the agenda. I would ask, Mr. Banjac, you, as the man who, before this debate came to us, which was only about the agenda and the agenda at all, to realize that what we have now, that you have agreed, that you planned to go, we ask you to change the plan and now we agree again. We, as the SDP MPs' Club, are looking for a 15-minute break to determine ourselves, it takes us 15 minutes to figure out how to move forward, and I'm using the opportunity to invite you, as a college, to renegotiate on how to proceed together, to guide us the way you've led us so far, or to determine ourselves. If you need a bigger break, we're ready, too. I also draw attention to the fact that the SDP Club is ready to work as long as it should, to continue whenever it takes and to come up with much more important topics than these.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4733	Break till 4:00. We'll continue at exactly 4:00 for lunch. Gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] I suggest that a representative of the SDP Club take his word and inform us of the content of what he considers important after the break. Were you in agreement, or were we in harmony? We are continuing the debate on the proposal for a law on public documents for BiH. Anyone else want to discuss the law? It doesn't mean anybody. Please, there's no one here about the law, and we're not gonna let you do this. We have 7-8 amendments here. Since business, and the Kolegijum is unanimous, remember this unanimously, that we can discuss amendments and decide as Home, whether we accept or not. I'll go first and ask the MPs if they're giving up anyone, God Bog, of the amendment? Mrs. Rađević, are you staying from the amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4734	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4735	So let's get you started on the vote. Ambassador Vito Rakić, you are, giving up. poslanik Deretić, has not given up the amendment, the MP has no presence, but has informed me that he must leave because of urgency, but has informed me not to give up the amendment. So he's not giving up. Mr. Crescent. Pero Skopljak requests that the amendment be considered. Representative Divković, to be considered. Mrs. Havel, stay. poslanik čaršimamoviti, he's gone, I don't know, he didn't let me know. Maybe the man comes, we'll ask him. I'm giving up the amendment, since my amendment is already contained in some amendments and we're not making it any more complicated. We will plead on 89 amendments, so let's go in turn, leaving the amendment to Mrs. Rađević at the end. Mrs. Havel says it like this. The article is first amended and reads: "This law regulates the issue of the importance of public documents in BiH". Ana wants to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4736	Honored MPs, I have made this amendment only to clarify in the name and in Article 1 of this law what it is. In this regard, Article 2 states: “This law regulates the public documents of BiH”. I guess that's not what public documents are all about, it's about the validity of public documents. Not a matter of importance, but a question of the validity of public documents, a purely technical correction. I won't be angry if you don't adopt her, and I think you should.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4737	This is an improvement in the text. There shouldn't be a problem. How many are there? - 29 Who's in? - 27 Against - There are no 2 abstentions of the entitetski vote. We have to hold the vote until the end. From the RS, who's in? – 10 From the Federation of BiH for – 17 The results of the vote are as follows: Of the 29 MPs present in the hall, 27 votes for, 2 abstentions. By entities. From RS 10, from the Federation of BiH 17 - Amendment accepted. Ambassador Divković's amendment. Is Ambassador Divković willing to give, or is it just enough for me to read?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4738	We have the Law on Public Corrections. In Article 3, it states "public documents which are after 6 April 1992 and until the entry into force of this law" etc. and that text goes on, and on Article 4, under public law within the meaning of Article 3 of this Act. Nowhere is said, in fact, what is a public document. The public document, under this law, should stand for me, not for the purpose of Article 3, that is, that is, the essence, of what I wanted. Text improvement, practically. Thank you. How many are there? - 29. Who's in favor of this amendment? Not when it's a voting process.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4740	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4741	Ambassador Divković, are you giving up? 90
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4742	- Talk from the scene. I accept this argument, only now is the question of the name of the law. Okay, I'm out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4743	He gave up. Mr. Skopljak, do you want an explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4744	So read it, and if it's not clear, then I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4745	A provision reads in BiH's Public Corrections Act, a colleague of Skopljak did not specify which member it refers to. All valid documentation shall be valid until the date until it has been issued. At the expiry of the specified value, it is worth accessing the production of new documentation. Can someone, here, Alma?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4746	The MP here says "all valid documentation". For example. Take the testimony issued by the RS, the testimony is a permanent document and it cannot be done that it is valid until a certain date, that it should be accessed to issue a new testimony. So I think it would be appropriate for this amendment to be withdrawn. Testimonials, diplomas, these are I.D.s, which are of a lasting character, do not have a limited duration of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4747	My colleague Skopljak is giving up the amendment. poslanik Deretić. Public documents issued in BiH, contain the name BiH and the name of the entity in its title. Public documents issued by BiH institutions contain only the name BiH. Any questions? There isn't. How many are there? - 29 Who's in? - 15 Who's against it? - 14 per entity we vote. RS, who's in? – 10 From the Federation of BiH – 5 The results of the vote are: for 15 – against 14, of course from 29, per entity, from RS for 10, from the Federation of BiH for 5. The amendment didn't get the necessary entity majority, it's going to the alignment. Desanka Rađević, to vote. In Article 7, delete the words "and trust from BiH's competent institutions". You want to explain? No, I don't. Please, present - 29. Who's in? - 10 Who's against it? - 17 91 2 abstentions will be held until the end. There is no need, because there is no majority from the Federation of BiH, but we will still spend so that there will be no later. I agree. The amendment was not accepted. There are no more amendments. čaršimamoviti. That's on Article 2. Public documents issued in BiH, in its head, contain a minimum name for BiH. We have to vote. 29 are present. Who's in? 3 Whoever is against—17 9 abstained from the vote, the amandman was not accepted. Since we have a situation that a single amendment has been accepted, which is fine, and one is going to agree. We can't vote on the final text, it'll go to the next session, because it's going to be agreed, depending on this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4748	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say the following about this law. If there is really no mood in this House for a public ID, a BiH citizen, to contain the name of BiH, as a state and entity from which a person or entity requires public correction, then I am afraid that we are not on a good path here to get to the law at all. All who are disturbed by the entity's name, so RS and the Federation of BiH, are not well on the path of building BiH, for the benefit of peoples and citizens. Today, the fate of the Law is pretty clear at the next session. I assure you that a public ID will not pass, for the citizens of RS, if it does not stand the name of the BiH state and entity as its component. It's a minimum under which a normal man can't go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4749	Although, probably, everyone expects this to be a replica of Mr Špirić's exposure, I will refrain from it, because I think it would be counterproductive. However, I would like to ask the chairman of this House if, after we have received an interpretation of him who interprets the Constitution and legal regulations in BiH at the end, which is OHR, whether he believes that the way to lead and conclude, or count votes, for the sake of this vote, was in line with the legal opinion of the OHR. Namely, if the legal opinion of the OHR says that the abstentions during the vote do not count as those who voted, you, Mr. Banjac, check in the stenogram, you said during the first vote that 27 people voted in favour of the law and two were abstentions. This could lead to confusion, and it would be good to standardise in a certain way the voter's statement on the basis of the OHR's legal opinion, because it is very important and can cause very large disputes in this home, so I just want to draw attention to this, because maybe we haven't yet entered into the voting and conclusion form according to this new interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4750	Now, as chairman, let me tell you. I have to say and restrained, because they enter the quorum, so you know. We discussed it a lot when you left, here, and Halid agrees with it, they enter the quorum, but they don't count as if they voted. 92 They abstained from voting, but made the quorum their presence, neither for nor for, and passed their rights on to those who vote, and so it is a clear interpretation, as far as it is concerned. There were 29 here, quorum. The vote showed two abstentions. 27 is watched, whether it has a majority or not, of 27.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4751	I would ask Mr Špirić, in the name of those books he read, for which he boasted at a session, to avoid in his speeches the epithets with which he whales and us messengers of the type that this is a laziness, that the normal world will not accept what he thinks, therefore, everything he has read to apply in his dictionary.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4752	I would like to invite Mr. MP to all the books from Dejton and so on, in which RS writes, to make it clear and try to say that she lives in it as in me, BiH, and then we will be on the same level as BiH's construction. It's a free interference, read by Nikola Špirić a lot of books, but I don't need to prove it to you, but you at least let me know that you read the BiH thing in the air. Don't, I'm telling you, don't, in the interest of BiH. You can replicate with me as much as you want. Nikola Špirić was in this town, so he went to Drvar where he was born, until you declared him a historic Croatian town, and before the war he had 99% Srbin, so he came to Banja Luka. Today, there is no question of whether Nikola Špirić has any, whether he has anything in this town. I'd like you to talk about it. We'll have to talk about everything in BiH. That's why I'm angry. I'm saddened, I'm saddened, because I know that people are hungry, that we're washing their brains with some policy we'd like to go back to, there's nothing to it. Nikola Špirić will not allow you to keep a gram of the property he acquired here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4753	It's not a subject of replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4754	Please, I'll just take a moment, I'd like to replicate to Mr. Nikola Špirić, not to get the wrong picture, if the MPs didn't want to accept the amendment that stands next to the name BiH should be the name of the entity. I will present my commitment to you why I would not accept such an amendment. This is the Law on Public Corrections of BiH. The documents issued in entities shall be issued by entity regulations. According to entity regulations, there is an obligation to stand in each public correction the name of the entity. So I think this question is too high to be governed by state law. Any public instrument issued in an entity shall be issued under the regulations of that entity and, of course, the obligation of the state authority, which issues that correction, in its heading, shall be the name of the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4755	We've finished the vote, as far as it's concerned. I'm closing item four of the agenda and we're going to point five. Ad.5. The draft law on the Treasury of BiH institutions opens the debate. I ask the President of the Constitutional Commission to say just a brief Commission position so let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4756	The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission has discussed the Law on the Treasury of the BiH Institutions and has not adopted a majority position after a lot of controversy as to whether there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law or not. Namely, three members of the Constitutional Commission felt that there was a need and a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, and three members of the Commission set out their position on the existence of a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. The Constitutional Commission has declared itself that this time is a statement so that there is no need for most of us from the Constitutional Commission session on the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, it does not mean anything from the point of view of the possible commitment of the PSBiH House of Representatives regarding the adoption of this law and the PSBiH House of Representatives may continue to debate and possibly declare, or adopt this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4757	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4758	Ladies and gentlemen, at the last session, I made a point like, I'm not going to talk about the essence of the law, because I was a member of the working group, when it comes to the essence, I'm going to talk about this law. I would like to say that last time I said that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law was not the subject of the BiH Council of Ministers' debate, so, as you MPs thought that no information had been verified, I tried to reach the date of the meeting in the service of the BiH Council of Ministers, and unfortunately I came up with the information that this was only confirmed by the BiH Council of Ministers protocol, by only one member of the commission's working group. It is not a good way of working, and it cannot be used for parliamentary debate, not only was there not a debate in the BiH Council of Ministers, but someone served something that does not look like parliamentary work. That is why I think, even after this presentation by the Constitutional Commission, that the BiH Council of Ministers must take a stand on the constitutional basis for this law. When it comes to content of essence, I do not dispute the need, that it can be debated, that amendments to the law are given, but I want it to be a clear starting position. This seal protocol was just used. Let me be told the date of the meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers when there was a talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4759	Who's on the phone? Mr. Kurtović has an explanation, as minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4760	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I tried to give some explanations last time. This is not a law that is not in the exclusive jurisdiction of any ministry, since it covers the issue of at least two existing ministries, it is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the second is the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. This was the reason why the BiH Council of Ministers appointed a working group, which was not exclusively under the membership of one ministry, but from two ministries, consisted of representatives from entities, truths, people who as experts deal with the issue and the problem. I think it doesn't even matter, it doesn't even matter if the BiH Council of Ministers officially took a position at the BiH Council of Ministers' meeting on the constitutional and legal reasoning of this law. It was given afterwards. I wouldn't agree, though, Mr. Špirić, if only one man had done it, I know that only one was not present, it was you, and the others were familiar. The legal service, which is trying and should be a legal institution, to give legal reasons for any sublegal and legal act discussed by the Council of Ministers, gave a positive opinion on this argument and was one of the participants in the creation of this preamble, i.e., the reasoning of the Treasury Act. I would once again ask the Members of Parliament to consider this law, since it is very, very important BiH, for its further work and action. It would not be good if, because of the legal basis, the preamble to this law, we came to the situation as it was last time. By the way, since last time it was also said that the BiH Council of Ministers did not adopt unanimously, I checked, the Treasury Act was unanimously adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers. So there weren't any separate opinions. Did some of the deputies have certain opinions and opinions, it is now a matter more, not to say, privacy, because in the voting process, at least the previous Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH has made it clear who can vote, how, how and when. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4761	We have a draft law here, and I want to make some points about a law that could be discussed when setting out a proposal, which will discuss these raised issues as well. The SDP MPs' club believes there is a need to pass this law. We were convinced of this need when we discussed the report on the implementation of the budget in nine months, or for one period last year, which we had at the previous session. To remind you, it is our obligation and according to the Madrid Declaration, and we have installed this obligation in the work programme. Now, since the debate is about the Draft, I'm going to make some suggestions like this, it's a little awkward for a pay phone to discuss, but I think things are important that should be agreed or clarified when setting the proposal, so, I'm sorry, I still have to go by the members. I think that Article 1 establishing the Treasury, this definition, when speaking what the definition of the Budget is, would have to be specified that it is the Budget of the BiH institution, because we are a country that has a specific budget, not a budget like the other 95 countries, but a budget that is defined by the Constitution and in a specific way is called, and in these definitions it would have to be treated as well. Secondly, Article 2 should clarify the second indent, under point 2 of point (a) because it is unclear what it wants to be said. I tried to make it clear to myself, so I came about that it was this, if it wasn't some proposing and this formulation of me, but I think it should stand out that the Treasury is responsible for the coordination in preparation and execution of the Budget of BiH, with the finance ministries of the Federation of BiH and RS, in order to determine the level of obligations towards this Budget, the dynamics of their execution, and that the Treasury is timely informed of possible difficulties in achieving entity income. I'm trying to do what's written here to make it more clear because, right to tell you, I don't know what this would do, if the vault were to be informed in the event of potential delays in the collection of income. In point 3, I think it should be included, here where it is said that the Treasury is responsible for issuing an act to users in the preparation of the annual budget, that the data should include that the vault is responsible for delivering data on the implementation of the expenditure of each user for the current year. Since the Treasury will run the finances, as I say, the financial part of the budget implementation problem, then each user should also get the information that is available at a certain point in time for the execution of that part of the budget. Article 3 provides for the opening of an additional account. However, this opening of an additional Treasury account has not been specified in which cases, so the over-opening of additional accounts may call into question the existence of a single account. Therefore, I think Article 3 should specify in which cases, or in which circumstances, additional accounts may be opened. Personally, I think they should only be opened in that case where those who run the vault, or who use the funds, are not in a position to co-ordinate their daily work and their finances with the Trezor. Otherwise, the question arises why do we need the Treasury if there will be special accounts, if not all business goes through a single account. Therefore, additional accounts are allowed to be opened in such cases and these circumstances should be stated in the Law itself in order not to leave it arbitraryly, when it occurs to anyone to open an additional account. In Article 4, when it comes to relations with business banks, I suggest that interest be included in the contract between the Treasury and the business bank, not just what the Treasury will pay to banks for their services. The vault will hold funds at the banks, and it needs to collect interest, so it should be part of the contract. In Article 5, point 1 states that the Treasury is responsible for the financial assets of the budget user. I think that the Treasury is responsible, that it should be responsible for the money as a whole, and not just for the user, means for the budget's money as a whole and for each user individually. By the way, this is how the vault is reduced only to what is foreseen by the Budget, or on the bulky side of the Budget, it is intended to be with each user. It should also be adapted to the point 4 of this article. Article 6 discusses the implementation of the Budget approved by Parliament. However, in the contents of that article, the accent was mostly placed, i.e. in full, not mostly, on the expenditure side. The budget consists of an income and expenditure of 96 pages. A vault that runs a single budget account of the Budget. The budget would have to be responsible for both income and expenditure. This is a little bit to me, so to speak, and profoundly. Since under the execution of the Budget, we also mean the execution of the budget and the execution of the budget's expenditure. So this is where the Treasury's mission would have to be that side of the budget charge, not just spending. Now there's no, not according to this Treasury Act at all, I don't see who's in charge, whose function is the payment of income. I suppose that should be in the post of the Treasury, meaning also the collection of revenue and expenditures of the Budget and finally Article 7. Article 7. I personally don't think it's a good solution, in Article 15. I'm sorry, my number seven is here, we've been sitting here for a long time, so I'm getting a little tired, so I'm probably not following it well. In Article 15, it is not a good solution to the rotation at the head of the Treasury. I personally don't think that's a good solution, because that's, how do I say, a professional duty, a job that needs to be done professionally, not every eight months, changing people who run the Trezor. I don't want to question this, so I don't get it wrong, the equality of all peoples. This equality can be achieved in another way. We can, in all these institutions that Parliament or anyone else is setting, such as any other BiH authority, set up such as the revision, such as the Border Service and others, to achieve adequate national representation, and not to change every 8 months on jobs that are professions. This should be a professional job, there should be exchangeability after one term of office, means that it is not always from the same nationality of persons, but it is not acceptable for me to make changes every 8 months in such a professional place in doing the job. I think you understand that I have no intention of disputing national equality, but that it is achieved in another way, to allow people to do their job professionally. I think that'll be all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4762	What I was saying earlier was as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I will now speak as an MP, the president of the Liberal Party of BiH, who is a full member of the European Liberals, and I stress this because full membership in the European Association of Liberal and Liberal Democratic Parties implies that we fight at all levels for the principles and standardisation of the European, or democratic way of managing the state, and one of these principles here is the establishment of the Treasury at all levels in BiH. This is a new institution in the legal, or financial system of BiH, and as any new institution, it is in the beginning causing certain suspicions. As a member of the constitutional committee, chairing the Constitutional Commission, I stood at the view that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and it is contained in the reasoning of the BiH Council of Ministers. The direct constitutional basis exists in Article 3, point 1.e) of the BiH Constitution, and I would say an indirect constitutional basis exists in the need to regulate the issue of the Treasury and for all those laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and those it will eventually adopt, and I see the establishment of the Treasury as an answer to the BiH Parliament for the introduction of a fully transparent form of control, financing, i.e. the drowning of public funds of BiH institutions. 97 We have defined ourselves, when the programme of work of the BiH Parliament was adopted months ago, that we would adopt the Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. Whether by delaying or by slowing down the adoption of this law we go to that interpretation that we had three months ago when we adopted the Work Programme, let it pass whatever it wants, we will stop at individual things. There is a commitment from the Madrid Declaration for the adoption of the Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, I think we should respect it. The adoption of this law is one of the conditions for BiH's entry into the WEE, for which we have all, without exception, determined to go towards full membership. As one of the arguments, this may not even be necessary to regulate the law, it is stated that this is already done in a certain way within the framework of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. I'm not quite sure that this is done in the best way possible, as is now done in the framework of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, but, if it is already done, why should it not be governed by a special law, especially because in this law, I deliberately mention this, insists on the Office of the High Representative. This kind of financial business already exists in the Federation of BiH, under the suggestions of international financial institutions, I don't know about RS, and I think it is necessary to adopt and that, as far as I'm concerned, there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, because this way will fully establish a system of financing of BiH institutions. Please, I mention, this is the Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, and if so far it has been controversial for some of the MPs to pass laws on the BiH Treasury, e.g. From now on, when the Law on the Treasury of BiH is passed, we have so many disputes about the need to pass such a law. I strongly support, as an MP at the PSBiH House of Representatives, the Law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions is being passed. I am not a financial expert to go into details and I am convinced that the Commission of the PSBiH House of Representatives, and finally Mrs Muminagić, who spoke before me, and perhaps other MPs, will contribute to improving the text of this draft law, and I am convinced that after some initial misunderstandings, which Mr Špirić made regarding the Commission's position on the preparation of this law and the subsequent position of the Council of Ministers, we will still have at least two positions. First, that we will agree that we need this law and that we need to bring it to others that we will agree on the very character, i.e. the essence and content of this law. In that sense, I would like to encourage all of us together to move towards this kind of financial business, because by adopting this law, we will best respond to possible accusations and possible accusations in terms of the non-transparency of the Budget, and then beyond that, the story of corruption at different levels follows. The vault and the establishment of the Treasury is a fundamental state instrument that can deprive all of us of any responsibility for what can come in the financial business of BiH institutions, once again I strongly support it, and I hope that we will get a proposal that will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4763	Ladies and gentlemen, work on draft law on BiH institutions is taking a long time. I mean, the nelado lasts long, and it worked very effectively within the task force I was a member of. I don't dispute the need to make the law. There is a difference between the need to make and the 98 constitutional basis. Had it been so easy to find a constitutional basis, he would have probably been found at the beginning and would have been in the preamble of the first proposal and other proposals. Therefore, it is not a simple problem to seek constitutional ground, as the Administrative Commission has shown and the way it has tried to reach it, and that it needs a law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, it is more than clear. Now I'm going to tell you how we worked at the Commission. We have come up with a proposal, or draft law on BiH institutions, here it is in the working group. My proposal was, when we all agreed, with the help of OHR and US Treasury representatives, to sign on each side, members of the task force. This was done in November of '99, so that from the office of the gentleman, I apologize, Minister Kurtović was told it must be then, at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers in seven days. There's a huge need, we're not going to get the funds, Bog knows what's not told, and come on, you realize the task force is working and then I end up, after two months of a break, when we agree, here's this document, and I'm going to level that document with this, so you'll see where the derogations are, I get a letter from the president of the task force appointed as part of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, where the call for a working group meeting says. After the job has been completed, agreed positions, say, we ask you to attend the meeting of the Working Group for the establishment of the BiH Treasury, which will take place in 13th of December1999, and here we are tomorrow, if Bog will, in March, at 10pm in the BiH Presidency building, Mr. Rečica's office. In addition, we provide you with a work version of the draft law on BiH institutions, which was done by Antun Rill, part for the budget, Zakira Muratović, part of the service of external debt, and according to international standards, formed by Ene Švarc and Laura Trimbl. You need to present and explain all your written remarks at the above mentioned meeting. If you do not submit your comments, we will consider you to be in agreement. I only got this material. I didn't get the law, which, for God's sake, was in line with the task force, to get that bill at Parliament's session. Now I'm going to tell you what I think about the bill and where the deviations are and I don't think that's good and it's not a good way to do it. First, this is, I guess, a general debate about the draft, so it'll be time for the amendment to intervene. The difference between the existence and the absence of a constitutional basis and the need to reach this law. Once we have to get into a situation and say there's no possibility in the Constitution, whether it's caraded or not, but there's a need, I am for that kind of variant. But we can't unless there's a constitutional basis to talk about, and look for it in some extensive formulations that can fit anything and everything. I'm against that principle. I propose that Article 1, paragraph 2, paragraph 4, says "the vault's single account represents all accounts open to one or more business banks, with which transactions are carried out, holding the budget and budget user's funds". I suggest adding a sentence that reads: "The opening of the Treasury account in the business banks will take place on the basis of the agreement of the budget user and the Treasury". In Article 3, under f., delete the word “system”, rather than “lead accounting operations of BiH institutions”, rather than “lead an accounting operations system”. Under h. "The management of BiH's long institutions", instead of "BiH". Under regulations and internal surveillance. I guess I'm doing an internal audit and an evaluation. It's essentially about that. So it's just professional formulations. 99 Preparations of Budget. That's page 4. The vault is responsible for preparing the BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH, in the following text, which will show how much income, and be careful, add the words "and other revenues". We held a debate within the Commission on what other incomes were. If the original incomes in the Constitution are strictly defined, the words "and other revenues" are deleted, it plans to collect and in what way, as well as details of how much will be spent and how the funds will be allocated between them, the budget user here says, and I propose a sentence from the institutions of BiH and other users of the budget, in the further text of the budget user. Article 2a) says "co-ordination with finance ministries", I propose "co-operation with the Federation of BiH and RS finance ministries, in the text below", so that they are, here, familiar with the expected expenditures and requirements of the Budget. To add consciously expected and expendable budget requirements. C. Preparation of economic analysis of budget development. It's not an analysis. It's a budget frame. The Budget Framework is very important for a country. Analysis can be like this and it can be like that, but the frame can't be pierced. 4. The text reads: “The vault is responsible for reviewing the estimated revenues and requests for the allocation of the resources of the users for preparation,” says here “the design of Budžet, “the proposal of the annual budget”, not drafts, but proposals. The vault's unique account. This is Article 3. In accordance with this law, a single account of the Treasury is set up, in the following text a single account is now going, and I propose that this part of the sentence be deleted “all the revenues of the Budget user will be covered in the single account” and that a new sentence be added “all the funds of the BiH institution will be covered by the single account of the Treasury”. This includes budget funds and user incomes and all donations made domestic and foreign. Cash may be used from a single vault account only if, in accordance with the budget, the approval is granted in accordance with other legal provisions. I suggest adding a sentence: “all payments and payments will be made to the single account in terms of the execution of the Budget”. Article 3, Article 5. The vault can place any outflow of funds from a single jury account that is not necessary for the execution of the Budget. The expenditure is carried out through the Central Bank of BiH, etc. I suggest that this article reads: "The Treasury, with the consent of the Council of Ministers of BiH, can place any amount of funds from a single account that is not needed for the execution of the Budget, in order to increase the budget." The total amount of funds remains a sentence until the end of the sentence. Relations with business banks I propose that they be kicked out of the law, because they are still in effect the unequal Arshina of payment traffic, etc., and the question is when will this be handled in the way it is written? Controlling payments and payments, therefore, not to bother you now, I suggest that there are also amendments that are much different from what the task force has done. 100 Foreign Debt. The BiH debt management chapter stands for managing the disputed debt. What is important in Article 13, Section 3, says under 2. "The vault is responsible for implementing Chapter 6. Foreign debt and reserve measures prescribed by the same law. I propose that it reads: "The vault is responsible for conducting the procedure and negotiating this debt to BiH, in accordance with the Foreign Debt Act of BiH". We have this legal project. New borrowing must be deleted because it is not prescribed by any legal project. We said there's no new borrowing in this sense, and that chapter was inserted, I don't know who to deal with. Article 15. Director and Deputy Director of the Treasury, I suggest that it reads: “in accordance with this law, the work of the Treasury is managed by the manager of the Treasury and two deputies”. It says here, in accordance with this law, the work of the Treasury is handled by the manager of the Treasury. The manager of the vault has two deputy directors. It's not the same. It's not the same if it's said that the manager and two deputies are in charge, and that the warden has two deputies. Under 2. The upravnik of the trezor and two deputies appointed the BiH Council of Ministers for a four-year period. They rotate at their posts every 8 months and must not be of the order of the same constituent people. I suggest that the sentence continue: “And for their work they are responsible for the Council of Ministers of BiH. The vault shall make all decisions by consensus’. And finally, the transitional provisions, I think that the transitional period is going on until the single accounts are established, they become fully operational and I think that this deadline since 31.3.2000 has already been exceeded and that it can go to 30.6. and what is particularly important for the Treasury is the location of the Treasury. There are three possibilities. Since the foreign debt component and the Budget are combined, to be in one of the two ministries, foreign trade or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or to be singled out as a special institution or as a... finance ministry. There are various political gymnastics. It remains in parliament to plead, and all of this will become amendments and I will accept, of course, that we are pleading on the law, if it is said there is a need, and there is no constitutional basis, and not if, for the sake of the need, a constitutional basis, in the Constitution in which it does not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4764	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have before us a draft bill on the Treasury of BiH Institutions. Looking at and reading all these solutions that were given here, I think that's a good basis for passing the final Treasury Act. It is high time that what we did last year and what we should do this year when we adopted the Budget of the BiH institutions and the Budget Act, that we have one documentation base and one system of preparation for the Budget and the creation of a framework for the adoption of the Budget. On the other hand, the adoption of this law establishes principles and procedures for managing revenues, especially the expenditure of BiH's joint institutions. Standardisation is being introduced and all that is needed in creating transparency, achieving transparency in spending budgets and all that is necessary for common bodies to function normally, i.e. BiH institutions' bodies. Discuss the constitutional basis and seek through the Constitution of BiH constitutional basis, I think we will come to a number of other laws that need to be passed, first 101 to determine the need to pass such a law. I think there must be a need here to pass such a law. I'm not a lawyer to be able to define a constitutional basis, but there must be an indirect constitutional basis here. Is there a budget wherever there is, budget revenues, expenditures, there has to be a vault? So, looking for a strict constitutional basis, beyond this, I think it's enough that we can figure out that there's a need based on this and that this material that we have is certainly a good basis, with certain modifications, some precision in technical details and other details, I think a good law on the trezor can be passed. I am in favour of this draft, the draft law on the Treasury of BiH Institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4765	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's very important that the bill contains the location of the vault. The location where the vault will be located. It's not true that this area was messy. He's got the Foreign Debt Act and the Budget Act. I say it is necessary to separate the need for the establishment of the BiH Institutions and the constitutional basis. Every time we're so broadly interpreted as the Constitution, some legal projects will stand in our throats. I'm just asking to make a simple statement about the location. Is the location of the Treasury part of one ministry, another ministry or is the Treasury a private institution within the BiH Council of Ministers. I do not know if there is anyone who can answer us, whether it is agreed or not, but the BiH Parliament must be aware of the intention of further work on the trezor, it is very important to make clear whether this can be a solid proposal or not. I mean, I have to convince you one more time, that I have a whole other story from another ministry and that I haven't told you in vain that I checked in the protocol that the constitutional basis came. Now we've come into a situation, we have or we don't have a Council of Ministers of BiH, but here are further legislative projects, so I'll warn you when you say there isn't, I'll say there is, but that's not good.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4766	Gentlemen, it seems to me that we have had a lot of discussion about this draft and a number of useful suggestions have been given, and it would be good, this is certainly a draft, that it is put forward in the procedure, and that the Finance Commission is seriously considering all this, clean up and come out with a clear proposal at the next assembly. There is also Mr Špirić who has really made a series of suggestions that we will accept, and also in the Finance Commission, therefore, it is an opportunity to come up with a quality proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4767	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like some clarifications. The BiH institutions vault is an institution that will be with the BiH Council of Ministers, as shown in Article 1. With this law, as an institution of BiH and as a matter of responsibility, it is directly responsible to the BiH Council of Ministers, as defined in Article 15, I think it is somewhere. They are responsible for their work to the BiH Council of Ministers. Here, too, the goal was for one particular institution to deal with this problem and for this problem to be as transparent as possible. The law mentions neither the other nor the third current ministry, but mentions BiH and BiH institutions and the Treasury as an institution that will be special and responsible directly to the BiH Council of Ministers. That's the point. If one of the members should explain it, then it is quite possible to accept it, but the intention and purpose of this law is to just happen. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4768	Is anyone else picking up? Nobody's answering. Gentlemen, before we move to the vote, I would like to inform you that we have received from the Office of the High Representative a letter stressing that the BiH Institution Act is essential, that it is delayed in its adoption, then that this law should be considered independently of all other drafts, including the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Treasury Act should be passed immediately. The law contains technical provisions laying down the conditions for the functioning of the Treasury. The law will be in line with any version of the law on the BiH Council of Ministers adopted in the end by parliament. Finally, under the conditions laid down by the IMF, it is required that the Institute of Payments be abolished by December 2000. The vault must be established now to avoid economic chaos. The donor countries are ready to provide any, technical, professional and financial assistance, but first the law needs to be passed. I want to introduce you to this memo, for reasons that this is an important area that needs to be arranged and I hope that we have discussed today, and I would at the end of a few technical remarks on the improvement of the text, so I will only now give as an MP. In Article 2, point 2, point 2, instead of the word "coordination", it may need to stand for "co-operation". In Article 4, point one behind the word, I don't insist, but I think that would be more appropriate when it comes to this, of course, I appreciate all the things that the gentlemen have been saying. In Article 4, point 1, the words “banks abroad” behind the word “business Bank” would be added in this way to the correlation of this point with point 1 of Article 5. In Article 8, point 1, point (c) shall be deleted and the words “Budgets and Entity Funds” shall be added. The law, by the way, is too general and I think it might have been shortened here, if that's possible, and I suggest that the working group consider shortening in some parts, meaning, folding the text and improving its quality. In Article 11, point 3, instead of saying, it should stand “gathering”, it is probably a printing error and I think it should simply be put. In Article 13, point 2, point 2. Behind the word “statistical institutions”, to delete the words “i”. Here, so much for me, of course, I appreciate everything the other MPs have been saying. Dear gentlemen, we will now move to a vote on the next conclusion. So the question will be: Who is in favour of this draft going into the draft procedure and delivering a stenogram on this debate to the promoter so that he can improve the text and make a more quality proposal. Do you understand what the conclusion is? We have an observation here, he says, he appreciates the suggestions that go in the direction of improving the text. I hope that's quite understandable for what I said. This is a draft. 103 How many are present? - 30. Who's to this conclusion I suggested? - Twenty-four for it. Who's against it? There isn't. Abstained 6. We vote on entities. From the RS, who's in? – 8 From the Federation of BiH, who is in favour? - 17 I konstatovati that 30 MPs attended the vote. The vote was 24-6 abstentions, not against. By entities, from RS 8 for. 17 from the Federation of BiH for. The draft was adopted and goes into the making of a proposal. Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to the sixth item of the agenda. Ad.6. (a) Giving consent to the ratification of the Energy Charter Agreement and the Energy Charter Protocol on energy efficiency and relevant environmental problems Does the Proposer have a short explanation, if necessary, of course? There isn't. How many are there? - 30. Who's in? - 27 against? - There are no 3 abstentions I don't think there's any need to vote on entities, but you can see from the structure. Of the 30 present, 27 votes for, 3 abstentions, agreement was given to ratify this agreement. (b) We need to give consent to the ratification of Amendment 1 Agreement concluded between BiH and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Is there a need for justification? There isn't. Attendance 30. Who's in? - 30, unanimous. I also find that consent has been given for the ratification of this agreement. Thank you very much. We have one proposal from the Vice-President of Skopljak to put one point in the agenda, which is a business possibility. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4769	Mr. Foreign Minister Jadranko Prlić, who was present here, explicitly asked that item 6th, scheduled item 6th of the 18th session, which, unfortunately, we will not be able to process today, be put on the agenda, and it reads the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency, on the taking of commitments in BiH's accession to the Council of Europe membership, etc. Well, because of the urgency, he's already flown, I don't know where, in Geneva, here in Strasbourg, he couldn't wait and he asked me, and we have a consensus this time, that you know, at the College, that we put this item on the agenda, because we really need to vote, because they have people of their own obligations that I believe in, and I want to make sure that this point is now voted on the agenda, or that we adopt it, or I think that this really benefits all of us as well as the state in which we live.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4770	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, there is a business opportunity for this approach. In the course of the session, it can be suggested. We'll vote on it. It won't go away if you don't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4771	As a member of the delegation, the visiting delegation of the BiH Parliament at the Council of Europe, I fully support Minister Prlić's proposal and ask my colleagues to accept this on the agenda, because tomorrow is the last day when this letter, signed, must be in Strasbourg, and next week will be held by the Political Affairs Committee on which a new rapporteur for BiH will be appointed and the respect for this timing would be extremely important for us. Again, I ask my colleagues to put this on the agenda, because it is really important that we support Minister Prlić's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4772	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4773	Indeed, we have agreed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that here in front of Parliament, here, with the help of Mr Skopljak, we have done so, that this Parliament, the Presidency of BiH and the Parliament of BiH, will assume the obligation to sign, ratify and implement the documents of the Council of Europe. There's a file here in English and in our language translated. This is about a common, normal procedure, and we are in a chateau and I appeal to you that this report, as presented by Mr. Skopljak, adopt it. If necessary, we can also elaborate on the details, but this is a perfectly normal thing, since the BiH Parliament has long spoken out by consensus on admission to the Council of Europe, and this is one of the necessary steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4774	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this paper is about those conditions that the Commission for Political Rights, Human Rights, as it is already called, has set up for BiH to join the Council of Europe. I think after that we had a session with them here, a joint session, this was done before. Here in this text stands, and there's no reason to suspect that entity governments have accepted these conditions. We have all really always made a declaration that we are to become full members of the Council of Europe and I really don't see any reason why, 105 if the condition for this to be accepted today, we would not accept this even after a brief procedure. I repeat once again, what is defined in Paris as conditions for admission to permanent membership of Europe is mentioned here, and what we have already accepted in discussion with the gentlemen of the Council of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4775	Is anyone else answering for a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4776	First, I would like to say that today on the Constitutional Commission we had this statement and that we unanimously, all eight, all nine members of the Constitutional Commission supported it. Officially-legal, I think it's more important, Mr. Chairman, instead of saying that we support this, that you put this item to the vote after this date, whether this agenda item is going to be on the agenda, because it seems to me that we don't get exhausted in the discussions before this point even comes to the agenda. So I think it might be a previous question, and then possibly a discussion about the text itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4777	Will Mr. Lagumdžija speak now or later? Now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4778	Some have remained a report on the implementation of the Stability Pact so far, point 5. I thank my fellow Živalj. Namely, this point that Mr. Skopljak has rightly requested to be put on the agenda was supposed to be the 6th item of the next session, following the BiH Presidency's information on the implementation of the Stability Pact commitments. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, it is quite clear to us that Mr. Skopljak, like anyone, has the right to have business rights during the session to request an amendment to the agenda and to ask for this House to be declared and we will do so, do not slow down by anyone. Also, I believe that the statement by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Presidency on making commitments in BiH's accession to the Council of Europe's membership is something that neither of us, in itself, will be controversial. On the contrary, I must admit that the SDP MPs' Club is looking forward to this statement unanimously being adopted in Parliament, because it will be more reason for us, what we have been talking about for a long time, to bring our normative act into line, first and foremost the Constitution of BiH, and thus the Election Law and all other legislation, thus obtaining another support for these efforts to bring these acts into line with what we are going to adopt unanimously here, because the Council of Europe is asking us to do so, we support it. 106 However, I would like to express my dissatisfaction, as an MP, call it whatever you will, Mr. Skopljak, which has not been done this morning. Mr. Minister was here, I don't want to ugly the minister now, conditionally, because the man is gone and it's not right, and here are his two deputies and MP Silajdžić says, the man is no longer a minister, which I wouldn't want to comment on right now. We've got two men here representing themselves as deputy ministers, and we're still treating them that way, and the minister treats us that way, and I wouldn't want to speak so much now, critics to direct more to Mr. Secretary. I believe, Mr. Skopljak, that this statement should be found before us, and I would also ask you and I believe, and we as SDP MPs are ready to come when it is necessary, whenever it is necessary to discuss the Information of the BiH Presidency on the implementation of the Stability Pact obligations, because I believe that such information is incomparably more important than anything we have discussed so far. I think of it for one simple reason that in the paper ahead of us, among other things, it writes what we received as a preparation for that point, that a conference in Brussels is coming soon, one month from today, where it will be collected for BiH projects, as it is expected here, will gather 402m euros. We can also see, in the same papers that we got, that at that conference, there will be approximately no more than 20 billion collection, I repeat, 20 billion euros. 20, that says here. Two should initially put the European Commission and the World Bank, I don't know who already said it, it also says two billion, it's going to be an initial token, but it's expected to be 20 billion, and here it's perfectly telling us that we're going to get 402 million, which is no less than 50th of the amount announced here, the 50th part, and we're one of the main patients of the Stability Pact. Please, I'm not appealing anything else to you, but to start the real questions as soon as possible, by... I'm asking the question. Why we're not on the agenda today. Here in the papers, it says, gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and ladies and gentlemen, that, among other things, for education, that for the media, there are people sitting here who work in the media or worked in the media. It shows here that for the media in many projects, nothing was obtained or requested for BiH, through the Stability Pact, and while we were sitting here, the independent television 99 that broadcast this, was supposed to carry this, at two o'clock the power was cut, at half two. Not that we haven't asked for money, but the power is being cut to whoever's carrying this thing before it starts to transmit what we're talking about here right now. Maybe it would have been better if they hadn't passed it on. I suggest, fellow Skopljak, let's put it this way, I'm not asking to make a statement. I personally, and on behalf of the MPs' club, am expressing my discontent that Mr. Secretary did not ask for this sooner to come out first this morning. Which he didn't ask us to plead. I express my dissatisfaction and appeal to you to find ways, not to put this on the agenda, but to at least open it today so that someone can give us an introduction to the information that is ahead of us so that we can ask them a few questions, so that in a few days we can have a debate on what to do with it, so that the 29th in Brussels is something different, that on this paper that will be on the Stability Pact that will be in Thessaloniki in May, May 12th, which says here how to prepare ourselves, etc. And don't open up a story about the subject. I guess what I'm saying right now is important to all of us, no matter what we think about the entity's name on the cover of some, this is what we agree to put on the agenda. 107 I would ask you, Mr. Banjac, to try to get out of this session today, at least by opening questions. As far as I'm concerned, you can, if you want, run for the BiH Presidency's information on the implementation of the Stability Pact obligations to be put on the agenda today, too, after this information. Here, here, let's add the information that Minister Prlić asked for, let's add this, and let's listen to someone, so if anything, somebody tell us, he didn't mean to tell us anything, so we've done enough to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4779	My colleague Skopljak has an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4780	kolega Lagumdžija, we absolutely agree in the discussions and I don't think there's anything here that would be cool or anything vague. In fact, when we make a deal, then we have a clean situation. What happened? Mr. Jadranko Prlić asked, since we thought to start today with the 18th session, we had real indicators that we would go with that session, unfortunately, we did as we did. I promised Mr. Jadranko Prlić, since I should have taken charge of that session, that at the first point, with your agreement clearly, I would offer exactly this information and therefore simply, there is no other reason and simply this is an explanation. But when we didn't get to that 18th session, then I think it's quite clear and logical to do it now. Unfortunately, I didn't know Mr. Jadranko Prlić had to fly. Who is it that the Declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Presidency of BiH, on the taking over of obligations in BiH's accession to the Council of Europe membership, materials that you received under the number 10712-02-BE-1402-P00 of 14/02, is placed on the agenda of this session as the seventh point? How many were present? - How much did it vote for? - 25 Who's against it? Subtracted 5 I find that this point is included in the agenda, because there's no need entityically, that's what you see. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. You want us to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4782	Speak from place and no exposure is heard
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4783	I've got it on behalf of the College. Mr Lagumdžija, the Kolegijum suggests that this point, Information from the BiH Presidency on the realisation of the commitments go as the first point of the following, 18. Sit down, and that's for sure, since we know we're not gonna finish it tonight. Are you giving up? Saglasan. Regrettfully agreed. Here, there's a suggestion, if you're sorry to leave her. I'm opening a debate on the 7th item of the agenda, which is 108 Ad.7. Declaration by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency on the commitment of BiH to join the Council of Europe Does anyone report for the discussion? There isn't. How many are there? - 30 Who's in favor of adopting this statement? - 23 Who's against it? - 3 abstentions 4 By entities there is no need to vote, as I see the structure of the vote. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. I find this statement accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4784	Since this point has been accepted by the BiH Parliament, I ask you to force it to be signed and sent to Strasbourg in time. Five people have to sign this. The BiH presidency, and you, Mr. Banjac, and Mr. Žigić, and please sign and send it to Strasbourg by tomorrow, not only to accept, but to sign and send it to Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4785	That's understood and accepted. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. Answers to MPs' questions and questions We, gentlemen, have received only an answer to the parliamentary question asked by the MP, Mrs Perkanović. You got that answer. There's no need to read. Mrs. Perkanović, is she satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4786	I am partially satisfied with the answer, for the reason that the answer was that interest on foreign savings refers to the transfer to privatisation. My question was more about enrolling interest on the old foreign exchange savings of those people who did not express their desire to pass it on to the privatisation paper. So what about those people who don't want their foreign savings transferred to privatisation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4787	You have also received a specification of all the questions asked by the MPs and when they are addressed because you have asked for it. That's what you have on you. Here, any questions? poslanik Skopljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4788	I have no particular question, but I have one information to this high home, which is a question of one television show, or one film called “warren”, which is shown on BiH TV in two parts. In the first part, I will be very dry, not really wanting to criticize anything, but looking for exits for BiH, that is, for all of us here. BiH, once again, is my country, gentlemen, I think as much of it as it is for the Bošnjak and for every Srbin and, I don't know, whatever you want, for the Ciganin and not to pick up the other minorities so I don't insult them. On that show, in that movie, I don't know what to call it, I saw it all the way. In the first part, the film refers to the British battalion's stay at Knights. Because I know the situation very well, I felt it on my back both in The Hague and in the Knights, and I don't know where else, and I'll tell you only in God's court, where I expect a truly final rehabilitation of all that and for what I am in '73. Radio and now, but the least important thing is what's personal to me. In the first part, last week, the Serb army was shown so terriblely that I was disgusted as a Hrvat. I would like to finally start talking, we Hrvat, about those bad things that we do to another people, and Srbin about our people who do, possibly extremists, to someone else, to third people, and Bošnjak and others, as you want me to call you, or what it is, please don't realize that I want to offend anyone here, that they're talking about those bad things that happen inside their Corps. Then BiH will be a more convincing state than it is now. I'm telling you, in the first part, there was a terrible display of the Serbian army, and I thought someone was protesting, because they announced the next day a sequel to this film, but I thought that someone had responded and that the film was interrupted and that the movie was shown after 7 days on Sunday, and then I was horrified, too, where the Hrvat were, both as a people and as an army and as an HVO, shown even worse. I was horrified. What I think doesn't look like a cartoon. Hospitals are recorded on one side, crimes are recorded on one side, and there is no other side. Tragedies are being recorded. They're shooting Ahmić who are tragedy. I, as a Hrvat, tell you that the Ahmics are a tragedy. For this tragedy, someone has to answer, and they'll answer. But, gentlemen, Ahmić's hundreds more and hundreds have happened and they're nowhere to be found, but the gentlemen have done. They did, and I say, I expect that British battalion, which we know well what it is and how it worked in the Knights area at least. I'm only saying what I personally saw and what I personally experienced, and that's how I bring it out here. I advocate, gentlemen, that we make one general reconciliation. If we look for everything that's been done and how he's done, we'll all end up fatter. I personally really advocated a general reconciliation and that in such films, if BiH, or BiH TV, should be my television, I did not experience it at all on Sunday afternoon, just in the short term, after the Dnevnik clearly, I did not see it as my own, but as a total opponent of both me and my people. Not to tell you how many objects came, how many people grabbed my shoulders and how many people were protesting against a movie like that. I would like those well-intentioned people, once again, to underline this very well-intentioned, because of the building of trust, because of the construction of the BiH state, to make it known to the people who saw that movie from the Bosniak Corps. Is that correct? Isn't that how it is, that hospital, that crucifying people, and I don't know what it is. I've been to the Knight. I was in the basement and I was shelled and wounded, I don't know who, and that side, unfortunately, isn't there. Wasn't that the kind of report that could have been made at the hospital in Billy, in that church that I was building back then? I never knew they'd serve for the hospital, etc. 110 I ask you, in the spirit of reconciliation, that in the spirit of the alignment of those crimes that have been committed, unfortunately, on all three sides, we should once go positively into building BiH. This film has not contributed at all to the trust or to the end of the hatred that exists among the nations. But he didn't even contribute to the reputation of Britbat and his Mr. Bob Stjuart, who we know what he was doing and what he was doing in Knights. I guess it'll be at least in front of God's court sanctioned and I'll be sanctioned this time, since I don't believe any more, I've passed all the courts that can pass, I no longer trust any human court. I expect God's judgment in which you, of course, don't have to believe. I beg you, this only calls for information and in spirit, once again I say, reconciliation and construction of BiH and my country. I'm not kidding.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4789	Dear MPs, we received in the material we received earlier for this meeting of the MIP, we received this material at the end of January, we received a tabular review of the BiH DKP's staff fill-up, in the embassies, in consulates, and in missions with international organisations. The examination shows what, about what we knew or what we assumed. In fact, a large number of employees are working under an act contract, even without the MIP's decision. A number of employees have inadequate solutions or work without a solution at all. There's a lot of unfulfilled places. The particularly national structure of the employees of the DKP, least said, is inappropriate, almost defeative. I did my best, so I made a small copy of this data. I assume you've all looked at these materials and I'd just like to take something out for an illustration. 189 Bošnjak, 36 Hrvat, imagine, 16 Srbin and as many as 37 foreigners. If we add that almost, not nearly, but an absolutely one-national composition of Bosniak in London, Stockholm, Ankara, Istanbul, Copenhagen, Geneva, Strasbourg, and even in Washington, where we have one in order of the others, and about Arab countries not to speak, it's clear. The MIP has not given any reference to why it is, or what it has done, or what it will do and when, to change this obvious and extremely unsatisfactory human structure and the situation in the DKPs at all. So I ask the question, I ask the MIP, by supplementing this information on the structure of the employees here, and I would ask that it be within a reasonable time frame. I think 15 days would really be the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4790	Here's the answer, here's the deputy minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for this information that has been provided by Mrs. Havel, this information does not correspond to the proper state of the DKP network at all. We in the DKP network, the truth is, at this point, by solution, we have the most employees of Bošnjak. The network is being filled in, as agreed by the foreign ministry, with representatives of the other two constituent nations, it is a process that is ongoing and not completed, as the DKP network of BiH has not been completed recently. Recently, 111 of the BiH presidency agreed that BiH has 37 embassies, 8 general consulates, 3 consulates and that we have five missions, it is only agreed. Only recently did ours go, one tour of the ambassador to the United States, where finally after one course of three weeks, they will be ready to take their ambassadors' seats. As far as the deal of action is concerned, we have resorted to a large number of people working under the contract of action to the moment until we have completed the negotiation process, how and how to establish the DKP network. These people, temporarily, are all solutions that do not commit either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or any other institution in BiH, perform certain tasks, for the sake of the needs of our citizens, above all, consular and legal protection. These people are not workers of the Foreign Ministry, and if you're dealing with these people, they're not people who work at the Foreign Ministry. As for a number of countries like, say, India, Japan or Indonesia, which are taken to work under an act contract, they're people, they're not foreigners. These are from host countries, which is a normal practice in countries where a very expensive DKP network is a destination. Thus, five people from BiH would be sent to one India, not to take advantage of cheap labour, to say here, which is present there would be a front-row carrier, given the economic situation in which BiH is located. As for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will deliver this to you in writing. In BiH, it is agreed, according to the first version, that we have 148 employees in the headqaurter in Sarajevo, balanced in the way we agreed. By the way, I was the only one who fought in that ministry that we had one quota for the others. It has never been over, and we have only distribution, balance, Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, which is unfortunately not our honor, given this recent decision on a statement to accept everything we have agreed on about the Council of Europe, because this is not how minorities are protected when it comes to the MIP, that they can take a job. The Headqaurter is fully balanced, and the BiH Council of Ministers decided two months ago to expand the number of employees employed by the foreign ministry for 27 new employees or employees. Therefore, the headqaurter is completely balanced. The matter is completely over. The only thing to come is the possible reorganisation, i.e. the establishment of an office or a sector for European integration, which we will need very much for the Stability Pact. This is now an ad hoc answer, so you don't run out of answers, otherwise you'll get in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4792	I thank Mr. Kurtović, and I'm really glad I heard this, and I hope we all get it in writing. I'm sorry, Živalj. I just objected why we didn't get it before. We've got this material, and the objection is mine here that the data that I've provided is not correct. That data is correct, because this data we got, here it is, I got here. If you want, I'll present them all to you and I may have made a mistake in one or two numbers, but those numbers I threw out, they stand there and I didn't make them up, but you sent this to us, and these are all MPs, so here are the data that I didn't invent, and I didn't ask to say that, too. This is, I mean the proposal, it seems to me SDP, asked for this information, and I really thank them, whoever it was that asked for it, I don't know right now that it is, but the data is accurate, and I've been telling them about the exact data. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4793	I, indeed, thank Mrs. Ana Havel for trying and uninvited to answer the questions raised in this assembly behind this pay phone, and I have asked them, not on behalf of my own, but on behalf of the Commission for International Relations and Foreign Policy. This Commission has also requested comprehensive information from the Ministry and not only the naked data, but conditions, criteria, level achieved, problems, etc. We have given up further requests, considering what has been done so far with extreme unseriousness, and we will deal with this when we talk about the new composition of the BiH Council of Ministers. Then we'll talk about these things. It is not just the ministry here, but it is many others, who are not responsible for this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4794	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if Mr. Božanić agrees with what Mr. Živalj said, but Prlić specifically, but I can't ask Mr. Prlić, because he's not here, so it would be considered a cynical, unnecessary provocation. However, a joke aside, Mr. Kadić, I neither ask Mr. Prlić nor can I ask Mr. Božanić, because he probably would if he didn't agree I found it appropriate to say that he disagreed with it, was not the first time that when he disagreed to talk about it here. However, Mr. Živalj, from this pay phone, answering questions, I do not want at all, you will give an answer to Mrs. Havel who will be delivered to other MPs. I am truly, in a certain way, very pleased with the fact that at least someone at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this, according to your basic recognition, was You, you, too, advocated that others, as a national minority, were conditionally said here, that is, unconstitutional in any part of BiH territory, were represented in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in places that exist there, or in the DKP. For me, it is indeed, and I think that the effort that has been made that one of the ambassadors, not only of the porters and guards, is being represented here, I think it is something that would, in any case, get support from other political forces, not only would your personal request remain. But at the same time, for me, it's a devastating statement that I've heard, and in that light I ask a parliamentary question, I don't ask you to answer me now, and you can, but I'm sure you won't be able to answer everything, so I expect you in writing. Namely, this speaker has now said that the MIP is said to be representatives of the people, although there are ministers and two deputies, which I do not dispute that they entered there in an appropriate ethnic quota, that they have agreed on how many Bošnjak, how many Srbin, how many Hrvat will be in the MIP, including the DKP. I do not dispute that there should be national balance, even in some situations, and parity to the extent to which the Constitution proposes, or suggests, or seeks. However, it is devastating to hear from this pay phone that the entire ministry is agreed, all employed, how many Bošnjak, how many Srbin, as many Hrvat, will be. It is not devastating, Mr. Živalj, which there are no others, how devastating the fact that you have informed us here that, ever since he knocked on the door of that ministry, by the time he reached Mr. Minister, there is known where Bošnjak is sitting, where a Srbin, where a Hrvat is sitting. I'm asking you to answer me, who made the deal? I want to know when you agreed to this. In what 113 official or unofficial place? I want to know exactly what you're actually up to. I want to know, too, how you made your deal. I want you to answer how happy you are with the degree of implementation of what you have agreed and, too, to save further effort, I want you to answer who's going to be responsible for this together. For the sake of agreement, so for the unimplemented, and for Bog's sake, and for the implemented. To tell me how you intend to change it according to, 15 minutes ago, the adopted letter to Mr. Lord that there will be no discrimination here on any basis. I want you to answer me very clearly and precisely. When you're gonna change this, or we're gonna have to change you first, to change this. Not entering into the accuracy of these allegations, I must say, too, that I expect in this answer, to get an answer to the question, because, like all MPs, I, like all MPs, have received the material that Mrs Havel is talking about, from which it is very clearly seen, I did not count as Mrs Havel, but it is very clear that the basic tone of what she was saying is present in the Information that we have received. I also heard that Mr. Živalj, whom I absolutely have no reason not to believe, on the contrary, believe that it is not true. I'm asking you to answer who sent it? Why is it like that and how is it that something that isn't true has been sent to us? If that's true, then how is it true? Mr. Živalj, I expect from your ministry, and to be very precise, since you are an honorable and serious man, I personally expect an answer from you, because you have told us, or informed us, that you have divided the Ministry from porters to ministers in this country. I also want to express my disdain and disdain for the party that I represent, not that it's said here, but that it even occurred to someone, let alone did it, and unfortunately, you did it. I think it's hypocritical to write to the Lord the letter we adopted here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4795	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of discussing this, but after Mr Lagumdžija's discussion and what the Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs said, I have a few things to say. We've heard a lot from Mr. Lagumdžija here and a lot of questions and thesis and everything that's important about what we discussed today. Mr. Assistant Minister, I would say, irresponsibly, he said there are no others in the foreign ministry except Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. I know there are even ambassadors who are neither Srbin nor Hrvat nor Bošnjak. I'm not going to bid names here, but apparently, if a quota is allocated to the RS, it is immediately considered to be a Srbin. If a quota is granted to the Federation of BiH, it must immediately be a Hrvat or a Bošnjak. Who among you has counted all these people, to make known what they are. I don't think you're safe, because if you don't know that among ambassadors there are also those who are neither Srbin nor Hrvat or Bošnjak, then you certainly don't even know among the employees.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4796	Gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members, I must admit that I am a little surprised, first of all by tone, well, the politicization of all this from the Stability Pact is still pre-election, of course, and I can understand that, and those who were present when we formed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a building where there were not enough 114 chairs, people stood, very well know how it was. The rest are Bošnjak, mostly, because those Bošnjak are left behind and the others are gone. I'm sorry, Mr. Lagumdžija, I haven't interrupted you. You've been through a lot twice, and be good, sit where you sit, and don't interrupt me. They are, Bošnjak are more, above all, because of what they are left. And I can tell you, Mrs. Havel, that there were people of Croatian nationality who were the moment they asked me to be admitted to work, say '93. years, were received and the next day went to Zagreb, we know them and you and I. People didn't want to stay, that's what this is about. They didn't want to stay. The foreign ministry left it with all those who simply did not believe in BiH at the time. The situation in 1991 was such that 78% of the diplomatic staff were Serbian nationalities, including BiH, they mainly left us. There was no talking about one thing here. Let me show you the situation. Three MIP workers cannot go anywhere, they must go outside because they are not proposed by these parties here. We asked the international community to help them, they feel like patriots, Bosanac and Hercegovac, these are people who stayed throughout the war, worked for BiH and now they have no room and that you know that the problem is three. I will not name these people, however, it was a problem. We asked for help from the international community. We didn't get it. We even got a letter that, well, we have to make a deal. If we make a deal this way, then it'll be what it is. Let me tell you one more thing. Your party, Mrs. Havel, has requested the replacement of this ambassador who is neither, nor the other, nor the third from Washington. I had to condition it with my resignation to keep that man in Washington. Your party insisted on going to a completely different man and saying that this man who is now in Washington is now in second place at the embassy, Mr. Alkalaj, that he does not represent anyone and that he must return to BiH. I said, if he comes back, I'm resigning right now, because I didn't believe in these divisions and the Ministry this way, etc. So, of course, the rest of them, mostly, are Bošnjak because they're left, others are gone, by a large majority. There are people left. That's what left the problem. We're not going to look at that problem just through the MIP, because today I said, I'm for consistency in that parity, everywhere parity and everywhere to see where who is who, and not just in the MIP. Where's who back? How many people in West Mostar have returned? The other day, I was with the citizens, with an association of citizens, who told me that no one had returned, not even those who had been expelled after Dejton. We can't talk at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not talk about the fact, about the non-representation of these people in their homes and their homes, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We need to be consistent with those criteria.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4797	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4798	I'm sorry, you didn't interrupt the others, Mr. Banjac. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4799	But you've moved on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4800	If you take, add up, we need to buy a little computer, it can get you some of our colleagues, see how much anyone's talking. I'd like to say this. On the occasion of Mr. Skopljak's appearance, I'm very sorry that he felt so bad when he saw that movie. You can imagine how people were feeling when it happened, if the movie was hard to watch. The UN, therefore, did not say everyone did, did a report on what happened in Srebrenica, admitted great mistakes, said it was...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4801	Please, these are MPs' questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4802	Well, let it go, please, so I just listened to Mr. Skopljak about the movie, you understand. He didn't ask a question, he called for reconciliation. I say that reconciliation can't be if we say all three sides worked, but only the truth about what happened. That's true. We should make other movies, but let's say all three sides were working, don't, however, this isn't a kindergarten here, we know very well what was going on and we know what was going on worse than what was on that movie. The truth about everyone, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4803	Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Dokić, there is also here, gentlemen, the gentlemen are deputy ministers and I cannot have priority over the MPs. I can't accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4804	I so rarely have replicas, yet you should listen to me. First of all, what Mr. Silajdžić is saying, I have to tell him this, if I hadn't asked him a question in 1991, and I didn't debate politically, and I didn't ask that question here in order to make myself a political change. Mr. Silajdžić, I really must tell you, this is the fourth time you've expressed your political views here, I won't. I will neither criticize nor praise my party. I'm not saying the party didn't have any problems either. I didn't ask for answers like this. I'm just looking, a year and a half, for this Parliament, in a year and a half, it's been said that something will be done, nothing has been done. Here, I say, you don't need to go back to '91. A year, if we're going to leave then, then we've got a lot to find. Why didn't something happen in the last year? I've been asking that question to do something, not to criticize it any further, but to fix the situation. It is in everyone's interest for this BiH to be a real state. Are we going to the Council of Europe or not? I really wouldn't be political here right now, but I have one more thing to say. It's about Mostar all the time. Please, I'll give you one piece of information. In that Mostar, thousands and a half of Bošnjak Muslims were retired throughout the war, in Western Mostar. There are no more than 30 or 50 Hrvat in eastern Mostar today, please check that information. Which return you're talking about. I think everyone needs 116 back to their seats, but that's not the subject of this conversation here. I asked the question, and I'm asking you to give me an answer at the next session, and we're not discussing it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4805	It's not bad that ministers are quick to come out for a pay phone, but I'm afraid they're reluctant to speak for the pay phone today, because if they were ready, they'd file written information on all these issues, in detail, as requested and not once sought, but I answered for some other reason. You see, the problem has also arisen precisely because of what Mr. Silajdžić was just talking about, precisely because the others are the ones who stayed, and I want to remind you that one of the conclusions is, don't hold my hand now, but I mean conferences in Sintra to be up until 1 July 1997. For years, replace everything that symbolized RBiH, with what BiH represents now, so it has been extended due to the inability to realise until 31, it seems to me, August and once again extended to November, and since November 1997, you all know how long it's been. We're changing the issues of BiH's defence and what we stand for, but we've all become clear and transparent about what we stand for. When it is in our interest to implement some decisions of international conferences, then we are loud behind this pay phone and behind other payphones, and we point to problems that arise justifiably, and those who answer to stay are silent. I repeat again, the problem is that there are others who are left behind and the problem is in many of the symbols that are left behind. If that had been done, then this, at least, television that showed the film that Mr. Skopljak was talking about, which I don't know about, therefore, I can't talk about the film, but if that decision had been made, that television wouldn't have been able to present that film. Because BiH Television was supposed to, this is the kind of TV BiH couldn't do after '97. years to bear such a name.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4806	I'm really not going to fall for the provocations, I'm going to try to be cold to the end. Gentlemen, unfortunately, I can't say this without a personal example. Mr. Silajdžić, as a man, I respect you very much, and I think I'm showing it. I also appreciate what you are doing and do quality work, but, please, I am asking you as a man who, you well know, of hatred accused of hating a titoistic and communist party tried, what, guilty, innocent, I don't know, to my country of Croatia, after completely guilty and soulless, and everything else, out of the hatred of the accused man in BiH, from my Croatian state arrested and from the great Hag searched to the fifth veins and released. I beg you, where is the morale of this House, which pleads with The Hag, when I am arrested by The Hag, then it is pleaded with The Hagu out of hatred. When The Hag lets me go as a man who didn't do what some people incriminate, I don't know where not, I really won't, then you're against The Hag's decision. I ask where is the morale of this House. Answer me that, Mr. Silajdžić. I think Križanić's village, as well as the Markale, did neither Hrvat nor Bošnjak themselves. I'm asking you to consider your conscience, if who's here. I, unfortunately, have it and it bothers me to accept many things and to accept many things that incriminate myself for granted. I offer reconciliation once again, and that means, in my opinion, that anyone who has done evil should answer. The difference between me and you is what I say in Ahmić is evil, but you will not go beyond your hands, across your mouth to accept 117 that evil happened in Križanić's village, both in Buza's houses, and in Uzdol, etc. But not to preach further, this is, in my opinion, too great. I'm still saying, I am, and after everything that's happened to me, the man of reconciliation, I am the man who will honestly and honestly build BiH here as a state, you will see to it, if Bog will, and in this House, benevolent, and on the other hand, Bog help.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4807	I don't have the right to take a word and let one go. I let people say what's bothering them, and I'm glad BiH's public will hear and there's no reconciliation and what can't be in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4808	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I didn't want in that first response to go into detail and elaborate through what kind of Scylla and haribde the only BiH institution has been going through, which has been going through since the day of today, since 1992, when the flag of BiH was turned on Istria, so to this day, what kind of Scylla and haribde has been going through to get us into a position where we are almost in the final, transformation of that institution, so I repeat the transformations, because it's the only Ministry that didn't come after Dejton, but only transformed, that's one thing. Mr. Lagumdžija, if you knew what kind of torture I went through in this institution trying to get the rest of them into the ambassadors' quota and employees at the BiH Foreign Ministry, then you'd probably have a slightly different conversation and have a slightly different tone for this speaker. But in that report that will reach every MP here, you will see the structure of employees and '92. and '93. And '94. The year, until '99. And it's a solution. Please don't tell me about the deed contracts. It's something else entirely. It's protecting us because of economic problems, how to function, but yes, we go 4-5, even more cheaply. Therefore, it is a matter that every foreign ministry's leadership will face. Don't put that on my list and talk to me at the pay phone here. The BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I personally asked for the legal opinion or legal opinion of the OHR, when it was the establishment of the first quota of 33 embassies, i.e. 33 ambassadors in which I insisted that I be answered in a way that the rest of BiH could enter as the largest and highest-ranked representatives of BiH, i.e. to be ambassadors to BiH around the world. I have received an opinion, which I will also present to you, and given that Mr Lagumdžija has declared here that the division of the Bošnjak of Srbin and Hrvat will then probably be embellished by the OHR's visa-a-vi of the others. What Mr Silajdžić just said, I am fighting in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Srbin who, under the circumstances, are from Sarajevo or the Federation of BiH as one of the BiH entities. I have a written response from international representatives, how and how to resolve it, so when you get that, Mr. Lagumdžija, then you'll be even more consterned. 118 Therefore, there is a reality here on stage that, according to the Dayton Constitution, says that one third of those employed in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be from the RS, and two thirds from the Federation of BiH, that is the Dayton formula and we in that formula, of course if we are sincere advocates of multiethnic BiH and BiH for which we stand and fight whenever we want in the Council of Europe, in that structure, I am trying to get the ostali in. Therefore, there are written clues, there are answers, there is correspondence between the foreign ministry, OHR and other international institutions. The answer in writing will come, when it comes to employment, but I note in the presence of Holburk and Gelbart, ambassador to the museum two and a half years ago, the distribution of 33 places was 13-11-9, which was nominated by those who sponsored the Dayton Agreement. I was against that decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4809	I hope we get that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4810	Yet there were some words that were very difficult for me personally, given that I was really in principle fighting in a way that the picture of BiH was really painted in the most representative ministry, which is the foreign ministry. I repeat again. The procedure in the headquarter, it's over in the seat. But the procedure is not completed until the end of the DKP network for objective reasons. The only thing that's over is how many destinations we're going to have, that's 53 at this point. The completeness of the DKP network, balanced to respond to that picture as is BiH, both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat, but also ostali, is not finished. So, I want to say here, I am not ashamed of this process that I led at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's nothing scary, but it should also be realistic in this situation, when we transform in every respect and try to make institutions at the level of the BiH state, in accordance with the wishes of all, of course, and with consensus, it is a process that is very painful, painful, but I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4811	I apologize, write down what you're saying, and we'll have a chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4812	I'll end up here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4813	I can't interrupt the session, we have to let people say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4814	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues here in parliament, I ask you to listen to the other of the three sides that exist at the MIP. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I resent you for opening the agenda without the foreign minister. This was a parliamentary question and you have the right to get 119 answers to the parliamentary question. Whether we're satisfied or not, Mr. Lagumdžija, we can do it in private, and we can get out of here and from this pay phone, it's not a dispute, we'll tell you that, but first you need to get the information you asked for. You were here as MPs looking for state data in the DKPs and you got that. I'm not, Mr. Dokić, sure you've been looking for that particular data on the structure of employees, who they are, what they are, if you're looking for, you'll get that, too. Look for the record, what you sent us to the Foreign Ministry, you got it by emergency procedure, and I did it to you, on an urgent order for the next session. Now a few things I have to say that I don't want to lose my answer to Mr. Lagumdžija. You see, they have some categories that are very precisely defined in the Constitution of BiH and about them, Mr Lagumdžija, neither you nor I can talk unless we want to change the Constitution. One of those categories was said by Mr. Živalj. The constitution says very precisely that one third, i.e. not more than two thirds of the Federation of BiH and one third of RS are personnel made up of the BiH Foreign Ministry. It is a category in which the Srbin do not say, but says from the RS, please, because it is very precise written and another very precise category in the Constitution, which absolutely implies parity in the ministries and also in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that means, Minister and two deputies from other constituent peoples. In that sense, you are asking for an answer from all three, because we are all equally responsible for what is good and for what is wrong with the ministries, and also for our ministry, the Foreign Ministry. These are the two very important things you have to consider. One of the categories you'll probably be talking about, category of others. Believe me, and after an interpretation two and a half years ago on that tumultuous night of ours when we were doing the first re-distribution of the DKPs, not now, in fact, to me, nor to the international community, nor to you, in fact, it's not a clear category of what the rest means. Who are the others in the RS and who are the ostali in the Federation of BiH? Whether the ambassadors are Srbin who have now travelled and live in the Federation of BiH, the rest of the categories sent by RS representatives to the DKPs in BiH, you answer me, and then I will give you an answer. We've got an answer to that, and we've got a so-called. Others who are easily defined, Jevrej, (Ganac), Hrvat, blacks and other ethnicities and peoples living in our country called BiH. There are some problems we'll discuss when there's a topic on the agenda. Mrs. Havel, and someone else mentioned it, and to the Srbin who are reportedly being protected from other Srbin in the foreign ministry, and we'll talk about it. There are also those who should have retired a long time ago, I guess in our positive laws we advocate that the younger ones come to their place, and those who already have 30 and 35 diplomatic internships to retire, and that's what I'm saying we'll talk about next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4815	That's what we'll get in the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4816	I beg you, Chairman, I have been obliged to answer this. I will discuss my satisfaction and dissatisfaction when you, based on the 120 data we have given you, put this on the agenda of the BiH Parliament, with the presence of ministers and two deputies and we are obliged to give you a full answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4817	But, please, take that down to questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4818	Who are you telling?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4819	You, you're going out now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4820	Mr. Banjac, gentlemen of the College, colleagues, we've just heard from the chairman that I need to ask the question. You'll get a question, Mr. Banjac. However, I remind you that I asked to replicate for one simple reason why, with the name and last name, Mr Silajdžić directly mentioned me, explaining that I should sit on a chair, probably speaking about his political culture and habits and I would not talk about it, I will tell Mr. Živalj and Mr. Božanić who directly mentioned me, along with Mr. Silajdžić. I draw attention to the fact that all of this began with its course to go when it was released to Mr Silajdžić to answer a question that no one had asked him and then to comment on the answers and questions which, according to the Rules of Procedure, he also had no right to do. I must admit, Mr. Banjac, that I am, I doubt whether you are fascinated by Mr. Silajdžić's role as former co-chairman, so much or, in fact, you are consciously letting the debate take place here, which is made of this parliament by some kind of company that is on the sidelines. I don't know, I don't know, and I don't ask you that, but I suggest you answer yourself, and then try to act according to what you answer yourself, if you don't already know. Mr. Živalj, I have to admit that for the tours you've been going through, I have great understanding and I have no doubt that it's been really easy for you in these four years, if I'm not mistaken, two and a half, since you're deputy minister, from there in January '97. A year. Here, three and a half years old. However, that seems brief. I repeat the question. I didn't ask you what the Constitution says. I asked who agreed, when agreed, what agreed, when you talked about sharing the ministry, from porters to ministers to Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. Mr Božanić, you are here either by not knowing the Constitution or by deluding the BiH Parliament. The Constitution in Article 5. 3. b., the authority of the BiH presidency speaks of ambassadors, saying that two-thirds will be from the Federation of BiH, and the Constitution, Article 5 of point 4b., says that the ministers, or their deputies, will be in the right number from the entity. This is not about ministers and ambassadors, but about my concerns, so they don't answer my second question. The question concerns employees, workers. There is no Constitution of that, Mr. Božanić. Believe me, you'll have a problem finding 121, and I wouldn't be surprised if one of you signed it, although there's no such thing anywhere, but we're waiting for it to say it. We're waiting to see how you agreed. Where did you agree that there should be one-third of Srbin in the Porter Constitution? Where you agreed to have one-third of the Hrvat driver. Where it says so in the Constitution and, if it does not say, who gave you the right to answer, to agree and then to answer me here, and very orchestratedly, Mr Silajdžić and You, Mr Božanić. I have to admit, I've never seen that trolist in any combination before. My question is, right now, I must tell you that you, Mr. Skopljak, have asked me to question you, speaking of morality. My question, as an MP, is for this home to be answered, morale tells me, where is Đedović? I know, it's forgotten, ma'am. A man rots, forgets himself. My question is, where is Ambassador Đedović? I wonder if anyone will have the courage and courage to raise his hand and replicate this. I'd love to. I'm not asking a question that would be registered if we asked, an esteemed colleague. It's been asked. Here, we'll ask again. We've been invited by a colleague of Skopljak to the morals. We'll ask until he answers, that we don't have to ask anymore, not until he answers to us to answer. I ask you, as an MP, where is Đedović? When he does, he'll have to answer for what he's been missing or what's out there, and we're still holding his term. Gentlemen, either his term should have been lifted or we have no right to, behold, for almost two years, an MP, two years, we entered the second year as he was gone. Mr. Banjac, I would repeat this all the time waiting for you to tell me where the question is. Mr. Banjac, when we ask, then you're nervous, and when the other gentlemen here talk about things that have nothing to do with the question, you let them go. Don't do that, Mr. Banjac, especially don't be fascinated by things that are past.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4821	Thank you very much, sir, you seem to have not studied psychology and I understand it and, see, I'm happy when you talk, you speak nicely, quite nicely and nicely, and you think I'm nervous. No, you cheer me up when you talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4822	I thank you, Mr. Banjac, I think that this point, or parliamentary issues over this specific issue, has brought us into a new practice, which I saw in the Croatian Parliament, and they call it the current clock. It's a kind of direct communication of Parliament with the government, with the fact that here, I must admit, it's a mild grudge, we communicate with those of the government who are currently in session. Look out, gentlemen, it's not serious communication with the government. The key man for all these issues is the BiH foreign minister, not his two deputies, who, under the circumstances, are in session today, and could not be. That's the first one. Second, I repeat, and I agree with dr. By lying that ethnic torture is in the absolute representation of transnational interests through employment, through various settings, which are then, and we have the opportunity to see through so-called. srbin who were during the war in Sarajevo have come down to ethnic-party torture and have crossed all the limits of good taste for a democratic state that BiH should be. I do not dispute the 122 ethnic need for ethnic balance, but this is not ethnic balance, this is an ethnic torture of normality in a country called BiH. That's different. Third, I believe that the issue of universal ethnic schedule should not only end with the criteria of BiH's ethnicity, but also with other criteria that involve one normal country. ethnos can't be the only criterion in establishing a BiH state. He may be the easiest person to see, but he can't be the only one. Fourth, I repeat my question to the Foreign Ministry. It's got nothing to do with this. Can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in agreement with the embassies and missions of the BiH countries, do anything to give visas to BiH citizens, at least those in need of visas, and not all BiH citizens need visas for European countries, I don't know if it's known to some people, not all BiH citizens need visas for European countries, but some of us need and we're basically unequal here, and I'd like to talk about it on another occasion when we're going to see dr. Lagumdžija and I together ask questions about the basic inequality of BiH citizens in line with the ethnicity of BiH citizens and BiH citizens. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can civilise or do in agreement with foreign embassies how to issue a visa to BiH citizens, who are waiting in a civilized way, to have covered places, to have some waiting rooms, not to wait in line for a day or two, to wait for everyone in the open places, in the rain, snow, sun, city, ice, etc. because this will respond to the needs of the BiH citizens, which is one of our obligations. I already asked this question once. I did not get a response to it, and it is obvious that the interests of BiH citizens are more slowly answered than the interests of the ethnic schedule of MIP employees. And for the end of a little optimism. This was a treasure about the past. There's one thing that's completely optimistic, that I'm going to end up with. I am, even when I look negatively at that favoriteization of the ethnic schedule at the MIP, as one of the ministries, very pleased. What? There is such an interest in establishing, in this case, even if the ethnic balance in the foreign ministry, because the increased interest of employment in the foreign ministry is saying that BiH is finally moving towards what it really should be, towards the state of BiH, which will function in the future as a normal state. Some, perhaps, let me go back a little bit, the increased interest for the foreign ministry shows that finally BiH is standing on its feet and that's what's good, which should be watched after this whole debate that has a lot of things both for and against.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4823	While MP Špirić is coming out, just to say that you have forgotten our conclusion that we will have this agenda item from the 17th session, we have concluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4824	It seems to me that the song that we all learned in elementary school, we're tripping ourselves up, we're getting involved, but here, about this question we're all asking, and 123 sets of answers, there's been a lot of things that I'm, of course, agreeing with. Is it really necessary to ask someone the question compared to this data Mrs. Ana Havel made that there are 189 Bošnjak, 36 Hrvat, 16 Srbin and 37 minority foreigners in the DKPs? Only someone else has to ask, if there are still three Srbin who are controversial about Mr Silajdžić. In BiH's DKPs, there are below 5% of Srbin. Should someone really be asking a question, I agree with Mr. Rasim Kadić, when he says this is about some ethnic torture. As long as, gentlemen, this is not balanced, BiH will be in these troubles that we are in. You cannot ask one nation to, although we all declare BiH to be our country and allow only Bošnjak to represent it. I agree with Mr. Živalj that they fought a huge battle and I congratulate them on the result, but it's my question. Have RS representatives passed the exam in this Council of Ministers, no. In four years, to fight for 16 people in the DKPs and, if the exact constitutional clause is one-third and two-thirds, it was supposed to be at least 100 people. Of course, I don't mind that all 300 others, therefore, are to break the dilemma of whether or not someone is strictly counting these or those, there are constitutional provisions. Did you really need to tell us now the story of a painful struggle, the establishment of DKPs where there are no Srbin or below 5% of them, and to call it an ethnic principle, how it is a national torture, how this is and how it is, and not to ask the question of who made the torture? It's really a classic replacement, and I think she's lost the point of every discussion. However, I want to draw attention, and I think it's precisely time to ask a question, I don't know if I'm going to get an answer, although I agree with Mr Lagumdžija, that it was a long time ago, and I think it's twice in the last session that asked me a question, today there's no answer to what's going on with MP Đedović and why one political party or option has no MP, assuming that it should have been done, etc., and where the OSCE's policy has been to take care of every MP whose parliamentary mandate has been verified. But you know what it is, too. Don't think BiH citizens don't know that, in a conflict between two political options, one man lies for a year or two days because it's the ruling option that put him in jail and not to get out of jail. Last time he was on the co-chair to answer me. I don't know if any of the co-chairs asked what was going on. Now I want the question to be specific, so it remains the current question, I haven't got the answer. Turkey's protest note, due to the establishment of diplomatic relations between BiH and Cyprus, has, at the very least, a strange argument that Turkey supported BiH during the war, the claim is incorrect and not responsible for historical truth and political reality. The goal of the protest note is to stress that BiH's current political, state-owned continuity of the RBiH, which existed during the war and which, by signing the Dayton Peace Agreement, is at least re-communicated in terms of the existence of two entities, the RS and the Federation of BiH. During the war in BiH, the people of Kipra selflessly assisted the Serb people in RS, therefore, in BiH, sending huge amounts of humanitarian aid, especially medicines and the entire medical team. That is how kipar, and especially its people, has significantly helped to create Dayton BiH, the way it works today. That is why I ask the Komsija, or the BiH Foreign Policy Committee, to review this situation and to give us an answer or conclusion on establishing diplomatic relations with Cyprus. Thank you very much. You don't have to do it today. You can do it on the next one.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4825	I question the BiH presidency's responsibility in an offensive statement that Brcko is excluded under the Chetnik paw. Please, there are 28,000 Srbin exiles in Brcko from the Federation of BiH. It is not right for such statements to come from the top summit of all the peoples of BiH, as BiH's chairman. I welcome Mr. Skopljak with the initiative to stop insulting ourselves. The most offensive comes from an insult to all, which are representatives of the Bosniak people. They are offended, gentlemen, by the texts in the schools written by Nobel laureate Ivo Andrić, on texts written by writer Petar Petrović Njegoš and so on, and we should not be offended by such large insults and statements. Please, and I'm joining these initiatives to stop being offensive.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4826	My fellow MPs, since it doesn't seem to really matter, it's not a question, I had a short replica. I gave up once, and now I don't think it would make sense for me to give up again. In replication, my colleague Lagumdžija mentioned political culture and habits. I must admit that by his first date here, when he came out to ask the question, I was surprised and struck by the way he asked the question, that is, by the tone of asking the questions, which took a very long time and which kept including, the minors every sentence began to I will, I will, in a manner of categorical imperative, which is not a formula for asking questions. That's one remark, let me say. I have no intention of pollemizing or reopening the polemics now, I repeat this because my colleague Lagumdžija further mentioned, one, too, I find it inappropriate to ask who determines, simplifying, of course, the national structure in the MIP. I mean, who's the one who can get involved in national structures at all? I mention this because for the first time today I wanted to replicate and I reacted inappropriately and apologized to my colleagues in the BiH Parliament, including my fellow Špirić, when counterpart Špirić said now it doesn't matter what occasion, no one in RS will accept this or that. Of course, I have a cousin and a friend in the RS who I know did not empower a fellow Špirić to speak for them, nor to prescribe for them what they will accept or will not accept. In the end, there are two MPs sitting here from the RS. That's why I reacted the way I reacted and apologized to my colleagues, but it also bothered me with the question of my colleague Lagumdžija in the sense of who he was, I got the impression that this question was directed, following these sharp formulations of questions, which was not a question, but I will, I will, I will, I will, I will, I will direct to the Foreign Ministry. This BiH, as it is, but has elected representatives of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4827	The man asks. I think you understood. Then you didn't listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4828	Dear colleagues, quite naturally, I will ask the extent to which Mr. Neimarlija asked. Mr. Neimarlija, since you called me directly into your question as you say. The political culture and habits I referred to referred to were to Mr Silajdžić and I fully understand that you found yourself required in front of 125 CD Coalition, in which together you, as SDA, and Mr Silajdžić, were in front of the Party for BiH, since you found yourself obliged to, as an ideologist of that CD Coalition, or I don't know what, answer on behalf of Mr Silajdžić. So I addressed him with political culture and habits, and apparently this applies to you, not only because you needed to respond. To yours, I don't know, that I don't use the dictionary that you used, to your astonishment for mine, and I will, I don't know what you're wondering, Mr. Neimarlija, I've made a request that I want something, at the point of parliamentary questions and MP questions, and they serve because someone wants something, so he asks. I asked the MP's question, and it was quite logical, and you're right, I asked it imperatively, and I want to tell you one more time, you're not here to represent the people. You belong to the people I belong to, but neither you nor I are representatives of the people. We are not here as representatives of the people. We are not elected as representatives of the people here, but as people in the BiH Parliament and since you wonder why I will and will, I repeat to you that I am again consterned, and for the third time I want to get an answer from the foreign ministry gentlemen. Who let them count the employees in the buildings? They'll have to answer as much as you're surprised. I really want to. I have a right to that. I fully understand that you apologized to Mr Špirić, and you should apologize to him, probably for attacking him over the table, and perhaps your apology is the introduction to ask him not to replicate again and in any case you succeeded. Mr. Špirić doesn't seem to be replicating you, you'll be happy with them mutually.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4829	Now Mr. Neimarlija will ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4830	I'll fix the quote. I didn't mention one moment, I didn't introduce myself as a representative of the people, nor did I perform in that capacity.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4831	Thank you very much. I think that's enough with the questions. Hold on to these two more sentences. I thank you for your patience and your attention. As of today, the next session is led by Mr. Skopljak, and I wish him much happiness and success, and this concludes the 17th session. The seat is closed at 7:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-02-15-0.u4832	You'll get a good time in writing, I hope.
