ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u540	Delegates, honored guests, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to delegates today's session, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, OSCE representatives, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of public information funds were invited. All those present, who have responded to the call for today's session, I warmly welcome and thank you for their presence. Today's session is attended by ten delegates, of which 3 from the Serb people, 4 from the Bosniak people and 3 from the Croatian people. Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Momir Malić, Ristan Ristić and Zoran Marić justified the absences of today's session. Since I have a quorum, so, with these delegates missing from today's session, we can work and decide fully. Let me just have one brief explanation, so, onward, at the beginning of our work today. For the 19th meeting of the House of Peoples of BiH, you have been given the agenda, given that certain changes have occurred in the meantime, I propose that we make adjustments to the proposed agenda, for the decision and conclusion of the Representative's Council, concerning one of the proposed points of the agenda, which you received in the call, I propose that we leave out until the next session of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and BiH, while, after the conclusion of the Representative's House, the BiH Presidency does not declare this because such a conclusion of the Representative's Council is related to this item of the agenda. At the same time, I propose to include the agenda for today's session of two new points and this is the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House and the Proposal for a programme of work of the House of Peoples. The proposer for these two points is the College of the House of Peoples. The draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the College adopted at the 12th session. The proposals of the Rules of Procedure and the Work Programme have been shared before the beginning of this session. 2 Given the above, I suggest the next agenda, so we should make a statement about that. 1. The adoption of the 18th session of the House of Nations; 2. Draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, MPs Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović; 3. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Work programme of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 5. Delegating questions I'm opening a discussion on a draft agenda, please. Any other suggestions, opinions, Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u542	I'd just like a little bit. [[Speaks from the site and partially hears exposure]] Basically, I agree with the agenda, but this fifth point, I think we have delegates, and I think in addition to the question, we have the right to start initiatives. The final point of being the Legislative Issues and Initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u543	Is anyone still picking up? There isn't. I ask you to plead for this proposed agenda, with these corrections, that is, with these additions. Please, who is for this proposed agenda and with this correction, the addition, proposed by Mr. Pajić. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find it unanimous, so with 10 votes for the proposed agenda in this form. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 18th session of the House of Peoples I am opening a debate. Is anyone picking up on this part of the agenda? Any objections to a copy of the record, suggestions, additions, changes? As far as I can tell, there isn't, please let us make a statement, so, about the 18th session record. Who's for a record like this, which you got in writing, at the 18th session? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, unanimously, with 10 votes to be adopted. 3 Ad.2. A draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH, promoters, MPs Nikola Špirić and Ibrahim Đedović, I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u544	Madam Presidents, gentlemen, I am in principle in favour of this draft law on the financing of political parties, I would only comment on Article 3, paragraph 5, where the sources of funding are spoken of, and that the profit from the company's income, that the political party may have an enterprise, but that it can exclusively deal with activities related to culture or publishing activity. I think that this should be corrected, because if the party only deals with what is here, it simply could never be profitable in these times, and I believe that such a company would never be profitable and I think that it should not be limited by the company owned by the party to deal only with publishing activities, but rather that this spectrum of activity should be extended. It does not have to include certain external transactions, but on the inside, I think a number of other activities in the company owned by the party in order to make legal and legal profits, and thus make it easier to finance the political party. In that sense, I support this law, but I suggest that this amendment be made as I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u545	Is anyone still answering, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u546	Mr. President, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would like to say that it is a good thing that efforts to regulate the issue of funding of political parties by law, according to my free assessment, is a solid working version of the document that seeks to regulate this matter, however, I do have several suggestions, on the basis of what Mr. Živković was talking about. In fact, every serious firm assumes serious financial flows, meaning a broad spectrum, transparently set, in terms of input, outputs, means financial capital in the function of financing political parties. In that sense, this Article 3 I would comment on and put one proposal on the position, if I have made a good note on this other side, Article 3(3), when it comes to membership, it is not questionable that membership is determined by the political party, however, I think that membership must be regulated by one position, a regulated membership-gathering mechanism, leaving the possibility of free expression of the will of members of the political party in which they want that membership to be collected, whether by one administrative instrumentation or on the basis of free payment at the registers, etc. I think this would be one contribution to more secure financing and the continuity of raising 4 funds to fund political parties. Maybe he's not that big, significant, but I think he makes sense. Secondly, this next position, item 4. If we look closely, I think we should set up a more flexible approach here, where it speaks 20%, so the rest where it goes, I don't think we should limit it to percentages, but we should go to the percentage of the separation of the activity from points 3 and 5 for charity. So the percentage of the separation. Why I'm saying that, exactly what Mr. Živković was talking about. If there is a possibility that the political party is engaged in certain activities, if these activities are in a position to employ an army of unemployed people and if we have, I say, a certain means that we can put into office, then we create an assumption that we put resources into office, to hire people. Third, let's make it happen, let me say, and the fiscal effects, very interesting for the socio-political communities, where it happens. Otherwise, it seems to me, I have a feeling that they defaminate points 2 and 1 and 4 positions, item 1 in terms of contributions and budget financing, although later or later we have categories of limitation, in a certain way, related to these allocations. The next thing I would really like, in Article 4, the last position, when speaking the work that a member of the political party is doing in the party is basically unpaid work. I'd really like to be explained, which means working in the party is basically unpaid work. I want basically unpaid work. Why? Whether it means political work, if it means political work, it could be the subject of discussion and debate, but you will allow me to have professional, professional affairs in the party. If we look at only the provisions of Article 11 that speak there now about financial management of records, etc., accounts and everything else that is subject to review by the Election Commission, etc., then I think we need to give an answer, whether these are political parties, or that excludes that part of professional service, the services of a party called administrative affairs, to say financial and accounting affairs, the affairs in the field of information and information activities of the political party, the planning-analytic affairs, etc., this assumes one, however, professionalism, one profession. Next, in Article 5. The total amount of a one-time contribution, where 8 average salaries are said to be, etc., in accordance with statistical reports, I do not know what level of the political party's infrastructure organisation is related to. You'll apologize, but if you're thinking of a state here, then I find it funny, or even an entity, regional form of political party organisation, the more when it comes to contributions, the more it's said what all the contributions are. That means someone who wants to donate to a political party, let me say, one configuration of information equipment, then, the question arises whether he can do it, for reasons of limitations. I think we should think about this. And on the last page, I have two suggestions, that in this Article 15, the last sentence in paragraph 2, is deleted, because I think it's an extra sentence, it's really an extra sentence, if spoken, so now it says it doesn't cross 10,000 marks. I don't think that's necessary, because if in the previous sentence, in the same position, it's already said that it should be in article 18 in the schedule of those funds that are (determined from the basis illegally, meaning, the funds collected, the schedule is proposed). I propose here an alternative thinking in the sense that what is 70 for the assignment, for the budget financing of parliamentary groups, to be 40%, to install a new line, that 30%, however, goes to fund the organization, if they are doing charity, charity work and this 20-30% down as it is left, and the alternative to this proposal is that everything that is taken like this goes purposefully to finance projects of returning displaced, refugees and 5 expelled people. I think it would be the right thing to do in the end. If something happens, then it happens and goes where it's very reasonable to spend those funds, so, in that sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u547	I thank the gentleman, Mr. Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u548	I think we should support the bill and we need it. I think we should have tried to finance political parties, which have their representatives in the BiH Parliament, in any way through the budget, either through such a law. However, I personally think the draft law should be directed to the BiH Council of Ministers to at least give their opinion on it. Otherwise, when I voted for that fifth point of the Delegation Issues and Initiatives, I also meant the BiH Council of Ministers. It began to repeat itself, to say, a habit, that the BiH Council of Ministers was not attending meetings of the House of Peoples. I don't know how many stenograms they're going to read from the House of People's session, at least ministers, maybe some assistants or other professional workers, but I mean, I apologize, I don't see them here, they're all in the other room, but yes, there's one minister, deputy, assistant. I think those in that room could take a break and attend the House of People's sessions. Because we can conclude that we will not consider one item of the agenda, unless the proposal is present, especially if the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH is not attended by a resolution minister, i.e. his deputy or bar assistant, and I think that the BiH Council of Ministers should attend this session in the future, as is the meeting of the House of Representatives. We do not conduct such debates as the House of Representatives and I personally think it is good not to lead them, but to guide them as we lead them, I think that the House of Nations does in this way and works well and constructively, but I personally think that they should attend these meetings of members of the Council of Ministers, ministers and their deputies, because in the past, except for a few ministers, among whom they were, not now, it would be ugly, but there were several ministers who regularly attended the House of Ministers, the House of Ministers, and I mean, it is my serious substitute, that in the future they should be taken in the same way as they are present to the House of Representatives, but there were several ministers who regularly attended the House of Ministers of BiH, respectively, ministers and their deputies, and if they are not there, because I know that they are busy, but I do not all have to be able to take advantage of this moment, and I am aware of what I am aware of what I am aware of the people, and the fact that I am aware of the fact that I am aware of the fact, and the fact, that I am aware of the fact that I am aware of the fact, and the fact that I am not of the fact, that I am not of the fact, and the fact, that the fact, and the fact of the fact that I am not of the fact of the fact, and the fact that I am not of the fact that I am not of the fact of the fact, that I am not of the fact that I am going of the fact that I am going that I am not having that I am going of the fact that I am not having to the fact that I am going that I am going that I am going that I am not having to the things that I am going to the things that I am going to the things that I am going to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u549	I thank Mr Čampara, with just one note, here, that we have just received the position and opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH for this remark by Mr Čampara, but I do not think it is an extra one. I want to, and I support, and I believe the entire House of Peoples, the observation of Mr. Čampara when it comes to the 6th presence of representatives from the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I think that we can agree, in the end, this is not the first time that this House has found that he, in a certain way, looks and creates an image that has been neglected by the representatives of these BiH institutions and I can only join this proposal and the reflection of Mr. Čampara and suggest that once again the House determines and in the light of the conclusion that it is directed to the Council of Ministers of BiH that our position and the need for both the meeting and the meetings of this council to be attended by representatives, meaning, and the Council of Ministers of BiH, whether it will be ministers or deputies. I think we can even send it to the BiH presidency, because there have been such findings and objections when it comes to the BiH presidency, that is, their presence or their representatives from these sessions. Is anyone else picking up?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u550	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I, here's exactly what Mr. Čampara and Mr. Ljubičić were talking about, I wanted to touch that question as well in my discussion. I support absolutely this idea that the House of Order sessions need and must be attended by legislators from the Council of Ministers' Council, where they propose, two initiatives come from the BiH presidency and members of the presidency, etc. So that's what I was going to say in the end, but here, when that question was touched, I absolutely support it, and that was something I wanted to talk about. When it comes to this draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH. It is indisputable that the law should be passed and the issue of political parties regulated by law, so that there is no will, wandering, abuse, etc. by political parties and parties, but, well, I'd have a few questions, but I can see there's no one here from the promoter. I don't know if anyone's gonna be able to give me an answer from the College of this home, but, look, I'm gonna ask those questions, so let me get this straight. First, on this first page I see the signature of the representatives of 15 political parties and parties who have given consent, I don't know if it's consent or what, on the draft of this law, the signatures of fifteen representatives of 15 political parties, but, here, I first have a comment on that part, because not all political parties are represented in the agreement to draft a bill on the financing of political parties. Here, there are party signatories that don't even have their representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and the parties that have their representatives in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are left out. That's one of the first remarks. Second, here, from Article 2 below, Article 2, and in particular Articles 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, etc. The draft law, apparently, was based on the BiH Election Law Draft. Because, let me, the BiH Election Law Draft, which has not yet been adopted, mentions the BiH Election Commission, the Appellate Council, etc. So, the BiH Election Law has not yet been adopted, and here, the Electoral Law establishes certain positions in the draft law on the financing of political parties. I don't know now, that's what I said to all the members I mentioned, mentioning the responsibility of the BiH Election Commission and its authority under the draft of this law. 7 I think it was more logical to first pass BiH's Election Law, and only then to pass this law, this bill, or if the Law on the financing of political parties is to be passed before the election law is passed, then all of these members must be expelled from the Election Commission of BiH and an Interim Election Commission or someone else who decides on all issues of election preparation and implementation. That's one of my basic questions. So, if, most importantly, this law with these items cannot be passed before the Election Law or if it is to be passed, this law, before the Election Law, to delete all that is written by the Election Commission to put the Interim Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u551	I thank Mr. Pajić. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? If not, allow me, I think this question that Mr. Pajić has asked deserves an answer, but I just don't know who can now answer this question that Mr. Pajić has asked. As for the signatories and representatives of the parties who are on this... I have no response to this Djoko subquestion, and as far as further objections are concerned, I would just like to point out that I am joining these discussions and these considerations, and if there are no more debaters, I would suggest a conclusion. I think we can suggest a conclusion on these agenda points, respecting the discussions, proposals and reflections of the debates that have applied, means that they participated in this discussion. I suggest the next conclusion. A draft law on the financing of political parties in BiH is being adopted. The draft law can serve as the basis for the draft law. I also suggest that all of these discussions from the debaters in writing be provided to the professional service so that, in the form of amendments, the promoter may receive your proposals, your remarks and the obligation of the promoter to take into account the observations, the suggestions that you have made. Is there any other proposal for a conclusion? Who is to suggest such a conclusion regarding this second item of the agenda? Unanimity. I find, with 10 votes, this proposal was accepted. This is a suggestion, I thank Mr. Jadranko, I think, although we haven't spoken about it, so I think the observation and the finding stands, and this is what Mr. Čampara was talking about, in part joined and made clear his position, Mr. Pajić, I have also made one comment, and I think we all agree, when it comes to the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives on behalf of the BiH presidency or members of the BiH presidency to the meetings or meetings of the House of People. So just to say once again, that's the attitude of the House of Peoples, we ask each other to comply with these demands. Ad.3. Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I am opening a principle debate on this agenda point. When I propose changes and additions to the daily, gentlemen, I have made one brief note, I don't think I need to repeat it again, with just one finding, I think we are aware of all the obligations and the need to adopt the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. I'm opening a debate, so go ahead. Well, then let me suggest a conclusion on this agenda point. I suggest the next conclusion. They will delegate within three days, so we give you the opportunity, which means, when you read the more detailed proposed Rules of Procedure, by Monday, 10 July 2000, they will deliver to the College of the People's House of Amendment in writing. The College will declare amendments for the 20th session and prepare its Rules of Procedure for adoption. Also, I propose, because of the obligations and deadlines, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, I immediately schedule the 20th session today and suggest that it be on Tuesday 11th of July with the beginning of 10 o'clock, where at that session we would only have one item on the agenda, which is debate and adoption, I hope, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So, what Mr. Žigić suggests to me, only the written amendments will the College discuss and plead and have its position. Any other suggestions? Is this conclusion accepted, the proposal of this conclusion, and at the same time to plead immediately for this next session, that this is exactly how it was proposed? Any other suggestions, opinions, conclusions? If there isn't, please let us make a statement, who's for this conclusion, and it means that the 20th session is scheduled for 11 July with the beginning at 10 o'clock. I agree, unanimously and this conclusion has been accepted. Ad.4. Proposal for a programme of work at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I wouldn't take up your time, just let it be brief. All that is in this proposal for a program that you received, so before today's session started, it was also adopted at the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives has entered some more points that MPs have proposed and have become an integral part of the Work Programme. The adoption and acceptance of the Work Programme at the very session of the House of Representatives means, which was introduced, which was adopted, not included in this proposal that you received because of the short time and appointment of this session today. In the proposal for a programme of work of the House of Peoples, we only propose that it be a practical part of the Programme of Work of the House of Peoples, with certain additions and needs, if necessary. I am opening a discussion on this agenda point, with a note, too, when it comes to the Programme of Work of the House of Peoples that it was one of our obligations long ago to adopt this programme, even though we had, in practice, a lot of materials that we could work on and we should work on, but we all know the situation why it is the way it is. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up on this part of the agenda? If not, let me suggest a conclusion. 9 I suggest the next conclusion. The People's House Work Programme for 2000 is being adopted in the same text as at the House of Representatives, with Minister Kurtović's initiatives becoming an integral part of the work programme if they are proposed by the Council and accepted by the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think it's known, I don't know if there's any need to explain, so this initiative by Mr. Kurtović, which was proposed on the Council of Representatives, that it was accepted by the Representative Council and what I just said and in this proposal for a conclusion, I suggest that in the same text, practically, we accept this programme. I would like to point out, I do not think it is excessive, that this programme is not rigid, therefore, depending on the need and obligations, if a commitment is made, so we accept that there can also be a correction of this work programme that we should do at the next session, practically, to fully accept. Is there any other proposal for a conclusion? Who's to put a conclusion like this, so when it comes to the Work Programme? Against, abstaining, there is no, I find that the proposed conclusion was unanimously accepted and that the Work Programme of the House of Nations was adopted. Thank you. Ad.5. Delegative issues, and as we have spoken, and the initiatives of the delegates, on the proposal of Mr Pajić
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u552	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask one question, which was recently analysed, too, to answer me, who is a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, who are biographies of the Council of Ministers, and simply to get information, this home to get information about the BiH Council of Ministers. We have so far not received any official information on the election of a member of the BiH Council of Ministers. I speak as a member of the College, and probably not you as delegates of this house. I want to join those discussions they discussed about the BiH Council of Ministers, that it is a shame that no one from the Council of Ministers attends at the first possible session of the House, from new members of the Council of Ministers. This clearly speaks of the BiH Council of Ministers and their relationship against this home. We have repeatedly appealed from here, prayed for people to come, as legislators, even though the law on behalf of the Council of Ministers, to defend these laws in front of this home, however, except for rare exceptions, mostly the same persons from the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, other people did not appear here, other officials of this country, in front of this home, in which important issues such as laws, decisions, etc. should be decided. I think we should break up with that practice. I don't have to read the paper to know who my member of the BiH Council of Ministers is. No institution, I repeat, has informed in any form this home, to find out who these people representing BiH are in that form as the Constitution says, and that is the Council of Ministers. 10 Finally, whether or not it is in accordance with the Constitution of the Constitution of the Council of Ministers, I am not questioning whether or not it is, but I simply want to know, because we voted here equally on the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, on which basis it was formed, or, that is, established. I mean, that's enough talking about the relationship opposite this home. And that practice needs to be interrupted. I would like to add another conclusion, that this House will not discuss any draft laws without a proposing or, if the proposal comes, the Council of Ministers of BiH, without the presence of the minister carrying the portfolio. It is a minimum in order to, in some ways, get the speakers from the BiH Council of Ministers, because with this practice, if it continues, then we will only be here where we will support what is already agreed, where we will simply raise our hands and end up in that way. That's not the role of this house, not according to the Constitution, not by, we'll see, the new Rules of Procedure, it's a completely different position of this home. And for that, indeed, I am expressing my protest, first of all, that I am not informed as a member of this House or who the Council of Ministers is, or when elected, I am not formally informed, and let alone who these people are, at least physically recognize them when I see them on the means of information or at least in the city when I meet them that they are members of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u553	I thank Mr. Žigić. I propose right away, concerning the discussion and search and protest of Mr Žigić, firstly that for the next session we get exactly what Mr Žigić asked for, concerning the composition and characteristics of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think we can get this, at the suggestion of Mrs Rajka, we can already get the next session we have scheduled, so within our previous conclusion. I suggest...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u554	Speaks from the place and is partially heard I think that Jadranko... The Bureau would only have the power to propose a mandater and it was proposed by the mandater, and the Tuševljak all the rest and let them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u555	If the BiH presidency informs us that it has appointed the chairman, then we will ask the chairman who suggested him, but we do not know that he is the chairman at all. Let's take it in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u556	Both.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u557	I propose that, just after this observation by Mr. Žigić and his asked question, that our position is going, in part, towards the BiH presidency, another part to go towards the chairman, according to the Council of Ministers, means that we get that answer and 11 Second, only to find another protest by Mr. Žigić, concerning the presence of the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, this, in practice, simply fits into the previous discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u558	Gentlemen, to the delegates of this high house, I have an initiative to conclude that I will finally make a proposal to declare this high house, which I will finally explain. Let's just say, I'll read it. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the House of Peoples, Sarajevo, 6.7.2000, the head of the OSCE mission and the chairman of the Interim Election Commission for BiH. A proposal for a conclusion. In order to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, as well as the equality of all three constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH, and all in the role of ensuring the implementation of free and democratic general elections in BiH, announced for 11 November 2000 by the OSCE Mission and the Interim Election Commission for BiH, we ask: 1. That all political parties and parties, which are in BiH, which are properly and under the applicable legal regulations registered with competent courts, are allowed to go to the upcoming general elections in BiH, and provided that they have submitted applications and all documents provided for by the Interim Election Commission rules and regulations. 2. That the OSCE Mission withdraws an announced ban on going to the upcoming general elections by individual political parties and parties and their members, without any argument that they work and act beyond the interests of the people of BiH and violate the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 3. By accepting this conclusion, the OSCE Mission, along with all BiH institutions and its entities, would contribute significantly to the improvement of basic human rights and freedoms in BiH, as one of the preconditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. An explanation To the address, now it doesn't matter which political parties in RS, on 19 June 2000, came a memo from the OSCE mission office and the chairman of the Interim Election Commission for BiH, asking the party to change its entire leadership and the party's name as a prerequisite for going to the upcoming general elections in BiH, without any explanation of such a decision. The party concerned in RS has been properly registered with the RS competent court in 1996, for the first time, meaning, and has so far participated in the general elections in BiH in 1996 and 1998, in the snap elections for the RS Parliament in '97. the year, as well as the local elections in 1997, organised under the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission. 12 By prohibiting participation, without any reason, this party and its members, the OSCE, the OSCE and the Interim Election Commission would violate the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, the basic provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and would lead to an unequal position of a constituent people in BiH, whose at least one third of the voting bodies, by such a decision, would be excluded from the voting process. Under such conditions, surely, the upcoming general elections would be neither free nor democratic. Dear gentlemen, this would be a proposal for a conclusion that I appreciate that this high home should accept, as it is one of the basic functions of this home and the protection of basic human first and freedom of all the peoples of BiH and all the citizens of BiH. It is illogical, gentlemen, to ban one party and individual parties, it is contrary to all applicable norms, international norms, from going to elections, because one of the basic human rights is to participate in elections, to have an active and passive voting right. With this decision, if we support it today, we could do what Mr. Žigić talked about to show if we are the home whose role is as it is written in the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, or whether we are just ordinary pawns in someone's hands. I think that we should raise the dignity of this home to a higher level and that we are making decisions on issues of vital interest for all three peoples of BiH, which other institutions in BiH will have to respect. Once again, it is illogical for individual parties or individuals to be banned from going to the polls, especially if we have open lists where voters will eliminate both parties and individuals working past the interests of the people and the state in the elections themselves. Therefore, there is nothing to prejudge in advance, but to leave the people, citizens, voters to decide and they will say in the elections which are individuals and parties that do not represent the interests of the people and the state, their votes, without giving votes to such people and parties, will eliminate both such people and such parties from the political scene in BiH. That's it, gentlemen. I would suggest that we make this conclusion clear, on the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u559	I thank Mr. Pajić. Here you go. Is anyone picking up? I apologize, Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u560	I would at this point be talking about something that is trying to be treated as a question of a local community, however, the activities that have been led so far suggest that this is really not a problem of the local community, that it is a much more complex and complex problem, and above all I mean the obvious, but a long-standing fact of existence, in the Maglai municipality, of a local paratrooper in the village of Bočinje, which, as a paradisaic, made, among other things, hostages and Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. When I say this, I want to say that exactly the inability to involve the relevant institutions of Canton and the Federation of BiH, in the concentration circles, 13 implies a stalemate in returning to this area and, mathematically, quite certainly tens of thousands of people. I would like to stress that from the basis of my activity, as MEPs in the ZE-DO Canton Assembly, on several occasions, behind the pay phone, I have requested the inclusion of the Government of the ZE-DO Canton in resolving the issue of the Bosniaks and the mujahedin community in this area, however, the Government of Canton was not considered to be called or invited to engage in an active relationship to address this issue. In this regard, certain contacts have been reached between Mr Klajn, OHR and the Government of the Federation of BiH, which, until this moment, despite the deadlines given in six months, have not expressed its determination to address this issue and has been quite constructive on this very important issue. I would like to stress that this is not about the refugee community, the displaced people, this is about a community that is in its own time, 1995, installed in the pure Serbian settlement of Bocinj, which is affected by the area and the village of Bakotic, and that the existence of such a political community, certainly political damage, not only to the local community and the region of Canton, but also much wider, and that it consistently implies, first of all, measures by the international community, which are condescending, meaning, in terms of sanctions in this area. I appreciated, given the activities that have been conducted, that this is the place and that this is quite a state issue, the Bosnian Herzegovic issue, that it should be articulated here – it must be presented, for the reason that this issue must indeed be resolved by law and legal procedures. It cannot continue to insist on violating property laws and its resolution should be provided without conflicting approaches. When I say this, I want to stress that here it is working to threaten the return project, not only of the Serb population in this area, but of returning and Bosniak-Croatian residents to the Doboj area, Teslic, Modrice, and then, concentratedly, pulls one another. On the other hand, a declaration signed by Mr Schwarz-Švarc-Šiling, which envisioned the region's commitments to address this issue, was questioned. The next thing we need to point out is that this issue really affects the question of human rights and freedoms and, among other things, the principle of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. To repeat once again, it directly threatens the implementation of the Law on property relations and the issue of return. In that sense, I would like to stress that I have relevant data here and information that this is about 89 families, not heads, which are from BiH, or from 26 BiH municipalities, of which 19 from the Federation of BiH, one from Brcko District, four from the RS and two unknowns. Between 50 and 60 people are citizens of BiH, with so-called the citizenship of BiH. Of these, they are from 18 countries of African origin, excluding two of which are from Luxembourg and one from Switzerland. In that sense, I would like to stress here that, since we have a law establishing the Council of Ministers of BiH, since we have the Minister and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I am using the opportunity behind this speaker to send a request and an initiative, regretting that there is no such thing as here, what we talked about, no one from the 14 resolution ministries, that there is no representative, I am sorry if there is, but I do not see a representative of the international community, this is a very large and serious issue, and I am pleased that the representatives of the media are here and I hope that a stenogram of what I was talking about will come to you tomorrow, but in that sense I would also set up an initiative and demand for the BiH Council of Ministers, particularly the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, to be directly involved in solving the problem of the Bosniaks. Domestic residents, temporarily resident in Bočinj, destination to the places from which they came, and came from Zepč, Zavidović, Travnik, Zenice, Kaknja, etc. For BiH citizens of foreign origin and foreigners, this ministry to carry out checks on the validity of these people's stay in BiH, to verify whether they are from Interpol, whether they are convicted in their countries, those who do not meet, from the point of view of the law, that... countries and to provide for those who have legality and legitimacy, in terms of citizenship, destinations according to the dispersion system. In co-ordination with the Federation of BiH government, the resolution ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers provide for the implementation of a already developed programme and a dynamic plan to address this issue, respecting the law and legal procedures and ensuring the unconflict resolution of this issue in the region. To ensure and take over, to say co-ordination with the Government of the ZE-DO Canton to address this very large and important issue, to strengthen the activity towards the international community in order to provide support for the Balkan problem-solving project and the temporary residents in this village. In that sense, I really demand and demand that by the next session I be informed in writing and informed of the plan envisioned by the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry to do so to address this problem and that what is in particular, I do not now think until this session, until Tuesday, it is inconclusive, but until some next session, perhaps in early September, to be informed about what has been done specifically on the solution, in coordination, of this very, very complex issue. A little longer, I apologize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u561	I thank Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u562	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, today, probably like everyone else, I've received one report and I'm not quite clear on that report. The title is: BiH, Parliamentary Assembly, Foreign Affairs Commission. I don't know what that means. What is the commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is called the Foreign Affairs Commission, and who makes this commission, who are the members of this committee? Furthermore, in this document, i.e. the report, first I did not get it in Croatian, which is another remark from the Ministry of this House, and it seems that we delivered this document to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we are part of the 15th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and it says below that it was delivered to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I don't know why we don't have on this protocol mark that it's the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Peoples, or, another such mark where the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives, would write, because I can't read here when this House was protocold by this document, however, it says here that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has protocold it 8.6. I am increasingly convinced that that home wants to be the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that it wants this home, Malta, and it does not. I read here that some delegation, now I can't say again which, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian National Assembly, within the next month, probably agreed to make a return visit. This would sign an agreement on the formation of a working group of two parliaments. Who arranged this with the Committee on Foreign Policy? I know from well-informed sources that this is not an agreement with the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian National Assembly, but with the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly. Therefore, it is not agreed with the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian National Assembly, nor does it exist again, as neither does the title, as neither does the Foreign Affairs Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. There are two homes in the Croatian National Assembly, as there are in this Parliamentary Assembly. However, it seems that both parliamentary homes act as if there are only them and that they are the Croatian National Assembly, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and they will form a working group of two parliaments, without asking the House of Peoples about it, and I have information that the County House of the Croatian National Assembly did not ask. My question is College, when is this gonna stop? When will the chairman and two of his deputies take more active action? We are constantly talking at work meetings that this house, at the very least, is equal to the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but in practice it is not. We get all the documents, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on every envelope I have the mark of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and we have a nice memorandum, BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Peoples. It seems that this postmark is more about Sarajevo than about the House of Peoples. So we all know that BiH's headquarters is in Sarajevo, but I don't see this stamp of the House of Peoples, and I ask, if I may, of the College to clear these relations, to answer, here, if not the whole House, then to me personally, who are the members and what is the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and all this is in this memo. Of course I'd like, if that's possible, for the College to send us a copy of Professor Dr. Tomac's Zdravko and to see who that invitation was made to, because the composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation's House of Representatives, as it says here, is very significant to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u563	I thank Mr. Zorić, Mr. Čampara. Before Mr. Čampara takes his word, just let me, in the name of the College, fully accept, and I personally think, and here is the College, let the other members of the College be made known about your objection and I think it is in place. I would like to inform you that the College has already seen what you have seen and that we have already raised that question on two occasions, i.e., we have tried to find ourselves and we have opened this issue to the College and 16 Your remarks are in place and I, please, immediately propose to your remark, on your request one conclusion. I'm asking the professional service, so this particular question of yours is now trying to prepare an answer, so for one of these next sessions, as soon as possible. I personally think, and that is the position of the College, that there is a need to open up the debate and deal with the College of the Representative Council, precisely on this subject that you have discussed. I fully support your objection and your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u564	I want to refer to this question, I think that I and Vinko may have a little talk about it, and since I am the chairman of the committee in the House of Peoples, before visiting our delegation to Zagreb, I was called by the Ambassador of the Republic of Croatia and asked me what committees exist. I responded nicely to the ambassador that there are two commissions in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. One committee of the House of Representatives and another committee of the House of Peoples and told him, the truth on the phone we talked about, how many members the commission numbers. Later, I heard that at a meeting of the House of Representatives Commission a delegation was set to go to Zagreb. Of course, when I heard that and when I got the names, I had nothing against any man, nor the name, that I responded immediately and asked for an ambassador of Croatia, he was on vacation, but I heard from a woman, whether she was a lady or a missus, who replaced the ambassador and who told me that she would inform the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, or Mr. Prof. Dr. Tomac. I asked for a memo again later, and then I was there and I stopped, which was by Professor Dr. Tomac, and as far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that this invitation is addressed to the House of Representatives. A similar situation, I think, is similar, but not quite like that, occurred during a visit to Slovenia, and there have been attempts to act as if the Commission of the House of Representatives, as if we do not exist. I also answered in writing to Mr Dokić and said that we disagreed with such a way and that every delegation that goes before the BiH Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, must be composed of both representatives of the House of People and of the Representatives of the House of Representatives, and I would also, since I have responded so far and in writing, ask that the College in the first session conclude that visits to parliaments of other countries cannot be determined just as well and that there must be an agreement to be a joint delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, both at home. Whether it's the same number or not, about that, but to be a joint agreement, and that I'm not going to say it now, I was even a little rougher and said that in that delegation, from one, to say the biggest... in BiH, it's not the biggest one, but it is the biggest of the people, it is not, at least as far as I was informed, not a single member of that delegation and I said that it is incomprehensible to me that they set up such a delegation in the House of Representatives and that you know that I have talked about it, but that my reaction has failed, but that my reaction has failed, so I join Vinko that the College, at one of the first next sessions, concludes, not to talk, but to conclude that I can't go to any other state, without agreeing both homes and representatives of both homes, whether the College, either committees both at home, and then, in this sense, we won't have any problems, and I support.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u565	I thank Mr. Čampara, Mr. Tošić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u566	Oh, I, Mr. Chairman, will just say for a moment, all these technical questions are about our home and the sekretarijat. We have criticised today that there is no one from the Council of Ministers, I claim that they do not even know that we have a session here today and cannot Mr. Tuševljak dream absolutely now, because at the same time he has scheduled his session of the Council of Ministers, so our secretariat must in some way inform and know the Council of Ministers, but I argue that these people will not be deaf about our home, because he is equal to the House of Representatives. In my opinion, our college and the secretariat must especially..., here I am now arguing that they do not have a call for today's session. They don't even know what's going on here. Therefore, I personally believe that we have invited them to present themselves, so that these people, by their own vote, would absolutely accept it and agree here with us. I suggest that our college schedule a meeting or even on Tuesday, if that is possible, or that we officially hold a conversation with the Council of Ministers, because we are on the same task in this and they are now a new composition, extended by three ministries, means that in that section, absolutely, according to our competences, they are required and I think they will be present. I also think that the sekretarijat of our home had to inform the College about the call for the Croatian Parliament, where it was absolutely possible to balance that presence, because I think that one home without another does absolutely not make the BiH Parliament, that only the complete ones can conduct quality talks or, in some ways, establish true co-operation. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u567	I thank Mr. Tošić, Mr. Jadranko.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u568	I'd just like to answer Mr. Tošić. The same day the calls were made to the delegates, calls were also sent to the BiH Bureau members and calls were sent to the BiH Council of Ministers. They're not names, because we didn't have complete names. I'm responsible for saying that it's been sent. I'm also telling you, here, Mr. Šoljić's secretary can confirm that they called from Mr. Raguž's office that they don't have materials for this session and that I'm materials, we asked only for their courier to come, they came for the materials, I gave the material for this session in all three languages. However, I did not give them for the Rules of Procedure and for the Work Programme, because it was a completely different agenda. And as for the Secretariat, let me tell you, the service of this people's home, it's only three people, and that's me, as a secretary, as a secretary, and one person we don't have, who's going to be working on preparing sessions and keeping records. As far as these other visiting materials are concerned, I have recently told you, Mr. Ljubičić and when there was one big problem with one delegation, there was also Mr. Skopljak, I certainly tell you that I was not 90 percent informed at all where and what. I said, and now I'm telling you in front of the House, that I'm going to ask for it in writing, and I'm going to really ask for it in writing, hopefully with the support of all of you, that all the materials that are being delivered to the delegates to go through me, and I'm also asking you to give me that 18 of you give me that support that other people don't need to inform you at all, and that they're going to be exposed to meetings and past me sitting here at the meeting, just as the case happened today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u569	I thank Mr. Jadranko, I suggest right here that we be effective, yes, here we go from these last remarks we discussed, so we will return to the discussions of Mr. Pajić and Mr. Herceg, yes, here's the conclusion right now, I think the conclusion is clear here. First of all, I propose that this be the conclusion of the House of Peoples, that the phenomenon has been observed, means, in terms of the composition of delegations, the departure of delegations on behalf of Parliament, and that we ask the College of the Representatives to meet here and discuss this and that the practical composition of delegations on behalf of Parliament must be of one and another council. We are looking for an urgent conversation in this respect, so to bring these views and remarks into line and to respond to Mr Zorić's request, when he responded to the composition and these commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u570	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u571	That's what I thought, on your point in the first part, it means to make one such conclusion and to be the conclusion of both the House of Nations and our demand and the requirement of principles. I think we can make a statement right now. Can we get to the bottom of this right away, and then come back? Please, who's in favor of this conclusion? There's no problem, there's no government. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Is there still a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u572	All materials entering and leaving parliamentary homes must go through the secretary, or secretary. So that the secretary doesn't know what this is about, it's really...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u573	Here you go. Is there any further delegate issues and initiatives? If not, please, I think that the discussion and Mr. Pajić, mean, deserves attention to return to his request and his discussion, as he deserves that attention and discussion and the search for Mr. Herceg. Personally, I think it's both a problem and a problem, so I think it's very important, I find it very important, and I think that both issues deserve both significant attention and comment and answer, in any case, deserve. 19 I would like to ask, at the same time, Mr Pajić and Mr Herceg to have their discussion, whether it is a motion, a delegate's question or an initiative, as we have adopted this agenda in today's agenda, to deliver in written form, to formulate and deliver it to us, and I would not conclude with this debate at today's session on any of the issues opened by Mr Pajić and opened by Mr Herceg. Which means, here, I'm giving it away, if someone wants to get involved in this, and I suggest that at the same time in writing it be delivered, so let's get on with it. Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u574	So when I proposed this conclusion, I initially said it was my initiative towards this home, that this home would adopt such a conclusion. I really think, think carefully, that it really is a violation and a rude violation of basic human rights and freedom. Gentlemen, one more note. You know, under the Dayton Peace Agreement, that the OSCE and OSCE Mission and the Interim Election Commission were given to conduct the first general elections in 1996 and, under the Dayton Peace Agreement, all other elections were to follow the laws of BiH, i.e. its entities. Unfortunately, we have been led to the fact that the electoral law has not yet been passed, but we have given consent and we give it, I absolutely have nothing against, because we have no electoral law, that the OSCE and the Interim Election Commission, with the supervision of the OSCE, conduct these upcoming general elections, I have no objection, but, gentlemen, I don't think that no one has given mandate and authority to this Interim Election Commission, or I don't know who, that it violates the basic electoral rights and freedoms of the people of BiH, today it can happen to one nation, tomorrow, the other, the day, and I think it is in our interest that one such conclusion, directed towards these institutions, we try to prevent the violation of the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all the people and of BiH, that it is really our duty and our obligation to warn. I suggested at the outset that we plead, as the House, to draw this conclusion towards these institutions in order to ensure the democratic, fair, free general elections ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u575	I think that part of Mr Pajić's remarks is included under that Law on the financing of political parties in this part of the BiH Election Commission's mention, I think it was already said once, and I think that in that section, in writing, it means that amendments should be proposed to amend that law where we adopted and adopted it in the draft today, and this remains to be further discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u576	I realized Mr. Mugdin's question was that it was a delegate issue, which he referred to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons and Human Rights. That's how I understood your question. The question that Mr. Pajić said here, don't be angry, that this home makes such a conclusion as he suggested, I mean, it's neither in the jurisdiction of this house, nor this home can make such a thing, it's one thing. 20 Second, everyone has the right to their own opinion, but that the High Representative and the OSCE representative violate human rights by their non-behavior, their laws, decisions and rules, I cannot support it, at least I cannot support it. I haven't held any college meetings, and one conclusion like that can't be supported. The party, or not only the party, but the club that considers the rights at stake, has the right to appeal, not only to the OHR representative and the OSCE representative, but to have the method and right to appeal to the BiH Constitutional Court, the Human Rights House, if human rights are violated and discrimination is conducted. Therefore, one such conclusion, as Mr Pajić suggested, nor is it in the jurisdiction of this home, I think that such a conclusion this home cannot accept, and to whom you will refer this request and your opinion, is your business.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u577	I thank Mr. Čampara, is anyone still answering for the discussion? If not, allow me to make a brief comment, here is a brief consultation of us sitting here at this table, so, members of the College, respecting Mr. Pajić's reaction and proposal and discussion, respecting the comment and attitude and Mr. Čampara, I suggest, on behalf of the College, that, if we can accept this, Mr. Pajić's initiative to deliver to the House in writing, to deliver in writing to all delegates and to deliver it in writing to the relevant ministry in the Council of Ministers of BiH and to get an opinion and opinion on this matter. Is it the ministry now for human rights, this new ministry or for civil affairs, etc., to be assessed depending on the text of the initiative itself, as Mr. Pajić points out, to see, let us simply, in writing, that we have this initiative in order to be better acquainted with the delegates in writing. I appreciate, I also realized the reaction, I speak for myself, I understand Mr. Pajić's full initiative and reaction, but I suggest, however, that it be in writing, that we have this lead and that it goes towards the corresponding ministry, because we have enough of these ministries now, and I think we can find an appropriate ministry that needs to give its opinion and opinion. I respect, accept both the discussion and the other discussion, i.e. the initiative and the comment. Whether there are other suggestions for a conclusion on this initiative by Mr. Pajić. If not, please, who would like to draw such a conclusion on Mr. Pajić's initiative?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u578	And that's not it, we accept it to come in writing to Mr. Pajić at our place, and then we'll... [[Speaks from the place and is partially heard]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u579	Exactly, I think the essence of that proposal is that. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u580	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u581	I can read this memo from OHR, you'll really see that it doesn't make any sense. This home must protect all peoples in BiH, the vital interests of the people and fundamental human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u582	I can't accept it now to say that OHR violates human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u583	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u584	I think we were close through this proposal conclusion. Avdo, I'd like you to make a suggestion. Avdo, do you have a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u585	I do, if that's the conclusion, I'm against the conclusion. Mr. Pajić can speak in writing, and then we'll see what we'll do and how we'll do in the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u586	We suggest that this initiative, Mr Pajić, be delivered in writing to the House of Peoples and delivered to the Secretariat. To deliver this letter through the Secretariat to the relevant ministry and to have a position there and that means we'll evaluate it on the College when we get this on including this initiative further on the agenda and debate. Please, who's in favor of a proposal like this? Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u587	I can't explain myself by how the text is written. Let him have the right to initiative. We cannot forbid him. Let him do it. He has the right to initiative and to deliver it. It's not a conclusion, don't make me... that we've accepted such a conclusion, I don't accept.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u588	Here, briefly, let's find... 22
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u589	I think we have an obligation, if one of the MPs asks the House to declare its initiative, that we have an obligation to plead. We plead to go into procedure, to go as normal, to come in writing, to pass it on to the House, if it considers it necessary, to the competent ministry, and to get it at the next bench session. We have to answer that. This is required of the dom, the representative asks the House to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u590	A voter for, I vote...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-06-0.u591	I suggest we find a solution and I think we can, that Mr. Pajić deliver this to the House in writing, and we will continue to plead. I don't think there's any need to plead. Gentlemen, I thank you. This concludes the 19th session. The seat's finished at 13:45.
