ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u592	Dear delegates, honored guests, I am opening the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For today's session, in addition to the delegates, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PAR project, representatives of public information funds were invited. To all who responded to the call, I sincerely thank you. Today's session is attended by 11 delegates, of which 4 from the Serb people, 4 from the Bosniak people and 3 from the Croatian people, will be four after one part of our session. Mrs. Ristan Ristić, Ivo Živković and Izet Žigić justified the absence of today's session. Since we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making, I suggest we get started and get back to work. For today's session, the agenda was proposed, true, something in the modified composition again in relation to the call you received. Let me read it. 1. Verification of the delegation's mandate in the order of the Croatian people, Mr Ivan Madunić; 2. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and 3. Delegating questions and initiatives Allow me, too, before I give this proposed, updated agenda at the discussion and debate, I would like to inform the House that Mr Pajić has also given me the written form of the initiative, i.e. the motion for a resolution concerning his discussion and the proposal at the last session. As we all remember, the attitude was to get it from Mr. Pajic in writing and to get it from Mr. Pajic, which Mr. Pajić did towards me, as chairman, at a small, consulting meeting before the beginning of this session, such as practice, the College meets before the session. We were not in full shape today, because Mr. Izet Žigić is absent, as one of the members of the College and, as a College, we do not have a position now for this initiative, because we were not fully convened, but I consider it my obligation to continue working on the proposed agenda, meaning, informing the House of Initiative, that is, the motion for a resolution in writing, which was delivered to me by Mr. Pajić. 2 I am opening a discussion on the draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u593	Mr. President, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to make a few more remarks about the proposed resolution, in addition to your notice, Mr. President. You remember, at the last session of the House of Peoples, that it was agreed that for the first next session, and that is, here today, I formulate my proposal in writing. I did it. It was delivered, I mean, to all the delegates of this House of Resolution, and if you don't mind, I'd read it now, because I don't know if everyone's read that proposal, I'm not sure, but, well, since I'm proposing, I'm sorry, sir, I'm going to read it and I suggest that it be classified as the 3rd point of the agenda. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Parliamentary Assembly, People's House, Sarajevo, 11.7.2000. The head of the OSCE Mission and the chairman of the Interim Election Commission for BiH, the Human Rights House of BiH, the Human Rights Ministry, refugees and asylum BiH. A motion for a resolution on the protection of basic human rights and the freedom of BiH citizens in the area of election rights. In order to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, as well as the equality of all three constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH, and all in the function of providing and implementing free and democratic general elections in BiH, announced for 11 November 2000 by the OSCE Mission in BiH and the Interim Election Commission, we ask: 1. That all political parties and parties in BiH, which are regulated and subject to applicable legal regulations registered with competent courts, allow the upcoming general elections in BiH, provided that they have submitted applications and all documents provided for by the Interim Election Commission rules and regulations, 2. That the OSCE Mission withdraws an announced ban on going to the upcoming general elections by individual political parties and parties and their members, without any argument that they work and act beyond the interests of the people of BiH and violate the provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement. 3. By accepting this Resolution, the OSCE Mission, along with all BiH institutions and its entities, would contribute significantly to the promotion of basic human rights and freedoms in BiH, as one of the preconditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I'll just have a few notes. I here, you see, in all these proposals that I have formulated, in all cases I mention the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all BiH citizens, means BiH and all its adult citizens who have the right to vote. To enable them, on equal terms, to all BiH citizens, to go to the upcoming general elections and to all political parties that have been properly registered and that have so far participated in the general elections, and I suggest that this proposal be classified as the 3rd item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u594	I thank Mr. Pajić. Here you go. Is anyone still answering for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u595	The Bošnjak Club cannot accept this as part of the agenda. First, it's not our jurisdiction and secondly, I said it the last time, we can never accept that OSCE and OHR are against the Dayton Agreement and that they violate human rights and freedoms. It is not a duty now, nor is it the jurisdiction of the House of Peoples, nor can we accept such a item of the agenda as to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u596	I thank Mr. Čampara. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? Is anyone picking up? If you don't, let me do it like this. Compared to the proposed agenda, which you received in the invitation, so today when we started with this session, we have, practically, in the beginning of the addition of the agenda and the intervention of Mr. Pajić, also, the second addition of the agenda, if I may say so and suggest. First, let us make known about the proposed amendments to the agenda so that we can declare ourselves later on on the agenda. If you have another suggestion, go ahead. Please, first of all, I suggest that we declare the verification of the delegation's mandate in the order of the Croatian people. It's an addition to the agenda compared to the proposed agenda you received in the invitation. Who's for this addition to the agenda? I'm saying with 11 votes, there are no abstentions. I propose a second addition to the agenda, related to the resolution and oral reading and Mr. Pajić's proposal. Who is to supplement the agenda proposed by Mr. Đoko Pajić. - 7 for - versus 4. - We don't have these decisions here. I find the proposal, if there's any need to go any further, I don't think so. I find that for this proposal, the addition of the agenda voted 7, against 4. So, we do not have the required number of votes from the Bosniak people, from the Federation of BiH, therefore, I find that this proposal has not been adopted. I now propose a statement on the full agenda. The proposed agenda would be like this 4 1. Verification of the term of office of the delegate from the order of the Croatian people 2. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and 3. Delegative questions and initiatives please, let us be clear about this proposed agenda. Who's on the agenda like this? Who's against it? Abstained? I find that with 10 votes in favour and one abstention, the proposed agenda has been accepted. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. Ad.1. Verification of the term of office of the delegation from the Croatian people Ivan Madunić I would ask the representative of the professional service and Mr Ivan to read the text of the oath. I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u598	I pledge to be conscious of the duties assigned to me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u599	That I will support and defend the BiH Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u600	That I would support and defend the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u601	That I will fully implement the Peace Accords
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u602	That I will fully implement the Peace Accords
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u603	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms 5
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u604	Promote human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u605	And protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u606	And defend the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u607	I congratulate you and wish you a lot of success. I congratulate Mr. Ivan one more time. I want successful work, certainly together, and no more change in our club until the end. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.2. The draft Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH Honored gentlemen, before I give this item of the agenda to a discussion, allow me just a few notes, I think it is known that it is an important document that is on the agenda today and, as we can see, this could be just one item of the agenda, so, for today's session. Appreciateing the importance of this document and the importance of this document, at our last session, we have accepted that we call this session today just for one item of the agenda, and this is the Rules of Procedure, just as I just said, appreciating the importance and importance of this document, which is important for the work of this home. In a series of conditions set up by BiH, related to BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, one of the documents is this, so, the fact itself and that we have been working, practically, on the basis of the Interim Rules of Procedure, means that today a shift has been made, the truth, perhaps with a certain delay, perhaps we could have done so before, but I think we are going slowly towards meeting the conditions, I repeat, regarding BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, where we have all accepted that it is a very important job and it is a very important task. Allow me to point out that we also adopted last time, also, one important document, is the Work Programme of this House, and we have tried with these documents to monitor the activities of the Representative Council, to retain one continuity in the work of this House compared to the work of the Representative Council. I hope that we will soon be in a position to discuss and adopt another, also important document, which is the Election Law, which is also directly set up as one of the conditions for this process, with one note that tomorrow we have 6 of the Colleges, a meeting with representatives and rapporteurs from the Council of Europe, will certainly be the subject of this process and what we have done so far, so that I hope and believe, with these two documents and with tomorrow, and with the appointment and working group that has been defined and set out for the establishment of an electoral law on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that we will be in a position to have this document quickly and to make a major shift in meeting these conditions that have been put before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The draft rules of procedure have been given to you in writing. I'm opening a discussion and discussion on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u608	Dear President, the honored representatives of this high house, I warmly welcome you all. Under the BiH Constitution, we know three equal languages are being worked. I've got a proposal from the Rules of Procedure of this House in which language I don't know. So I can't even talk about this Rules of Procedure here, because when I went to read it, I saw some incomprehensible words, so I don't think that this one as a Rules of Procedure should be adopted today until every people gets a document in their own language. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u609	I thank Mr. Marić. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? Mr. Pajić, Mr. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u610	Fellow delegates, I think you've all read this rulebook, Proposed Rules of Procedure, before you came to this home. I'd just like to read article 114. "The House can express its position through the resolution on relevant political issues, social problems and needs and establish policy guidelines, which will be implemented by the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers or other BiH institutions, if that is the case. Any delegate may submit a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution will be addressed directly by the House unless it decides that a preliminary examination by the Commission is necessary." Article 115. "The motioner of the resolution will receive a word of 20 minutes, and then the other participants in the debate can get a word, not more than 10 minutes. Amendments to the proposed resolution may be submitted in writing at any time during the session. The chairman can close the debate when the question, in his opinion, is sufficiently enlightened, when the debate is over, the proposed resolution will be submitted to the vote." Well, here, gentlemen, I, before I came, had the intention and this proposal of the Rules of Procedure was well done and this Rules of Procedure needed this home, in any case, so that the House could work. But here, now I'm asking myself a question and so are you. Is there any point in adopting the Rules of Procedure to prevent a single delegate from putting 7 of the proposed resolution on the agenda and discussing it, possibly investing amendments and making such a resolution to the vote? Mr. Čampara has expressed his position on the matter of my proposed resolution. I believe that the resolution should have been put on the agenda, because as a delegate, I had the right to have a debate about it. I didn't want to go out after refusing to put the proposed resolution on the agenda, because I don't think it makes any sense to discuss it, and now I'm asking a question. Are we really representatives of our people here, and do we do what the people have entrusted us with, to protect their fundamental human rights and freedoms? I think this home is one of the priority tasks of protecting the fundamental human rights and freedoms of all BiH citizens. I speak BiH again, because we are the House of Peoples of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Are we just here to make suggestions for those others who impose a vote on us or we have the right to suggest something, and to hear our word and finally accept the opinion of this high home and attitudes that are very important in protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms, I said, as one of the preconditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. In the last, here's how many sessions we've had, we've been getting a bunch of material that's just potential, in almost 90% of these materials, one of the basic issues of implementation, protection of basic human rights and freedom of the peoples and citizens of BiH. I think the task of this home is to make this issue more correct, more concrete and fairer, if we want free dialogue and if we want the equality of all peoples in BiH, and I say that the equality of the people of BiH has been violated by the announced ban on political parties to the upcoming general elections. Why political parties exist, rather than the citizens, the peoples of one state organise themselves and go free to vote, to choose their representatives in the authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u611	I thank Mr. Pajić. Is anyone still answering for a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u612	Madam Chairman, I hope this is a technical error. In Articles 59 and 60. Rules of Procedure, the term of the representatives of both entities is mentioned. Since this is about representatives of the people in the House of Peoples, not entities, I'm probably saying, it may be about the loss, since both the Rules of Procedures and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples were done at the same time and were trying to agree on everything that could be brought together. There must be an amendment here. In that sense, I propose the chairman and ask for a 20-minute break so that we could possibly propose amendments in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u613	I thank Mr. Malić. We have a proposal and a request to take a break. Does it take 20 minutes, or can we take a little break? We can take ten minutes off. I think in ten minutes I can do...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u614	8 [[speaks from the place and you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u615	We didn't just have the number of votes needed to be able to put that on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u616	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u617	But we didn't, I asked if there was any need for a second plea, related to a plea from the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u618	A dialogue with each other, and you can't hear enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u619	Okay, can we take 10 minutes off? We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] Mr. Tošić is missing, but I think we can keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u620	Mr. Chairman, I am giving up the announced amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u621	Thank you. Is anyone still picking up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u622	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore, since this is a very important document for the functioning of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, indicate not one legal and technical error that lies on page 31 and is set up in Article 136. Rules of Procedure. It's Section 5. The decisions on issues of vital interest and self-decommissioning of the House, and this part of the first decision on issues of vital interest, and in Articles 134 and 135, the way to call for questions of vital national interest, then the way to make decisions, and then Article 136 continues to do the same and in paragraph 1, is said: “if the objection mentioned in Article 103, paragraph 1, points out on time”, I think this is Article 103 here. In fact, a technical error should stand there, according to my assessment, therefore, “if the objection mentioned in Article 135, paragraph 1.” here is so much so that this is in mind. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u623	Thank you. Jadranko, is there a need for an explanation, just a technical error. Is anyone still answering for the discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u624	We had the best intentions today to adopt this, but because of these little things and technical mistakes, this is still an act that shouldn't be adopted by any mistake, not even technically. It might be good, if we could do it in an hour or two, for as long as it can be fixed, if not, maybe delay the next session of the plea, you really shouldn't have the Rules of Procedure to make any mistakes. There are expressions here that no one knew how to interpret, here, Vinko, find that expression that none of us knew what that meant. What's a promotion? That's what the Rules of Procedure says. I don't think the Rules of Procedure should adopt with any mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u625	Thank you, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u626	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished representatives, I will not say seven, but hundreds of forces, when I see how many of you there are, along with 15 of us, then you really deserve at least a number to be a little stronger than the seventh position. And in this House, as well as in the Federal House, we come into some situations that are undefined and, while the Rules of Procedure is already being done, it would be good for the rules of procedure to try, which could later cause different interpretations, to avoid. Articles 42 to 46 specify how the session is called, as proposed, and how the agenda is established. Since the esteemed Mr. Čampara has just brought us into a situation that shows us immediately that one situation is not listed in the Rules of Procedure, seeking, or saying that the agenda has been voted in the vital interest. It would be good if it were included in the Rules of Procedure or if it wasn't in the Rules of Procedure, then we wouldn't stick to it. Make it clear, either by vital interest or without it. The second thing I wanted to mention, it seems to me that the practice in parliaments is the same. She's trying to speak some kind of, I'll say, Yugoslav, and in a newer time with the language of the international community, which she weighs. When representatives of the international community, or various states, send their people to these places, then they write BiH's history on one or two pages and then tell them that language is spoken, and the difference in language is only in the letter. Srbin write in Cyrillic, and Hrvat and Bošnjak write in Latin. A moment ago this resolution, which was offered for adoption on the agenda, still stands here H, probably the Croatian version, if it is the same signature as in that parliament, I'm just reading, not trying to replace a single word, but what I saw in this short text, I found eleven errors, eleven words 10 which the Croatian language does not know. That is why I would support Mr. Šoljić's proposal to argue further, although I have heard that this proposal is good and that it could be adopted, I cannot say whether it is good or not, because I have not read it, but I believe it, but I certainly ask it to be translated, to be written in Croatian and that, after it is properly written in Croatian, not in this language, then we have a new session or a continuation of this session and to adopt the Rules of Procedure, it will certainly be a relief in the work, if the Rules of Procedure, which they say is good, is really good and relevant to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u627	I thank Mr. Madunić. Is anyone still answering for a discussion? If not, gentlemen, allow me, I have one proposal, respecting all your objections, discussions and suggestions, but, while respecting the importance of this document where we are all, I hope we are well aware and we have made a good point publicly and we have said that this is about one important document. I note, while respecting your comments, I see that most of the remarks are the same or similar and the reactions are the same or similar. I, however, think that we can find a compromise here, yes, however, we are going to adopt this important document, and I suggest that the chairman and vice-presidents of the presidency be obliged and that the secretary cannot sign and cannot publish until all these errors and technical remarks you have pointed out are corrected, and such a corrected text is delivered to all of you for insight and reading and after that, when we get feedback, that such a document can be signed and published. Such a conclusion that we adopt and that we act this way and I would really ask, this is not the first time that we have objections of this kind and really, if there is a need, in the professional service, to go to strengthening this professional service and training, etc., to create conditions, to really respect these observations and these reactions, I really fully respect them. Any other suggestions? Is there any further objections to this Rules of Procedure, proposals for other additions, amendments, etc. First, let's get to the bottom of this conclusion, then let's make a statement about the Rules of Procedure. I would like to suggest that we move forward with the statement, so the discussion and the statement on the proposed Rules of Procedure. So, if the Rules of Procedure adopts, here's to make it clear. It is binding on the chair, vice-presidents of the People's House and the Secretary of the House of Nations, to carry out all these technical corrections which you have indicated, objections and technical mistakes, and that it cannot be signed or officially published until this text has been cleared, until it is given to you and if there are objections to that again, if we should put it back on review afterwards, as a consolidated text, to give you insight, otherwise, can be accepted as such. He's not published until any of us have an objection, so he hasn't been adopted. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u628	I think it's a shame that when we're used to adopting the Rules of Procedure, we find a way for the Rules of Procedure to be adopted, even though I was the one who suggested not to adopt it, but this Dragin proposal implies what I was saying. That means that the Rules of Procedure, Drago Chairman, won't sign it, let's shorten the procedure until Izet and I sign it, and solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u629	And it won't be published.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u630	So it's not going to be published, but that's not just why we're calling a new session, I think that's how it can be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u631	And it is bound, once again, by the professional service to correct all these technical, linguistic errors, corrections and everything else, to prepare in the languages of the people, means what you are constantly looking for and what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u632	At the end of the day, I won't sign it until I...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u633	I apologize to professional services, but this looks like "be a good one so I'll buy you a chocolate." And if you're good, tomorrow and I don't have to buy chocolate. No law in the Official Journal has been published in Croatian. It says it's a Croatian language, but it's still a crime, it's a Croatian language that's not a Croatian language and now it's said, every mistake will be corrected, let's just adopt it, so, well, it's going to be under review, it won't be signed, etc. I'm in favour of this Rules of Procedure. For two days, we have been coordinating this Rules of Procedure, we and the club presidents, or this constitutional commission, however, were three co-chairs, myself, Mr. Čampara and Mr. Malić, meaning six of us, with another secretary and Mrs. Branka, we have been harmonising this Rules of Procedure for two days and we have agreed that this is an excellent Rules of Procedure, but a month has passed since then and we still haven't received that text in any language. I'm talking here, we don't have a proposal for a Rules of Procedure in Bosniak, I apologize, language, neither in Serbian nor in Croatian, but we have some kind of gemyst language, which, behold, almost no one understands. I support this Rules of Procedure because it is also an obligation to support it, because I participated in its coordination, but I have my colleagues from the Club who are justifiably resentful for their language and also for some content. I am personally, and also the Croatian Representatives' Club, for the fact that the explicits are written there so that the agenda can be established in the vital interest, and so are we for that and that one and the other variants suit us, but that is known. Whether the agenda can be determined by vital interest or not. That's 12 quite enough for us and we're for both variants, but I suggest that in some article, from 42 to 46, I think the best thing to do at the end of Article 46 is to write: the agenda can be determined by vital interest or the agenda cannot be determined by vital interest. I've already had a little debate over this Rules of Procedure, but, please, let's find a good solution to do the job. I'm not sure that if we adopt the Rules of Procedure, we'll announce it by the 9th month, because all these arrangements, until each of us sees them. Each of us is the easiest to see it when the session is scheduled. But I am to adopt the contents of such a Rules of Procedure. They are Mr. Madunić and Mr. Zoran and Mr. Šoljić, therefore, all four present here from the Club of Croatian Representatives, we are in favour of this Rules of Procedure, and we think it's high time we had a Rules of Procedure and maybe we wouldn't be talking about these dilemmas now if we had a Rules of Procedure. If this was an important document, it also shows that, here we are, and we are almost two years in this house, and we have failed to bring it, but before that, one assembly of this House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH failed to reach the Rules of Procedure on its work. Let's make a little more arrangements. Don't let the Rules of Procedure stay unpublished until the 9th month. Who's gonna catch us all after this session if we say we've adopted, so let's go make a deal, whether the languages match or not? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u634	I thank Mr. Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u635	Mr. President, esteemed fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would like only, first of all, no question to me is the adoption of the Rules of Procedure at all. I think it's the right thing to do, and I didn't bring there what's called the Rules of Procedure, so with the yellow flomaster painted, this is ten times the quality of what we had, and in the end, we have the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. However, the fact is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has certain functions that are very precisely defined, in addition to the legislative one, means it has a control and information function. I would indeed ask and suggest, since the BiH Presidency is operating on a permanent Committee on Military Affairs, and the members of the BiH Presidency are members of this committee and, in a way, a civilian command, and in order to be good in this Rules of Procedure, very likely under point 23, under c), 1c), the Constitutional Affairs Commission, foresees in the descriptive section, I agree that the name of this committee should be shortened, but foresee this control function from the People's House on Defence issues. My suggestion is to try to insert that segment into this text. Second, two or three suggestions. Namely, they're well-intentioned, we talked here about vital national interest. I think we need to look at Article 4, point 3(e) and (f) which speaks very precisely at the proposed decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, meaning they can be declared destructive by the vital interest of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people, mostly by the vote in the order of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people. If that happens, then we really respect the Constitution. We have a Constitution, we have a responsibility to respect and implement the Constitution, to work a committee of reconciliation that makes up one man from all three nations. If it fails to agree, then apply that institution of the Constitutional Court, which has its own jurisdiction in such cases, and 13 I think we missed one thing here, President, about the appointment of Mr Madunić, is purely procedurally technical, perhaps in future there will be certain changes, we have not carried out the verification of the mandate, and we have a Verification Commission and someone needed it in front of the Verification Commission, to say formally that it is coming out and to say that the mandate has been verified and that we are voting on the verification of the mandate. And another suggestion, again from the foundation of the Constitution, is about the process of alignment. In fact, very often we have certain laws and decisions, due to a different approach to adoption or unattainable consent between two homes, and somewhere in the air. I, here, remember specifically the Law on Holidays adopted at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we did not adopt it here in the same text, and why is it not working or a text alignment committee being formed to get to certain legal acts as soon as possible? Therefore, these are the last more, I say, suggestions, references to respecting the Constitution and this one intervention in the Rules of Procedure where this issue of defence should be found in the jurisdiction of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u636	I thank you, sir... let me only briefly, these remarks stand and part of the break is suggested to me, from part of the gentlemen of the professional service, to part of these remarks. I would ask, indeed, the gentlemen of the professional service to be at our aid to the chairman in such cases, and it means that in time and in response, we do not make such failures. I respect the comment of Mr.... but I really ask the gentlemen of the professional service to be helpful in that part. Another of my thoughts, after all of this and if we return to our previous session, as we agreed, quickly, easily, means, for today's session and for just one item of the agenda, it is proposed that in the written form of the amendments, the amendments are proposed by the delegates to the text and the draft Rules of Procedure that we have received. I was informed by Mr. Jadranka, the deadline was until Monday, that no amendments had been proposed in writing. I respect these suggestions today, so I'm obviously seeing today that there is a need obviously to make certain changes. So either to open a further debate on the possibility of amending this Rules of Procedure, and the amendment, however, we didn't have, so don't be angry with today's proposals, however, if there was any need for proposals and amendments of some members, I think we should have done it by the agreed deadline, but not now and for that, so I see that the debate is going on, I have nothing against it, here, give and related now to the remarks that we had the opportunity to hear from the previous gentlemen. The proposal is now Mr Herceg, I apologize, that means Vlado, we've been consulting here a little bit, is there any possibility of finding a solution to this Rules of Procedure again today or should we suggest the conclusion that we postpone it, however, for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u637	The question that Mr Herceg has now raised here, we are on the working part and preparing the text of this Rules of Procedure, when we worked two days ago in Neum, this item of the agenda, i.e., this proposal on the establishment of a monitoring and monitoring of the armed forces, we have, I think, spent the most time on 14 discussions on this issue and we have clearly determined that this Constitution has been defined so far so that it is a Standing Military Committee and we have not even considered this issue. I ask you to respect this, with the absolute right of Mr Herceg to propose it in the amendment section, but I think we have agreed on this issue and I really want to make a contribution to this Rules of Procedure today, with these remarks. I think that's what Mr. Šoljić said, that it won't be published until all three of us in the Bureau sign it and I'd give one suggestion here, most of us will probably find some kind of language thing in the text, in this language or that language. What I heard today is a new question that we probably need to determine ourselves about. Gentlemen who made these remarks, and I, too, we have objections, but they are not such as to disturb the publication of this document, but then we must determine, someone must be an official lecturer. One word, one expression may appeal to Mr. Šoljić, but Mr. Šoljić will not like the order of Hrvat or vice versa. We need to get into solving this issue. Someone has to be officially determined from this home, especially if someone's looking for all three languages, being official lecturers, and now we're not guessing who likes it. I'm going to say something a little folklore sometimes or one of us, but what's a language rule, then someone who's an expert has to say, and whose opinion we're going to accept, because it can open that question forever and ever. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u638	I thank Mr. Malić. I now have a few thoughts, i.e. a few and a suggestion, meaning definitions. In one part, in order to be able to adopt and to declare the adoption of this Rules of Procedure, and we also have suggestions and thoughts to make one small delay about all of this, means, for the sake of all the repairs and remarks that have been made.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u639	We don't have a lecturer. [[Speaks from the place and is partially heard]] We anticipated that decision three, but I'd like to adopt the same thing, so let them pay one or three lecturers who, if necessary, will read the legal words, let the secretary find...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u640	Avdo, I have something different from this proposal of yours and what Mr. Malić was saying, meaning that this professional, or General Service was formed and that three lecturers were foreseen. I mean, they repeat themselves several times like this. It really points out the need for these places to be filled in and that we know exactly who's responsible for it. Because we don't officially know who he is here. I'm not in favor of asking for something from people who can't physically arrive. I don't want to defend gentlemen from the Professional Service, but obviously we see the conditions in which we all work, and they, even though these services are not really filled, and there are burdens and shortness of time and speed. Here, we have a few sessions that we have organised in a few days, precisely because of what I said earlier, because of keeping a certain continuity of the work of this house compared to the Representative's Council, and then I suppose and I want to believe and the statements by the gentlemen of the Professional Service that physically and technically, simply, the weather is not able to do all of this, but I am sure that everything that is envisaged and 15 has been thought about going urgently to the training of all these services, that we know exactly who is responsible for this and that we try simply to avoid these remarks and these reactions that I think are justified. I don't slow down any of these remarks, I don't slow down any of these reactions, I think we should work on it and take maximum care of it, but let's try and do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u641	I don't see an exit unless in five minutes, if the Serbian and Bosniak sides are the way they are, with corrections, then it's up to us to try to find agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u642	Vlado, five minutes is enough for us. I would ask one of the representatives of the Croatian people to explain. [[PAUZA]] Thank you, Mr. Šoljić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u643	So in the desire to adopt this Rules of Procedure today, however, we have found one solution that seems to be satisfying to me, which is that, before the Rules of Procedure is published, the same will be delivered to all delegates in their language, who will provide language remarks within seven days. They were all representatives of the three nations. The rules of procedure will also be signed by the chairman of the two deputies, confirming the identity of the translation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-07-11-0.u644	I thank Mr. Vlad. Is there a need to plead? Please, who's in favour of Mr. Šoljić's proposal? I thank you. He's unanimously accepted. Is anyone still answering about the Rules of Procedure? If there is no, please let us be clear, who is for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure? I find the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations unanimously adopted. I thank all the delegates, especially thanks to the delegates of the Croatian people for being able to agree today with the full and maximum respect for the remarks we have heard today. The next item of the agenda is delegate issues and initiatives 16 Ad.3. Delegate issues and initiatives Is there any question, initiative? There isn't. I'd like to ask you, honoring Mr. Herceg's remarks, so, about today's oath for Mr. Ivan. We have received, now, the truth, this decision, and I have information that you have received an earlier decision on the election of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that it has been accepted into knowledge. Let's just figure it out this time, let's fix this procedural error a little bit later. Thank you, gentlemen. This is what I end up with and I close today's session. The seat's finished at 12.10 p.m.
