ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6192	Gentlemen, honored guests, since we have a quorum, I am opening the 25th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we start by listening to Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was called by the president and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, and representatives of the public statement funds. I warmly welcome and thank you for participating in the work of the House of Representatives. According to our service report, the session is attended by 25 MPs. The absence of the session was justified by representatives: Ivo Mijačević, Sejfudin Tokić, Ibrahim Đedović, Suada Muminagić, Miodrag Deretić and Vito Rakić. Gentlemen, you, as well as our guests, have been invited to the session and have received a proposal on the agenda, this innovation. This morning, the College of the House of Representatives held a session, at which we agreed on a draft agenda that you have now received. The proposed agenda, which you received earlier, excludes the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act. This was done at the request of a member of Mirko Banjac, who had information, who demanded that the BiH Council of Ministers be declared on his amendments. In this regard, I am obliged to note that we received a memo from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers today, which reports that the BiH Council of Ministers has not discussed the amendments, as well as that the entity governments did not agree their views on the law. These are the reasons why point 5 of our proposal should be removed from the agenda. These are my notes, as far as the agenda is concerned. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6193	I would like to say,... that Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers and guests of this session, that Parliament itself has taken the obligation to work systematically in its responsibilities regarding the accession to the Council of Europe and I simply do not understand the reasons why point 5 is removed. If I understood correctly, we became addicts, instead of single-job carriers. Addictionary in the sense that those obligations are defined in our declaration, in our resolution on European integration and the Pact for Southeast Europe. We have said that there are shared responsibilities of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the entity assemblies, meaning all bodies at various levels. And for us to put several times-innovated explanations on why the final procedure for BiH 2 entry into the Council of Europe is delayed, in fact, this explanation shows that the BiH Parliament has become an addict instead of a carrier, because we are entering the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It's a procedure by which we should carry some process. On the other hand, I cannot understand that the delegation led by Mr. Bičakčić is not in a position to encourage the process and to respond to the process, in line with BiH's interests, as we have defined our position in the resolution. And finally, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Ministry of European Integration, newly formed, would have, of course, the obligation to be dynamically attached to the process, and at the beginning of this session we will not get an explanation of how we got it. For me, this is almost completely unreasonable from the point of view of BiH's interest, because it is a first step towards European integration, which we all agree on and where there were no obstacles or controversy about this attitude. That is why I believe that point 5, and I am asking as an MP, given that there is information that is relevant, we leave it on the agenda and that we are talking about things that concern our interest in European integration, particularly with regard to the Council of Europe. I would also like to say that I have repeated twice the request for Minister Turković Biser and a request relating to one of the information that she, as minister, should have presented to parliament, which was normally committed by the full Council of Ministers of BiH in one normal procedure when the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is able to request information in a particular area. I'm surprised there's no information at this session today. Enough time has passed since she was officially registered. I believe that the Secretariat and the College of our Parliament sent to the BiH Council of Ministers as well as other information. I just want to make sure it's possible that something broke in such a praised relationship that we have formed between the Council of Ministers of BiH and our Parliament and I want the House's statement on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6194	Excuse me, please, I forgot to mention that we are taking this session through the new rules of procedure. So, you have three minutes to argue. Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6195	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, in the draft agenda we received for today's session, it was, under paragraph 5, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act. In the draft agenda we received before this session, there is no point, with the explanation of the chairman, Mr Skopljak. I must admit that, at the very least, despite the fact that the Council of Ministers of BiH has indeed been busy with large affairs concerning the installation of ministries, new ministries, etc., it seems rather uncomfortably to me that the Council of Ministers of BiH did not have time to declare its amendments, and that is the reason for removing this law from the agenda. It seems to me that, too, the reason that entity governments have not received opinions is some kind of waste of time in the regular parliamentary procedure at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and I will remind you that I will also ask. In a letter from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Tuševljak, it says that, at the Council of Ministers of BiH, the positions, opinions, were to be translated into the final proposal 3 of this law, i.e. to agree the views. Minister Kurtović, who, as far as I can tell, is not here, I would ask a very clear question. As part of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, is the proposal of this law in line with all the answers to the amendments and what are the real reasons for removing the Customs Policy Act from the agenda? I'd like to point out one more time. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly should not turn into a hostage of endless ping-pong playing with important things of the BiH state, by entities, or by lack of time in the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6196	Thank you very much. Mr. Halid Genjac, the chairman, answered for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6197	Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, it is true that in the draft agenda that MPs received, there was also this point. We, too, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, received a letter from the BiH Council of Ministers, according to which the BiH Council of Ministers, held a session held in 6.7.2000, laid down a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the BiH Customs Policy Act. All of these were the reasons that the College considered the item prepared for the agenda and included it in the agenda. Today, however, at a session held just before this session, we received a letter signed by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Spasoje Tuševljak, which says: We inform you that the Council of Ministers of BiH has not discussed the amendment to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act, as well as that the entity governments did not agree their views on the same law. Please consider these facts in the process of preparing a session of the House of Representatives. Of course, despite this letter, I felt at the College that there were conditions for this point to be considered. However, since the College can only agree to make a proposal here, we did not agree on a proposal to keep this item on the agenda. I support the proposal to keep this item on the agenda today and ask the BiH Council of Ministers to explain to me whether this is the position of the BiH Council of Ministers? Why the BiH Council of Ministers has not spoken out on the amendments and what it means that the entity governments should agree on a law that regulates matter that is in the strict jurisdiction of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as stated in Article 3(1) of the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6198	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Banjac, the chairman, spoke for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6199	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed guests have already become a practice, but it is symptomatic, whenever an understanding of the opinion with entities is mentioned, it immediately causes rash, not to say the Czech part of the MPs. Now, my dears, the existence of an entity is reality, and the future of BiH lies in agreement. Try to understand that. The sooner you understand who you do not understand, the sooner we will move forward into the better future of this common BiH. So what's ugly, what's unacceptable to hear the ones that we're referring to, and we want democracy. The fact that you want to break over your knee, for a quick reason, more and more legal projects are falling. If there's anything good to be prepared, then it's half way at his adoption. So, I don't see anything wrong, though, I think it's extremely useful to hear what the entity governments think, what they think, I say. I guess it's not the devil that we forbid and think, and I have a lot of questions that I'm going to ask when this comes up here on the agenda, a lot of them are going to have to get arguments and documents, so let's just see who's who and who's where. There's a lot of, gentlemen, in this country of missing tows, loaded with goods, a lot of IMT here, like, if there's me here, but don't think I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6200	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Genjac, then Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6201	Although not directly mentioned, but in the discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6202	It can't be a replica chairman, he can only blame the quote if he has something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6203	I insist that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers answer the question implicated by his memo. What does it mean that the entity governments did not agree on the law when the BiH Council of Ministers agreed on the bill? I asked the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6204	Is there anyone who can answer this question?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6205	I'd just like some very brief clarifications. Namely, the RS Prime Minister sent a letter to the BiH Council of Ministers on 11.08.2000, I have it. This is practically blackmailing Mr. Tuševljak that, until Dodik says it's okay, he can't put the Customs Policy Act in the procedure. Because, since 18 August 2000, Mr Mirsad Kurtović, the minister at the BiH Council of Ministers has explained on a dozen pages all the answers to all the amendments submitted in connection with the debate on this law at the House of Representatives. It is obvious, therefore, that in the Council of Ministers of BiH, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, thanks to a letter from Milorad Dodik, did not want to place this on the agenda of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers did not plead with the amendments. In that sense, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has become a hostage of those who slow down processes and adapt them to their needs, and our insistence on discussing these laws, Mr Banjac, is not an attempt to break anything over our knees, but to just do those jobs that we have already started, which we have already made known and that we need to finish and that is my answer to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6206	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, it seems to me that, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, we have had the same practice that we have had over the past year and a half, when we have criticised them for their lack of presence, these are new ministers, I think, just a little more cunning, and they are doing some other very important jobs, of course, under quotes, they have sent their assistants and deputies. I think we should give them one last warning, especially since a few moves they've made indicate they haven't even started their own business yet. I don't want to talk about this customs policy law, but I would support this initiative to get off today's agenda session until at least it responds to the amendments proposed, even if it doesn't pass the procedure. I have answered the question because of another law, which is the law on amendments and amendments to BiH's travel documents, and I suggest that it be removed from the agenda until further notice. For that I have a few, indeed, those who want to listen, truly strong arguments. Through this law, the relationship of some people with that work that we do and the relationship of some people who think they are more influential is shown to have an impact on BiH and its internal structure. I would remind you that this is one of the first laws that has passed all the procedures in the BiH Assembly, in both of its homes. Immediately after that, various initiatives have arisen that this law is changing, and they do not at all ask what about those laws that have not passed the assembly procedure, which, I say, have been imposed on one temporary basis, and in some ways depend and are linked to this travel documents law. There are two absurdities here. One of the absurdities is that individuals are calling for declarations of international conferences on the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, and they forget the fact that the disputed part of this law has been accepted just as one of these declarations has been defined. I remind you of the Bonaan Declaration, or the Bonaan Conference of 9 and 10 December 1997, which defines Article 6. The Law on travel documents and this recommendation has been fully adopted by the MPs of both homes. So, an annex from the Bonn Declaration was completely copied and introduced into the Law on travel documents for BiH. Some here apparently imagine that in the congregation it is decided as it is in Bull’s algebra where double negativity leads to a true statement. A double lie can only be a lie squared. The second absurd in all of this is the fact that, therefore, in the Bonjourna Declaration, I am now calling for international conferences, it says nicely that on the cover of the BiH passport BiH will stand the coat of arms of BiH, when both BiH Parliamentary Assembly houses adopt it and when the BiH Presidency accepts it, position b., seems to me, in this document. We now have a proposal to change passports, the moment we don't have coat of arms. We have a temporary coat of arms, and for a year and a half we don't even ask why we have a temporary coat of arms. The adoption of this law would mean the acceptance of a temporary document that will only be valid as far as this coat of arms is concerned. Because it is natural, if we were not able to correct the error of the previous BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I expect that the next assembly will be responsible enough, so to speak, and will adopt the coat of arms in the assembly and then conditions will be created for changing the travel document. I remind you, and I would point out one absurdity in all of this or one illogicality, however you wish. The passport costs at this point 6 35 marks or 40 marks. In RS, the need for a passport is about 150 to 200,000 passports. 200,000 passports times 35 marks that's 7 million marks. If you take as much as it is in the Federation of BiH, then you get a number three times bigger than a US government donation for refugees was announced yesterday. Whoever's playing with our fate and situation here, and let me point out, if we accept this passport, that would now mean a change in half a year for when hopefully we're going to adopt a permanent coat of arms. These are really reasons why I cannot participate in such discussions and discussions, and that I would not return, so that I would not go out again to discuss, when it comes to this agenda point again, when we have information about the laws imposed, I propose that this assembly, within that part of the agenda, determine the commission, the parliamentary commission, which will return these laws to the assembly procedure and, if possible, strive to, until the end of the term of office of this assembly, to pass these laws through the assembly procedure. To the BiH Council of Ministers, I would like to refer the reproof and ask them to do a little research on the documentation, not just 3-4 years old, if they are unable to do so, then the question of what...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6207	Mr. Chairman, members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the guests, I guess now it is clear why I insisted that we stick very precisely to one agreement, that what has been offered as a agenda to Members, with the invitation, be respected, be retained, because it is simply a matter of the dignity of our college and its responsibility not to bring us, as I would say, on the wrong track constantly and to talk about things which, in some way, are already conditionally said, an institution is being absorbed. As far as I got the information, we were informed last time, and there was controversy about it, about the order of things we're going to talk about, that this law that Mr. Dokić was talking about had passed the procedure at the Council of Ministers of BiH and that he had agreed in full and that as such he had come to the agenda of our home. It is abnormal, I said then, that there is confusion about the things that we have adopted one principle of work according to which what has been agreed on by the Council of Ministers of BiH which you have given confidence, I underline those who voted in favour, and for the law, and for this Council of Ministers of BiH, and then it is undoubtedly said that what the Council of Ministers of BiH has agreed and which allows for normal procedure in parliament will come on the agenda of the procedure provided for in the relations between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament. I cannot understand that someone sitting in our assembly who voted for such a principled and correct relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament, we are practically trying to make any argument, let's say, in this decision on the provisional validity of the coat of arms law, disqualify a bill that the Council of Ministers agreed and referred to the regular procedure. I don't understand it as a procedure, because it's the opposite of our joint decision. Our joint decision is written, I have looked closely at the Rules of Procedure now, and in this procedure there is no way, it is not correct, and it would have to be made new business matter to suspend the procedure so that the Council of Ministers of BiH can put the law that has agreed on the procedure and then Parliament will not say now for some reason irrational and rational or any of this on the agenda. Since this has passed the Council of Ministers, past the College, I again insist that we do not open a debate on a principled relationship in the Rules of Procedure. The BiH Council of Ministers agreed on a law, offered it to our parliament, which we need to discuss. If we have an argument on the contrary, here you go, there's a agenda point, but we're blocking, practically, ourselves and blocking the 7th Council of Ministers of BiH. In this case, I don't think it's very good, especially since we have heard from the same people an argument as to why it is necessary to give this Council of Ministers of BiH consent to function at this interval of several months. So, I insist that this is being debated and that it remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6208	Thank you very much. The replica has Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6209	Since I consider myself called, as a member of the Kolegijum, and, thank Bog, everyone can speak, and what that says is now a second question and how many arguments there are for what it says, that's another question and it remains to be answered. It is also regulated that material must be obtained at the point of the agenda. For a point whose removal I sought has no material and there is an explanation of the BiH Council of Ministers why it is not there. Whether it's true or not, it's valid for me, and there's nothing to argue about. But, gentlemen, I'm acting like one, and I'm going to act like one, and I have a stand for it, and that attitude is based on the rules of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the general principle, the dignity of this home has long been destroyed and does not exist. If you gentlemen don't know, here's the document to multiply it too, so I'm going to ask, here's the information about passports where he's already been elected and the one who prints and asks for money to be transferred to him until 15.8th, today it's 29. That's why I'm asking for a break and this to be printed out to people. Also, there is information that the content and appearance agreed in New York, here is a statement by a member of the BiH presidency, a letter that he personally referred to me, on my request, you will see what it says. I'm asking, who's playing with this house? I can honestly say they're not MPs. But what I'm talking about today when we're being printed by Francuz passports, the Nijemac need to take free customs zones, and the Mađar print ballots, and the people feed grass in BiH, there's no grass, it's fried. Please, gentlemen, this is a disgrace and this is why someone has to answer. What's going on? Whether the miners in Zenica and Ljubija will live better than the millions, hundreds of millions of marks will go to foreigners who make profits here taking jobs. Is there not in BiH and one printery that can print ballots, which knows how to print passports or, while Croatia, a neighbouring country, declares the entire island a free zone, Foreigner Hajneman should take everything from us. Do you want me to talk about it, gentlemen? The people of BiH need to know about this and ask for a parliamentary survey committee to be formed to get material from me and to inform us what is happening to us. What's going on with us? Because if someone thinks they're going to work this way, they won't, they won't. But we'll call ourselves names and last names. We both know the names and names of those who do this, in the end, they have signed on a lot of documents and therefore, Mr. Chairman, I request the formation of a survey committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6210	Thank you very much. Mr. Divković answered. We'll give it a break after the agenda vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, someone told this speaker that the sooner we understood it, the better for this country and for ourselves. I'll remind you, I agree first and foremost with that finding to the end. I'll remind you that on the 17th of last year, here's the paper at my place, we had an initiative to amend the Law on travel documents. This change, the initiative came, it seems, unfortunately, from the SDP, so it was the biggest shortfall, which it came down to, if you remember, and we discussed for a long time, to allow every BiH citizen, if she wanted to, to underline this, if she wanted to, that he could have a passport or passport on which BiH only stands. All others, according to the proposal, could retain passports on which the entity stood next to BiH. Now here, behind that same proposal, I recorded the debaters at the time, to see how the bile discussion was from being unconstitutional, that there was no constitutional basis, so that it was redefining the BiH state, its structure and what was not said. We claimed then, and, behold, I am pleased that the Council of Ministers of BiH, working as a collective body, rather than a merger of ministers from two entities, has found here in an explanation that there is a constitutional basis, that it is, in some way, a commitment of this House, according to certain declarations, and New York mentions the declaration and Madrid, etc. I am now asking, are we really, at least at the end of the term, the sooner we realize it, the better and the better we don't drag things down for a year to get something that's important to bring back, which is important for this country to enter into the European integrations that we seek, etc. and for this reason, I strongly support putting this on the agenda, so let it vote as the BiH Council of Ministers has proposed, I will be pleased, because it will be a contribution from BiH as a state and what we at least verbally advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6212	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6213	I'm sorry to return, but I have to react. In fact, many say in discussions, which are partly still standing, unless laws are passed and the right framework is created. And I'm exceedingly reporting for Mr. Dokić's calculations. The law as proposed provides that travel documents issued are currently in force until the end of their importance. Therefore, there will be no additional costs for BiH citizens if this law is passed and I think we should focus on the content of the law and on the adoption of the law, and this is too much to say that MPs have in mind when declaring whether it will be for this to be on the agenda or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6214	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6215	I remind Mr Halid that the bill says there will be a BiH coat of arms, which is normal, but I remind him, too, that we do not have a permanent coat of arms of arms, that the assembly can bring a different one at the next session, perhaps this one will remain, but it can be different. So he can bring it back in a year. So whoever gets a passport in two months, he'll have to change it in half a year when he's a second coat of arms. So I repeat again, let us leave this for consideration, even when this assembly adopts the coat of arms of BiH, when we have one such symbol that is permanent and not on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6216	Please, I'm closing the debate on the agenda because no one's reported to her by now, and the suggestions I've crystallized here, and you'll be able to correct them. Under number 1, there will be a proposal to vote, an innovative draft agenda, as you have on your desk, which is a proposal, practically, of the College, as is usual so far. The second proposal will be your new proposal to leave point five on the agenda, i.e., practically, if this agenda is adopted, then the proposal will fall off and, finally, we have Mr Dokić's third proposal, to remove point 3 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH. I don't know if I'm clear. Is there any more additions? I'm now putting proposal number one to the vote. Proposal number one is the agenda as proposed by the College, with these six points. Who's for the proposal? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's for the agenda? Of the 24 MPs present, 15 voted in favour – 6 voted against. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS 3 for. Therefore, this draft agenda has not passed. We'll have the agenda. Now we have to adopt all points per item of the agenda. Let's first get out of the agenda that's here as an innovative proposed to you, that's 1. A record from the 23rd House of Representatives. Who's up for that point? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? Point 1. The log from the 23rd session was adopted. 2. Proposal for a law on the Treasury of BiH institutions. Let me just tell you the results of this vote. A total of 24 present, 21 to – hence, this proposal was adopted. 2. Proposal for a Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions I'm asking everyone who's in favour? Against? Of the 24 present, 22 was in favor. Therefore, this item of the agenda has also been adopted. We have a third item on the agenda. 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH Who is for this item of the agenda? 10 Who's against it, I ask everything? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 24 present, 17 for – 6 against. From the Federation of BiH 15 for – from RS 2 for. This agenda doesn't go away. 3. Information on the laws passed by the High Representative on a provisional basis. Who's for this agenda point? Who's against it? And this law was adopted unanimously, practically, 24 present, 22 for – none against, it is a unanimously adopted item of the agenda. 4. An innovative list of conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe Who is for this item on the agenda? Who's against it? Of the 24 present – 22 for, none against, therefore, unanimously adopted and this item of the agenda. According to this agenda, answer parliamentary questions and MP questions. Who's for this agenda point? Of the 24 present – 24 for. Therefore, it was adopted unanimously. We have another draft item on the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act of BiH I ask everything, who is it for to be the point of today's session? Who's in, asking everything? Who's against it? I'm asking the entities. Who's for the Federation of BiH, who's for this agenda point? From RS, who's in? Of the 24 present – 16 was for – 7 v. From the Federation of BiH, 12 for – from RS 2 for. This isn't the agenda point. The debate on the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6217	You forgot that I asked the agenda to form a polling committee on the point of amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, because of the situation in which MPs were brought in and again to seek the formation of a survey committee and to ask that information be multiplied that MPs can see what is happening about it. So, to see that, because I didn't vote against the law right now, but to take it off the agenda until it was seen what was going on and that's why I acted abstention. I'm looking for material to split, I guess that's not controversial, I guess. 11 Second, I ask that a survey committee be formed to, on the basis of what they read and see, establish a factual state and to inform us what is happening.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6218	Legally, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the chairman, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, guests of this assembly, I would like to ask a question. Whether by proposing to set up a polling commission, Mr Banjac raises the issue of trust to the BiH Council of Ministers, because this law is no one, as I would say, from the clear sky puts it on the shoulders of parliament but the Council of Ministers of BiH. This means that the BiH Council of Ministers should bear all the consequences, because the law implies law and the way the law is implemented, and writes in every law as normal as it takes to implement the law. Therefore, if we accept the proposal, I just want to warn about the establishment of the polling commission, it is my opinion that Mr Banjac is thus asking the question of the confidence of the BiH Council of Ministers, because this is a principle issue. The law did not come from anyone, not from the SDP, nor from a group of MPs, but from the BiH Council of Ministers. As for the information Mr. Banjac has at his disposal, I am pleased to get more information from us than we had, and that is quite correct, because one MP who has some unknown information puts it to the attention of Parliament, and I would like to welcome it, and as far as the survey committee is concerned, that means asking me questions of confidence to the BiH Council of Ministers, for which Mr. Banjac has been heartily struggling to be on the basis of that law and on the basis of this composition, so I would like to know if he is actually opening the question of trust to the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6219	The answer is Mr. Mirko Banjac. The material written after the break you'll get.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6220	Reverend, I've said what I think, and you conclude from what I said. If I said what you said, you wouldn't have to go out. That's your opinion, but I want to say next. I asked, don't, please bring out the wrong information here. They don't piss me off or make me angry, but I just have to react. I asked for the Council of Ministers of BiH to be formed on the principle of election results in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because it is quite logical that the executive power reflects the composition and the body it represents, that is quite logical. So, I didn't suggest what you're saying, and when it comes to trust or not, the polling committee will come up with information that it will come up with. Maybe Mirko Banjac will ask that question, but he didn't ask it today, because it would be prejudicial to what they should be doing, and I don't know what they're going to do or what they're going to come up with.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6221	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before you decide to vote, I'd like to give you just a few information. The law, meaning to amend and supplement the Law on Travel document, was made in co-operation with the international community, primarily with the Office of the High Representative in BiH. One of the materials, the proposal was also in the past meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers. Back then, we had him, minors, agreed, but unfortunately he didn't show up at the BiH Parliament. The three key elements that the 12 BiH Council of Ministers have led to approach the draft, or draft, of this law, and to pass it. First, these are three international meetings, meaning the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference, which took place in Madrid in 15 and 161298. So, a year after that historic session that was in Bon, and we all know what it looked like and how it was brought there, and after which concessions, agreements, negotiations, consensus, Article 6. The following material that led us and which defined us are the provisions of the New York Declaration, adopted by all three members of the BiH presidency. Also, it is agreed to create a unique Bosnian Herzegovina passport, with no entity label and only with BiH marking, in all three languages and two letters. Third, the provisions of the Brussels Declaration, the Peace Implementation Council and, I remind you, held on 23 May and 24 May of this year, and I also remind you of the obligations both the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency and all BiH institutions have on the road map, meaning the plan for BiH. There were still elements that had not been sufficiently well done or had not been included in the previous law at all, and we have now put that on. The OHR very much supported these amendments and this initiative, and together with us they participated in the work. I think the BiH Parliament College has received a letter from Deputy High Representative Džonson on this matter. I don't know if that letter has been distributed to all MPs. However, it makes it very clear that they support these solutions and support the proposal adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers. The draft law was agreed in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications with, I must say, one long and let's say strong cooperation and agreement with OHR. The BiH Council of Ministers, as a collective body, passed the bill by consensus and the bill was sent to parliament a month and a half ago, it seems, perhaps more than a month and a half ago, to consider, pleading and possible adoption. In view of this and given the deadlines that are very strictly prescribed both in the Brussels conference and in the road map and in New York, it is said that under these deadlines, which we wanted to respect, it is said that September is the deadline for issuing a new unique passport. Therefore, OHR experts, experts from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, led by Minister Gligorić, representatives of the RS MUP and representatives of the MUP at least two or three cantons in the Federation of BiH, as experts, have launched certain preparatory actions. I have to say preparations for this information we're talking about here. Preparations have been launched that, following the adoption of the Law here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it would not waste time and could access the technical performance of the contract, the final selection of performers, the signing of the contract and the launch of the job itself. Normally, the procedure shall take at least three or four months after the signing of the contract to be initiated, i.e. to allow the issue of the first passport. So no one did it on their own. Representatives of both entities, experts from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, led by the minister and four or five representatives of the Office of the High Representative, means OHR here in Sarajevo and BiH. They have analysed four or five offers of various companies, their technical solutions, and the booklets, and the expert group has reached certain conclusions in this information. So, to this day neither the contract was concluded, nor any obligations were created, simply as I see it, I may be wrong, but as I see it 13 and it seems to me that members of the Council of Ministers of BiH have also started certain preparatory actions so as not to waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6222	I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6223	Today, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, guests, we are working on the new rules of procedure that you have before you. Please open page 449. Official Journal No. 20 and Official Messenger of BiH, section, section one, Council of Ministers, Article 139. Within the framework of its rights and competences set out in the Constitution and the Law, the Council of Ministers may file: (a) The laws of the House and deliver opinions on the proposals of laws not submitted by the Council of Ministers; (b) It may request a meeting of the House to discuss the issue it wishes to make, in order to make its views known to the House; (c) Through its representative, it will take part in sessions of the House, the extended College and the Commission and most important for today's decision, I call on the College to act on the Rules of Procedure which are in force. d) It may... at any time of the debate, meaning independently of the course of the debate and e) It is now called for by Article e) of Section 1, Article 139. He can ask to put one item on the agenda at home. In that case, the requested item will be placed on the agenda of the home. Therefore, given that the Law on Travel Documents, the addition of the Law on Travel documents, refers to a unique position or common position, or how you want the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in this case, only if the Council of Ministers of BiH now gives up the debate, we are not obliged to put it at home. If the BiH Council of Ministers has put this into normal procedure and came on the basis of their request to be placed on the agenda of the home, it is our obligation to respect the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we will break the relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers and our home. Citing this section 1, the BiH Council of Ministers, Article 139, I ask the question. Does this mean that after our vote that the Council of Ministers of BiH, and after the Deputy Minister's intervention, withdraws this proposal or continues to insist, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that it remain on the agenda? If he insists on staying on the agenda, we, as a home, are obliged, despite our vote, to review the position of the BiH Council of Ministers, point 1 and 2, technically to tell you, gentlemen chairman. If we have to vote quickly in the break, find us these ballot cards, because there is no handlifting, says Article 66, the vote in the home can be performed a) electronically, we do not have that, b) by raising the ballot, we do not have a c) by calling. So, in the future, if we don't get the charts, we're gonna have to call ourselves. I propose that we first hear the position of 14 of the BiH Council of Ministers, and if the Council of Ministers gives up, I agree, if it does not give up, I demand the respect of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6224	Please, we've come to terms with the agenda points. We said ours. I don't believe the Council of Ministers of BiH can be above this home. So this, as far as I'm concerned, is my explanation and the lawyers can say theirs. Secondly, I didn't open the debate. Therefore, we have, only as far as the agenda is concerned, to declare further on Mirko Banjac's proposal, the formation of a survey committee. So I'm asking you
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6225	We have concluded the debate on the agenda and the establishment of the agenda, but Mr Mirko Banjac's proposal, on the formation of a survey committee, must be something that is the point of the agenda. If you, Mr. Skopljak, have given Mr. Banjac the right to propose, then you must, in practice, open a debate on counter-proposals. I think we should be very serious about this, regardless of what we just received today from this new Rules of Procedure, published in the Official Journal, the proposal is for Mr Spahić. And when it comes to Mr. Banjac's proposal, I'd say the following, we're in a weird situation. The PSBiH House of Representatives today refused to discuss amendments and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents, and it is proposed to establish a committee of inquiry on a letter which we have not yet received and for which we do not know whether it is the fruit of the official correspondence of the BiH Council of Ministers with the College of this House, or whether it is the fruit of the private ability of individual members of the College, or of the representatives, to obtain extra information. The debate, the formation of a polling committee on this bill, based on a document that we do not have, is about to step in the fog, without a agenda point, on a proposal for a new law on travel documents. Every other point, every other conclusion is pointless and therefore, gentlemen, unless we accept Mr Spahić's proposal, and we would have to interpret it well and accurately identify ourselves around it, and if this provision remains, in which case, again on the agenda, we do not have the Law on travel documents, then only one option remains. I think the Office of the High Representative is ready to plead very quickly, for the second time already, on refusing to put on the agenda a bill adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH by consensus. Therefore, without adopting this law, as part of the agenda, no establishment of a survey committee in relation to other actions, I think it makes no sense, and it seems to me that the exit could be in the proper reading of the new Rules of Procedure, which Mr Spahić said, and I propose to the College to request and take a five-minute break from the Rules of Procedure for proper reading of the Rules of Procedure and to make it clear of what Mr Spahić said and to get out of this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6226	We certainly have planned a break, but, please, let's see, about the issue of voting on the agenda, so that we have the agenda on the table right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6227	Ladies and gentlemen, it's really not clear to me that some simple things in the procedure are not understood. Well, I guess you didn't think we'd be able to discuss the formation of a survey committee outside the agenda, and that's why I intervened when Pero said the debate on the agenda was concluded to vote on this. I don't mind if you refuse or accept it. I want you to accept. But, second question, gentlemen, if we previously put the law and discuss it, then it's really pointless to form a committee of inquiry, what. Mr. Kadić said very well. We refused to discuss it today, not refuse to discuss it permanently. That doesn't say it's permanent. Therefore, I personally think Mr Spahić is right. Let me just say, Ibro, calm down, it's going to be slow. Let me tell you, we've set the agenda for today. It remains for the next session, what Spahić said, to be classified, I am for it, but, Mr Spahić, my question, why haven't you responded before? Now you've put this home in an awkward position and it doesn't make sense. For today, it's over. Here, you suggest, we vote, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6228	Here we have a proposal that the formation of a survey committee be proposed here as a item of the agenda. You will have the right to accept or refuse. Since I had no information as to whether the formation of a survey committee was proposed here as a item of the agenda or whether to form in action. I ask you to respect this remark. I'm asking you, this is something you can plead. As for Mr Spahić, I'm sorry, I have my word now. High Representative, we will request the opinion of the High Representative. If it is for this point to return to the agenda, you will have it, and you will have the agenda immediately behind the break. I'm not written for legal questions, because I have too much experience in all this. I'm asking you, I'm running this session and I'm asking you, who is it for to include in the agenda the formation of a survey committee, Mr. Mirko Banjac's proposal. Who's in? Please make a statement. Who's against it? This proposal, of the 23 present – only 5 was for – 13 was against. Therefore, we do not need an entity vote to do so. This concludes the debate on the agenda. Mr. Neimarlija, please. Please, this isn't an open debate. This is an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6229	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament and guests, I would suggest or call on the members of the College to, in view of Mr Spahić's proposal, consider this situation a little bit, given the very new Rules of Procedure, because I fear that we have acted on the logic of the old Rules of Procedure in discussing the proposal of the two laws, the Proposed Law on Customs Policy, under which it is our obligation that the Council of Ministers of BiH be made known before we enter into a statement on the draft law, on amendments. Following that logic, we, in fact, shut down, refused, in fact, to include the law in the agenda. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, that is not necessary now, that is one thing. 16 The second thing is that the Rules of Procedure explicitly requires inclusion in the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal and we have also ruled that out. It's a very serious contradiction. I call on the members of the College not to intervene immediately at the Office of the High Representative, but with consultations with our lawyers, consider this. I, of course, appreciate that the debate on the agenda has been concluded, but I am afraid that with such a solution, that is, such a proposal for the agenda, we will be inconsistencies, or inconsistencies, as regards the application of the new Rules of Procedure that we are, in fact, going with today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6230	Mr. Mirko Banjac has an netačan quote, but I'm concluding this. You'll have an opinion, or exact provision, to explain this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6231	The gentleman's right. We must consider, when it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents, I think there are grounds to consider. However, there is a diametrically different situation in these two laws. In this second law, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a memo. So it's not the same situation, I just wanted to intervene. You're, of course, in agreement that it's not identical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6232	Half an hour's break, then you'll have, go ahead, Kadić. But I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6233	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be very specific, Mr. Skopljak has offered a working conclusion regarding Mr. Spahić's request that was not voted on and which, in my opinion, is not necessary. We do not need the opinion of the Office of the High Representative on the interpretation of Article 139. Mr. Skopje, don't humiliate this country's mind and this country's House of Representatives. At the very least, if you wanted someone to interpret it to you, then you could have previously called on the Constitutional Commission to interpret it. It is sufficient, however, only the College based on professional people but certainly not OHR. Leave the OHR to help us with something bigger and bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6234	Half an hour's break. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. [[PAUZA]] Spahić, no quorum. I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. Gentlemen, we're moving on to the session. I declare that Mr Spahić has complemented the agenda with his intervention, i.e. the agenda, practically, now exactly as you have in front of you on the tables and we immediately move to the first item of the agenda. 17 Ad.1. Journal of the 24th session of the House of Representatives I open the debate. Who has any objections, or suggestions on the record from last session. Here you go. Mr. Spahić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6235	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the guests, I would like to remind you that at this session of the 24th debate which opened on the agenda and the first item I have repeated, and this is not registered anywhere, the request is quite accurate for Minister Kurtović and Mr Spasoje Tuševljak, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, to ensure that, during this period, work material relating to economic and social policy in BiH is delivered to this point, so that, according to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly programme, this will be put on the agenda in September. By this moment, on 29 August, on the basis of the conclusions of both homes, the Council of Ministers of BiH, we did not receive any information from the Council of Ministers, no working material from Minister Kurtović and I said in this case, unless it was launched, if we did not get this information, given the economic and social situation in BiH, which is in various forms, from collapsing to total destruction, today announced by domestic and international representatives, with all possible statistical indicators, in relation to employment policy, income per capita and the real state of things in this country, I would demand that the simple authority of the House of Nations and the House of Representatives, followed by the signatures, twice sent to the Council of Ministers of BiH, be determined so much that it is necessary that one relationship of the BiH Council of Ministers towards us, expressed in writing form. I demand that Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak and Mr. Kurtović be defined in writing according to this initiative, which was then once again noted. Secondly, I asked that Mrs. Bisera Turković, Minister for European Integration, at the first next session, that was the session of the 24th, this is 25th, contact parliament and inform us of the course of European integration. I hope, given that Mrs. Turković is here, that she has prepared that information, just as the foreign minister has been pumply doing. On these two examples, I would like to warn you that it is simply forgotten in the record at specific requirements. The minutes were to include these two requirements, as they were repeated in the context of the debate on the previous meeting of the BiH Parliament at the 23rd session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6236	Thank you very much. Please, this supplement will be made. I'm asking the secretariat to adopt that. So, I hope, Mr. Spahić, you're satisfied with that. Is there anyone else on this agenda point? Who's in favor of adopting this record, which is on your desks, along with the addition of this, clearly, that's what we've said. Who's in, asking everything? 18 Who's against it? By entities, I ask who's in favor? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Who's for the record, this is just about the record? Of present 23 - 17 for. From the Federation of BiH 12 for – from RS 6 for. Therefore, the minutes from last session were adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. Proposal for a law on the Treasury of BiH institutions Please be sure to present an opening lecture before the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6237	Dear MPs, MPs, chairman, guests, the BiH Institutions Act was on this parliament as a draft and you adopted it. Since it has been a long time and there has been no meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have, in this new assembly, worked on this proposal within these 60 days and had material at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, formed a proposal and was delivered to you for adoption. Two things we had to correct in relation to the draft you adopted, and I'm going to apostrophe for you, which was why we changed something. The draft, which you adopted, said the single budget account would be opened, the BiH Treasury of BiH institutions, by banks in BiH and abroad. Since we have assessed at the Treasury Ministry that the current banking system in BiH is not such that it can provide security for the single budget account, we have complemented this member and we have placed that the account can be opened at the Central Bank of BiH, because we believe it is an institution that is formed and that is doing its job well and that offers certain security with the funds of the BiH institutions. The other thing applies to the deadline. It's August 29th. We wrote that as the situation is now related to the budgets of BiH and its institutions, it is not good. I can inform you that, according to my assessment, there are now 30 accounts, over a hundred signatories, no single accounting, which means no valid management decisions and resources can be made, or total financial flows. You need to look for information from more places to find out how much money there is and the question is whether it is true or not. So this law is one of our necessity, all of us. To ensure basic transparency, management and what is fundamental in order to manage the resources we have. Therefore, I ask you all to make sure that your seriousness and responsibility that you showed at the first vote on the draft, to show it now, that these four months that we have by the end of the year, as we have marked in the proposal, we make preparations to start with a single account as of 1 January next year, which means that in one place all the funds are being managed, that three people sign all the spending and that they know what the funds are going to be. I feel I need to say a few more words about donor funds. You have also heard through the media and probably had certain materials at your earlier sessions related to the assistance that the international community has directed towards BiH. 19 We today do not have the exact data in one place as much as it is approved, how much is implemented, and you must look for it in more places. So this, in my opinion, is something that you really, as responsible people, should today adopt, as you have done so far, to start slowly managing financial flows and for everyone to know, has the right to ask for information about what the funds have gone to, and also, what they are asking us to do to the international financial institutions, the IMF and the World Bank, as our creditors and those who direct us to certain financial flows and economic flows, so that we can meet their request. I think this is enough for the introduction now, if there are any concrete questions, I'm at my disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6238	Thank you, Madam Minister, for opening the debate. Here, any questions, any additions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6239	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers, or Minister, a little louder, okay. What I've said so far, which has not been heard well, is to address ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. On the occasion of this item of the agenda, I would like to say that, offered by Ms. Fatima's opening statement, which, I must admit, has introduced one practice that was not before present, which is positive, that we still get some opening remarks at these points of the agenda, she told us and I think it's very good, that thanks to this law that we are adopting today, that what is called keeping records of obligations to international financial institutions and similar activities that are progressing in this country. With that in mind, I mean, I have to admit that I haven't quite noticed before that this law gets that additional quality, and I think it's something that we should, in any case, welcome, as well as the introduction of this law, the introduction of this relationship to the vault, if that solves the additional question, that is. the question of the existence of information on what is happening now in relation to international financial institutions, I think it is a quality that should be welcomed in this Parliament in any case. With that in mind, I propose, precisely invited to ask the Council of Ministers for the next session of parliament, what I was going to ask for, I must admit, under the agenda, when the conditions for entry into the V.E. were to be discussed. However, there is no need for me to delay it, because this is an opportunity to draw such a conclusion. I have here formulated the conclusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, according to these materials, the patterns we have received. In fact, the proposal for a conclusion is that, in view of this statement by the Ministerial Council of BiH, for the next meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers should prepare information on meeting the World Bank's and IMF requirements, to extend the stand-by arrangement in the light of the new World Bank's assistance strategy for BiH and the current economics, I wrote the crisis, but I allow it to write the situation in BiH. This is the proposal for a conclusion that I propose on this, just for a moment to explain why I'm saying this, because right now you're all, less, people here who have their own representatives in entity parliaments. Our entity parliamentary delegations have been briefed by the people of the World Bank and the IMF on what is now happening when it comes to meeting the relevant conditions for structural changes in the economic system, in order to meet the appropriate conditions that will allow us to overcome the economic financial gap, to say the lack of financial resources, which is now evident in the entity budgets, so 20 analoguely so will be in our BiH budget. Someone will immediately ask why in the BiH Parliament, when these are the conditions relating to entity assemblies. My answer is, I give it in advance, and it's our obligation, if nothing, because we're guaranteed by those debts. So, let me remind you, we are now in the course of a proposal, we are asking international financial institutions to give us new loans, or someone is saying we are asking, although it is similar to the application, the way we do it. We ask that credit be granted to us from, to extend these IDA arrangements, two loans, probably, about which the whole package, arrangements from the famous PS-... privatisation support loan, SOS-a-ka Power? three credit arrangements that should enable the recovery of budget gaps and which, above all, focus on the social problems we have now. I would pray, if you don't mind, if we don't open now, I didn't want to open it on purpose now, on the agenda point, give us the agenda point, rather than getting this prepared for the next session of parliament and the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare us with the relevant information, which by the end of September, if we don't meet the appropriate conditions, then we won't have the funds for anything in this country, in October or November, etc. I'm saying this in advance, really aware of what we can get into, and I'm obliged to say this as a man who at this point represents an opposition party, I mean, it's our interest, as serious people, that in October and November, we don't get into economic problems, even though maybe some of us could accuse us, we want to get into economic problems before the elections. I want here responsibly behind the parliamentary pay phone to say that we are ready to do everything possible to avoid any interruptions in financial co-operation, related to the financing of our needs by financial institutions. I'm willing to talk about this, normally, in more detail, but I don't think there's a need, and I'm not going to make an argument here on purpose now, because I think she's less - more, I'm willing to bring her out, if there's a different opinion that we shouldn't talk about this right now. Once again, we support the law that is before us and on this law, I propose this conclusion, so that in September we can welcome the problems ahead of us and we in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6240	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I believe that this conclusion, or service, will be forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers and that you will receive an adequate answer, a conclusion, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6241	I don't need a conclusion that the service will forward to the BiH Council of Ministers. I could have sent the request to the BiH Council without this pay phone. I suggest that this be the conclusion on this agenda point, our conclusion, that we ask that this be on the agenda for the next session of Parliament. And otherwise, if you don't think it's necessary, I'd like it to be known that you don't need it. Parliament doesn't think it's necessary, there's no problem. I, with full responsibility, say this, without any, absolutely no, I don't want this to be my personal or the club of MPs or the party from which I come, because that would be politicizing. I could have told Mr. Tuševljak, at a party press conference tomorrow, to answer this question, then you could have with full right to say that we are introducing 21 something that is not appropriate for the seriousness of the moment. I want this Parliament to do it if it doesn't want to, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6242	Okay, you're looking for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6243	Lagumdžija poslanik opened another issue, concerning the rebalances of the BiH institutions' budget for this year. In these 60 days, as we've been appointed, as a new government, we've worked intensively on two things, it's this law and budget rebalance. I ask that our debate go in that direction to plead for the law, and I will give, regarding rebalancing, information that is currently current. The ministry has rebalanced budgets according to IMF suggestions and real opportunities for entity budgets. The budget rebalancing of the BiH institution, which has requested new funds for both the administrative budget and the commitments paid under the due debts abroad. However, entity budgets have their minuses large, which should be covered by certain funds from abroad now spoken of by MP Lagumdžija. In order to get these funds and not to meet the autumn and winter with empty accounts, which means not only the administrative budget to question, not to receive salaries and not to work consular representations and other functions at the state level, we would question and external debt, the payment of external debt, which is the face of all of us, which is why the BiH Federation brought a budget rebalance and 8.7 million increased its commitment to the state budget on the basis of external debt. On Friday, the RS Assembly made a decision and increased the amount of external debt by 1.7. So the BiH institutions' budget cannot count on additional funds, which is the IMF's opinion as well. We had such a rebalancing on the day last Thursday, and that's what we can't show, because we've been looking at all our options. We've tried our revenues as realistically as possible to show, spend as much as possible to reduce, and that's what we've offered. Decisions are taken by consensus at the BiH Council of Ministers. One minister was against such a proposal and we could not forward the proposal to the BiH presidency, and the BiH presidency to parliament, as foreseen. We are now within a legal deadline of seven days, when we are trying to reach a consensus, and if we do not reach it by Thursday, that means by the day after tomorrow, we, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the Ministry of Treasury, will seek an urgent solution, because yesterday from talks with the IMF, have said that 5 September is the last time we have to adopt the budget rebalancing, which means that this body also passes as the most legislative body in the country, so that we can get those funds. Mr Lagumdžija is absolutely right, this is very urgent and very serious, because we are bringing into blockade and debt repayment and the functioning of state institutions, from Parliament to those commissions that are on the state budget. Please, I accept what Mr. Lagumdžija said. We may also have one to five more session of parliament to meet these deadlines that man spoke of. I deliberately did not want to talk about this in the opening statement, because I felt that, firstly, we would say about this law, which is the base, which is the legal 22 basis for creating a system in BiH's finances, and the rebalancing is our necessity, our reality and we, as the Council of Ministers and all professional services, and you, as a legislative body, must very quickly declare ourselves that international financial institutions would accept us as serious people, responsible and as partners.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6244	Thank you very much. We will plead, both on the law and on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6245	The respected presidency, colleagues, the law that is before us clearly detects the current situation in the BiH state, which, as you heard, has over 30 accounts, and accounts can be signed by more than 100 signers. I'm afraid none of those 100 signatories know what's going on with the other accounts, except his own one who signed it. This situation has led to this financial chaos. The adoption of this law at BiH level, and according to the ministry's proposal for a vault, increases transparency in the control of money consumption coming from entities. By passing this law, we will create conditions to really seriousise the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, because at any moment we will be able to seek consumption control, thereby increasing the dignity of the institution in which we are sitting. Only by adopting this law will the BiH Council of Ministers become truly responsible to this parliament, as far as money is concerned. The control of state financial flows will certainly change BiH's perception as a state of active corruption, but at the same time increase the seriousness of our foreign controllers, in the realization of the commitments they have made in relation to the state of BiH. By passing this law, it will be known through the vault how the costs of state-owned institutions are alluded to, and we will have the right to demand a presentation of individual funds spent and to obtain relevant information on this. None of these elements are foreign to us, and it's not difficult, given that entity governments function in the same way, through their finance ministries. So the adoption of this law is the way to start the end of the state financial chaos and I absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6246	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else here to discuss this?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6247	Gentlemen of the chairman, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, I support the draft law on BiH institutions' vault. As part of this agenda point, and in the situation of an ever-present public discussion and even public presentation of certain international representatives in the means of public information on cigarette smuggling and the loss of the budget of all BiH institutions, I am launching an initiative that international institutions, which are dealing with this problem, have prepared materials, and are referring to the World Bank, the IMF and the CAFAO institution, to deliver their analysis to the BiH Council of Ministers about how they have reached a figure of 500 million marks or dollars a year's loss of this country, only on the basis of cigarette smuggling. 23 Since we have also decided at previous meetings on the ratification of the Co-operation Agreement on Prevention and Combating Cross-border Crime, and it is obvious that these funds relate to cigarette manufacturers outside BiH. I believe that the BiH Council of Ministers should ask those institutions that monitor this issue for detailed information, and if conditions are obtained, to launch criminal responsibility against cigarette manufacturers, which rob the BiH state's budget at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6248	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a hearing?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6249	Dear colleagues, Article 20 provides for the law to take effect on the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH. I do not know if there is any particular reason, because it is common for this to take effect on the eighth day of its publication, so I propose an amendment, that Article 20 be amended and that "this law enters into force eight days from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH, and will be published in the official ballots of the entity".
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6250	Thank you very much. If there's anyone else to discuss or for the amendments, this is the bill. Is there a promoter, can it be made known about the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6251	This is what it says in the draft. [[You don't hear enough from the scene.]] Therefore, if it is,
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6252	Well, here, we heard, it seems to me that we're all for this law, we know of its need, with these supplements we've heard here. I'm putting this bill to the vote, so I'm asking you who's in favour. I'm putting on the amendment you heard from Mr. Halid Genjac. Who's in? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? I'm asking everyone. Of the 25 present MPs, 21 were for, therefore, this amendment has passed. I am now putting this integrated text of the bill to the vote. Who's in favor of the bill. Who's in, asking everything? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? Of the 25 MPs present – 24 voted in favour and this bill passed happily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6253	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6254	Thank you very much, here are the clear tones. Thank you very much. Obviously, co-operation with the BiH Council of Ministers will not only be satisfactory. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Moving to point 3. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. Excuse me, please, we have a proposal for a conclusion that you've heard from Mr. Lagumdžija, so I'm asking you who's in favour of that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6255	Text of the proposal for a conclusion. The BiH Council of Ministers should prepare for the next meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for information on meeting the World Bank and IMF requirements for extending stand by arrangements in light of the new aid situation for BiH and the current economic crisis in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6256	I'm asking who's behind this conclusion. Who's against this conclusion? I'm asking the entities, since we're not clear. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 25 present – 20 were in favour. 12 from the Federation of BiH for – RS 9 for. Finally, we have a proposal from Mr. Raščić that you just heard, so I ask you, who is for Mr. Raščić's proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6257	What's the suggestion?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6258	You heard him just now. Mr. Raščić, please explain your proposal or read it. I said the suggestions, please give them in writing. Or, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6259	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, in view of the apparent increasing campaign in the means of informing about the budget of all BiH institutions at all levels, including the smuggling of 25 cigarettes, and not only them but also other products, which are protected from this country, and people who abuse the border and this territory gain illegal, enormous property benefits, thereby directly harming all BiH institutions, at all levels, disabling their social policy, their policy within the framework of health, education and not listing everything that is affected by abuse. Given that this area of crime falls under criminal responsibility, since we have made a decision, as I have told you, on the prevention of cross-border crime, or in this case of smuggling, I suggest, since the IMF, the World Bank, the CAFAO institution, in the case of cigarette smuggling, have found that for more than 500 million dollars or marks, whether our budgets are damaged annually, I suggest that the BiH Council of Ministers come up with this information, the establishment of which cigarette producers are involved, because it is usually the producers of cigarettes of foreign origin, because these are the most valued and such are the most profitable and in this regard to preparing a lawsuit against cigarette manufacturers who abuse BiH territory and obtaining an illegal property benefit. Of course, in that chain of cigarette manufacturers, there will be others involved in the chain of smuggling and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6260	You've heard from the promoter's mouth now, and I'm asking you who's in favour? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, I ask who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Thank you very much. Of the 24 present – 21 for – from the Federation of BiH 13 for – from RS 6 for. Therefore, this conclusion has passed. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Thank you. We're moving to agenda number three. Ad.3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of BiH I would like to ask the promoter if he has an opening statement. I don't think there's any need to repeat, I think we already know everything. I'm opening a debate on this point. Here's who's answering.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6261	Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of reasons why I'm proposing, and I'm going to explain to everyone that this law is back in shape, because there are a lot of reasons for that. First, the correspondence official in the preparation of this law is abundant with questionable content, which exceeds the frameworks of democratic practice. First, the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, proposed information, i.e. the advice, which, among other things, says that, starting with the obligations set out in the New York Declaration and the Brussels Declaration of the Dayton Peace Agreement Implementation Council, on the 26th introduction of a single travel document for all BiH citizens, and then said in the second part of the text, a tender for printing books, a single passport was sent by electronic means to the addresses of four foreign companies, not to list them here. One is from Germany, one is from Switzerland, two are from Germany, and one is from France, domestic, of course, not, they don't know how to do it. Furthermore, given the conclusions offered here, many questions remain. The first conclusion says, it is proposed that the BiH Council of Ministers adopt information on the selection of the most favourable bidder for the printing of a single travel document of BiH, then, in conclusion, accept, as the most favourable offer, a Paris firm to print the unique passport. In a letter to the members of the Kolegijum delivered by Mr. Ambassador Džonson, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the Office of the High Representative have agreed amendments to the applicable travel documents law, which provides for a single state passport here, you Hrvat must have more influence. So it's a unique passport. I wonder, where are the MPs? Who wrote them the amendments? In parliamentary practice, amendments are written by MPs, and now they're written by ministers or something else I don't even know my name or name, and I'd like to at least meet them. Furthermore, in the light of the law that we have received, there is a section that says the explanation of individual legal solutions, and Article 2, so part of that Article 2 reads like this. Article 2 of this law covers amendments to the passport that need to be made in line with the conclusions of the Madrid Declaration, pardon, Madrid Conference, the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, the New York Declaration, I would like to stress this, adopted by the members of the BiH Presidency, which determines the appearance and content of the BiH passport, without entity features for the citizens of BiH, and the Brussels Declaration, the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, as well as the European Union's guidelines. Please, I have asked officially, as vice-president, for a member of the RS presidency to answer me about these misunderstandings, because it has been kept telling the people that we want to introduce a third passport, along with the existing two and three for those who do not want entity traits, so it was said and here is what Mr. Radišić wrote yesterday. Part of it or eventually, I'll read it all. Based on yours, it writes to me, your oral request, and regarding OHR's information that members of the BiH Presidency, in New York, in November 1999, supported an initiative on the common passport of BiH, and even its alleged content and appearance, this way I would like to inform MEPs in the BiH Parliament, as well as members of the BiH Council of Ministers from RS, that it is obviously about trendy disinformation. We therefore inform you that in the New York Declaration, whose background is well-known, there is a view on the need to introduce a single record of travel documents in BiH, and in the context of joint passports, it was only a matter of being able to work alongside the existing passports, without the entity markings, if any of the citizens so require, in which the existing passport system was not questionable. Gentlemen, on the other hand, you're clear on the content. In Article 2. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, amends Article 6 and makes it clear that so far travel documents, passports, are being abolished. So, gentlemen, who here deceives whom? I didn't make this up. I'm 27 with this text I met in preparation for the session. I want to come with arguments. I think there's someone here who's obviously tending, and I'd like to know who. Someone obviously, gentlemen, instead of helping, is seriously detaching and considering this very important but confusing information, I can't make a statement about this document before I get it, and I wanted it through you, to get information by forming a survey committee that would investigate all of this, which I had to read to you, and I thought I'd share it with you. However, since you didn't want this as a material of your own, because you refused to form a committee of inquiry, I can't give it to you, because I only give this to those who are interested in issues and not to those who are against one democratic, true, reasoned work, please don't make me think that as an MP I have to be against something I can talk about, but since all the inexplications are clarified, all of which are deposed, intentional, obviously, because this kind of unintention can't be found in one serious document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6262	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the guests, I, as you know, have requested, during my intervention of the business character, a debate on this important proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents of BiH, and in this respect, I supported the good will that Mr. Banjac had to give us to see the documents he has, on some of the grounds he has now explained, and I am still standing in favour of having these documents. I fall into those well-intentioned ones who like to be informed about the things being said, because how well I have followed Mr. Banjac's exposure, Mr. Banjac has received, on a oral request, a written response from a BiH presidency member. It really impresses me, because it is a rare practice to be able to receive a written reply from us on a oral request, it speaks of seriousness and questions and answers. I also consider this a good practice and a very interesting example of the behaviour of our parliament and members of the Kolegijum towards members of the BiH presidency and vice versa. On the other hand, I am appalled by the statement that this is a statement by Mr Radišić, a member of the BiH presidency, addressing MPs from the RS and ministers, i.e. deputies and other responsible figures in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of BiH, I understand how much I understand it, it is contrary... since there has been a proposal which, since we have asked a very clear question about this point of the agenda. I was very precise, and I said whether the BiH Council of Ministers remains fully on the request that this item be placed on the agenda and called for Article 139, which you positively pleaded after the break, as a Kolegijum. Now I'm reopening the following questions. I would pray, before I would be specifically involved in the debate, that I now hear the position of the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers in relation to the allegations we have received and, of course, my intervention concerning the character of the relationship, which is not clear to me, because as far as I know, members of the BiH Presidency have responsibilities towards all MPs and the BiH Council of Ministers as a whole and this extracting information for a certain part of the members of the BiH MPs is not exactly in my opinion, but it is a very personal belief of the MPs, I would like there to be no debate special to be intended for a particular round of MPs. I suppose there is such a practice, but I wouldn't want it to be inaugural, because you would be constantly introducing this home, which turns from one side to the entity, and then in some quasi home of the people, to measures in which he has no jurisdiction under the Constitution. 28 This is the House of Representatives, therefore, it is a council that has another character of action, and that I do not enter into it, we have spoken of it many times, I ask the Mr. Representative or the representative of the Council of Ministers to hear about these allegations of Mr. Banjac and these interventions in relation to the parts of the law their position so that we may open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6263	Mr. Mirko Banjac has an netačan quote, and then we'll give the gentlemen of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6264	Sometimes people get bored of explaining it, but what you're going to do, and it's an integral part of practice, so sometimes people hear it on purpose or on purpose. I specifically said that I asked for it, and now that's all I'm adding to prepare for the meeting of the MPs' club. Therefore, the information is mine, and that is why I specifically asked for the establishment of a survey committee, because it is not right that the information I personally obtained become material of this home and is not a practice that should be done so. Therefore, as a serious man, Mr Radišić has acted on an application that I can make quality preparations, with my colleagues with whom I make up a club of MPs, for this part of the agenda. If it's to be criticized, then I don't know what to brag about. I have no intention of protecting myself, because I have shown by the fact that I am seeking the formation of a survey committee, to examine all this, and I would not want to turn a good intention into a single pamphlet of a political nature and to criticise that someone is not responsible enough in its place. I think this is an act of good responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6265	I would just like to say that I am glad to hear that this applies to a club of MPs belonging to Mr Banjac, because I listen very carefully, I have been working, there has been a statement that it concerns the MPs from the RS and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH from RS. I am pleased with this correction by Mr. Banjac although he refers to his club MPs, everyone has the right to ask and that is fine, but it is quite the opposite, because it is completely different from what you said the first time. I ask once again that the Mr. Representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH address.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6266	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament - MPs, guests, I will have to repeat a few of the facts that I said in the first part of the debate, since both Mr. Co-chair and Mr. Banjac have made several assessments and questioned certain things. I repeat, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in collaboration with the OHR Legal Department, worked on the draft law on amending and supplementing the travel documents we now have. It was done on the basis of three valid political documents. I repeat, the Madrid Conference of 15 and 16 December98 in Madrid, where it says that the Council believes that citizens who wish to do so should be issued a passport confirming their Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship, without the fact that entities impose a differentiation. The Council requests the introduction of such a passport. That was almost two years ago. After that, the provisions of the New York Declaration, adopted by all three members of the BiH presidency, also agreed on the creation of a unique 29 Bosnian Herzegovina passport, with no entity label and only with the mark of BiH, in a Cyrillic and Latin letter. Third, the provisions of the Brussels Declaration and the Peace Implementation Council, which took place in Brussels in 23 and 24/05, explicitly states that the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications should start issuing single passports by September 2000. In addition, the provisions of the Brussels Declaration also call for the implementation of the EU road map peace, as a condition for BiH's approach to the European Union. We've been working to amend this law and that change concerns three things. First, it is technical – two or three technical elements, which exist in the passport, which were not in the previous law, I do not think it is even discriminatory. Secondly, a new law introduces a maritime book. The maritime shipping book is thus equating all BiH citizens, since sailors both river and sea, so-called This item, the ship's bookbook, instead of passports, allows them to travel and carry out their jobs and the third change is in a way that changes certain members of the law, in a way that now introduces a new single passport of BiH. The existing passports, issued under the applicable law, which are valid for a vast majority of citizens until 2004 or 2005, remain in force, means there is no additional financial burden for citizens. Citizens all one thing, one minute they're gonna have to take out new passports. For your information there is and very, let's say, there is a certain likelihood that a number of Western countries will be ready, as one of the democratic responses, to the democratic behaviour of us in BiH, that there is information of certain people that will introduce a easier visa regime, or introduce certain reliefs for getting visas for travel, especially in the Schengen countries, for those who have this new passport. It can and doesn't have to be relevant. So, the BiH Council of Ministers has, as in practice so far, worked. The Ministry of Civil Affairs, in co-operation with OHR, in the ministry we agreed, we had in mind all these relevant documents. Afterwards, the Council of Ministers of BiH prepared a draft prepared by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, discussed it, accepted and agreed not to go as a draft to parliament but because of all these deadlines and the urgency we have, means our obligation to print out the first common passport in September, to refer as a proposal to parliament. This has been achieved by consensus. I don't know where certain information now appears that has been sent to us by the members of the BiH Council of Ministers and members of parliament that something has been happening or hasn't happened. For Mr. Banjac and for all of us information that the paper you're using is absolutely no secret document.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6267	Why didn't you deliver it to us?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6268	The document is not even scheduled to be delivered to the BiH Parliament. It is an act to be discussed at the BiH Council of Ministers. That act is work material. He has not even been discussed at the BiH Council of Ministers or adopted. It reflects one of the works of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, primarily the minister, experts from the ministry, experts coming from entities and experts coming from the OHR, in order to prepare quality for the activities that should follow the legislation in parliament. I think that's how it works. This act, we can say, is not secretive, but it is internally character, is not official because it has not been adopted and that is simply why it has not been delivered to Parliament. We were supposed to be at parliament today and here to discuss the draft law sent by the BiH Council of Ministers. I don't think there's anything secret in that information, and for your information, for all of you, given the particular information that has been here, unfortunately, there is no company in BiH that can do neither money printing nor travel documents, in a way that meets international standards, international criteria and money, and in particular travel documents are working on the standards and criteria of the International Aviation Organisation. Unfortunately, we don't have those. If we did, it would be normal for that job to be done. Certain preparatory work, meaning, negotiations with companies interested in participating in the tender, were done in co-operation with OHR. I must say that both OHR and UN experts and experts coming from the RS Ministry of Interior are from two cantons from the Federation of BiH, I think it was Orasje and Tuzla and experts from the Ministry of Civil Affairs who discussed these technical issues. I repeat once again, the Council of Ministers of BiH, nor the Ministry of Civil Affairs, has made any commitment to anyone at this time. Preparations have been set, and in addition to letters from the OHR, both the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament, Mr Raul Džonson on two occasions. Based on these preparatory researches, they suggest that a tender-based job and a response to a tender based on existing analyses, so Mr. Džonson and OHR suggest that the business be entrusted to the French firm. However, I repeat once again, neither the contract has been concluded nor any obligations taken. The simple intensity and desire of OHR, let's say the Ministry of Civil Affairs, was to create certain preparatory actions, so that it could really be respected that the first passport, was planned to be a diplomatic passport, that the first diplomatic passport, a common, unique, printout by the end of September this year. A normal procedure from, say, making a contract to solving these technical details, paying and delivering these blank books takes about three months, and therefore certain advances have been made, but I repeat again, there is no obligation. The proposal ahead of you was agreed by both the ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers. Is now what Mr. Banjac is, I'll take my liberty and maybe rephrase. In other countries, it's called a parliamentary commission, what you called a polling committee. What should be the task, to conduct a survey, that is, an interview with members of the BiH presidency, with the OHR people, with representatives of the US government, what is specifically agreed in New York, what is the New York Declaration and possibly to review the conclusions of the Brussels Conference and the road map.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6269	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac has the replica, and then Mr. Dokić answered, and Mrs. Perkanović answered. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6270	Dear gentlemen, the first sentence read here by the Honorable Mr. Deputy Minister, said, "Citizens who want it." You're forgetting that, sir, that's exactly what you said first. It's quite clear, Your Honor, by applying this further text, you may wish for another six months, and after that they will take what they have. So, the declaration you first mentioned, I don't know now by heart, I don't want to, madridski said who wants to. Furthermore, a member of the BiH presidency that was in New York also confirms that there are all three variants, two existing and one for those, respecting Madrid, who want to do so. There's no such thing here in this proposal. And it continues in its letter of August 2, it is saddened that MPs must be able to cope with the letter. Don't hide, people, what you're doing, when you get into history at one door or another, it depends on which door you'll be open to or on which you knock. In that letter, gentlemen, the last sentence, I stress that the contract must be signed by August 15, 2000, in order to send orders to sources and to secure the delivery of the first diplomatic passports in September. Who, gentlemen, says he has to. So is that democracy, you come here and yell at the sea. We just chose you, and you must. Furthermore, if it is true, it is doubtful that there are no of our printing works in BiH that can print passports, let's say it's probably so, but we don't even know how to open free customs stores, but we have to give Hi... and we don't even know how to print ballots, Mađar have to do it. Gentlemen, do you think we don't know that IMT stands? There are some of you, to what extent, we'll question that. If we get this information, we'll get to the others. We have our sources, too, and we'll keep looking for sources. It won't work like this, and therefore Ibro, Mr Spahić, I am ordering, it is possible that Mirko Banjac will also request the resignation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that is possible, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6271	The replica has Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6272	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, it's not a replica, first of all, it's got some order. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, guests dear, I, first of all, must say that this is one positive and negative law. There are negatives, there's something wrong... law. There's one sentence right here, the ones that want it. I, as a citizen of BiH and as a citizen and as president of the GDS BiH, want to have a passport, as it is imagined in Madrid, what is a normal passport for every normal citizen of BiH. Whoever wants other passports has the right to have. So when I say normal, not to be an indication of the wrong ones, I'm talking about, that it's a perfectly normal, positive norm, it affirms the need and interest of a number of citizens, which will be increasingly, of course, by 2002, we'll have that passport, fortunately in 2004, all of us. Now I'm saying it as president of the GDS. Of course, the question of the resignation of the BiH Council of Ministers is being asked, Mr. Banjac, because you have now set two things. That's why I asked you about the polling committee. Did Mr. Gligorić or Mr. Rečica, therefore, come out on behalf of the Council of Ministers and say one sentence, which is why I asked for this intervention, before participating in the debate, that this proposal was given, following a consensus reached at the Council of Ministers of BiH, of course, that 32 means a lot to us, because that is the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH. There's no division of entities here at national level, I don't know what kind of, full, social, etc. The Gender program works immaculately. So the gender program is a nice program of gender relations, the same for the future and the present. I'm asking myself a question. If you're opening the debate this way and you're giving me support in your efforts to form a survey committee, I'm asking you to call it whatever you want. I ask you precisely, as a man who makes certain suggestions, suggestions, attitudes, etc. And, well, fortunately, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH also enters. I called then on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, as he now enters at this point, I call on him, we heard the word of the deputy minister. If this is the law under the chairmanship of Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak, presented to the House of Representatives, then I ask, then, to conduct a direct, precise debate on the law behind which the Council of Ministers of BiH stands, because this is very important. If we do this with... this and we start reading letters from different members of the BiH presidency and the work materials of the BiH Council of Ministers, we will block the debate. If Mr. Banjac says he's going to ask for Mr. Tuševljak's resignation because of this bill, then I think we can open, according to the Rules of Procedure, I've read the Rules of Procedure well, the gentleman will have to seek the support of some club MPs, open another team of debates. Since I've studied the Rules of Procedure, I recommend that I hear Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak's reply, do you stand, as the Deputy Minister said, firmly, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, behind this law. If you're standing, we're going to debate as the Rules of Procedure requires.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6273	The Republic has Mr. Banjac, so Mrs. Jovanović, and then the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6274	Here, replica, let me take a picture with this more visible Banjac, let the man replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6275	First of all, Mr. Spahić, this is a serious business. This is, please, serious business. I'd beg to be done in a dignified way. This is a serious job, and I'm asking for seriousness. I was looking for a replica, Mr. Spahić, to ask you for the seriousness of the situation, but I don't think so, but at this point we're a little hung up.? Please don't throw it away. I wanted the investigative commission to be formed with the aim of seeing if it was really true that it is as it says or that it is true that it has the possibility that it is in the Madrid Declaration and as a member of the BiH Presidency, Mr Radišić, has been found in the New York Declaration. I'm asking for it, gentlemen, and I said, if the Council of Ministers of BiH misused its own, to be quite clear, I said it is possible that Mr. Banjac would ask for responsibility and that's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6276	Please, Mrs. Jovanović has a replica, so then Mr. Lagumdžija has a replica. Mr. Spahić, I'm still running the session. You're asking for it yourself. Mrs. Jovanović. Here, behind this replica you'll be looking for a break. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6277	I'll just take a minute. Sir, your place is here. I'd like to ask you. I don't need...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6278	Okay, there's a here, ma'am, I'm not a bad picture of you. There's management here, as I say management, which I respect very much, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6279	Here you go, Mrs. Jovanović, and you're welcome to sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6280	This is just a message that we're always ready to answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6281	Please, replicas to listen and then give 30 minutes' break at Mr. Lagumdžija's request.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6282	I apologize, Mr Spahić's replica just because you mentioned the word "normal", today this is far from normal, including Mr. Tuševljak's behavior, because he came in from the door, he didn't even know what to talk about, so, I mean, really, both of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6283	Please, Mr. Prime Minister, don't engage. It's not fair, it's not democratic.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6284	I'm sorry that today we contribute that all of this is far from normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6285	And when something is abnormal and difficult to hold a session, then a break is given, and according to the Rules of Procedure, 30 minutes break. 34 Gentlemen, since we have a quorum, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] Before we start, just let me read the order of your call. Mr. Dokić, Mrs. Rađević, Mr. Malkić, and Mrs. Havel, but allow me, for the sake of obligations, to give Mr. Prime Minister Tuševljak the word to answer some already answered questions. Mr. Tuševljak, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6286	Well, I personally don't think there are any questions we haven't answered in the regular procedure. I honestly don't understand things a little bit, whether we're wondering if we're headed for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Travel Documents Act or not. We brought it in under the circumstances in which we brought it. I've learned some more details here in the meantime, which have appeared, but I don't think it's up to us now that we're judging these details here in some volunteer way or in any way, after all. I also think that elemental decency requires that we do not give parliament any new suggestions or suggestions as to how it will organise its work and how it will work. You have your job. We've done our job based on what's been done so far and on all these circumstances and factors, information and recommendations, you'll be here, hopefully in some normal procedure, agreeing on what you're going to do and where things are going to go. I think it's good for everyone here to say the following, and I'm using the opportunity to inform you that, and in conversations with all the factors here in BiH, and with the international factor, of course, I absolutely affirm the need for us to stick to jurisdiction and that absolutely on the principle of legality, what has been resolved for BiH, we should also do, because it's good for the people here, it's good for stability here and it's good, of course, that in the context of that nobody gets out of the jurisdiction that is prescribed. Let's do professionally and responsibly things that are regulated and let's not let volunteerism, arbitration and ambition take us beyond that. That's certainly not true good for anyone. I've found myself here with a variety of circumstances, believe me, I'm committed to this job that I do, work professionally, knowingly and responsibly. I know you're in a delicate situation. And now it's this pre-election campaign. Each of you, more or less, has certain needs and motives, but at the same time, I want to inform you that, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, we have reached one conclusion that members of the Council of Ministers of BiH and while this pre-election campaign must work professionally and responsibly and in the context of the obligations they have, demonstrate these principles and seek to make their share in these pre-election efforts such and promotional efforts, in a way that will not further introduce any elements of confusion or mistrust in our joint work and efforts. I can tell you that we have a high degree of agreement on the work we do together within the Council of Ministers of BiH and of course there are many situations where we disagree and, of course, there are a number of issues that we individually think differently. What comes before the BiH Council of Ministers has come exactly as it has been decided and concluded at the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think that's what I could say and what I should say in general on our work and on our relations and on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and on the jobs we do. We are preparing some other projects and some documents, which we consider important for BiH. They should see the light of day and here in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, that you, of course, identify and declare around them, but that, normally, by the same procedure, in the same way that 35 is normal and common for all states, will be forwarded to parliament. Of course, you're here now to do your job and realize your agenda and I wish you success in that job.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6287	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić. You have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6288	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in Mr Tuševljak's discussion, there have been words about how he appreciates that we are in the course of the election campaign, so, as MPs, representatives of different political parties here, have certain different views on issues concerning some points of the agenda. At the same time, Mr. Tuševljak, as if the Council of Ministers of BiH was composed of a non-political principle, says the BiH Council of Ministers has an agreement to work outside political campaigns, that political campaigns will absolutely not touch the BiH Council of Ministers before the elections. The BiH Council of Ministers will work responsibly, knowingly and legally, as if this Parliament were not working responsibly, consciously, under the law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and of course the interests of the voters and citizens who chose us, or those for whom we want to be elected in some other elections. Because of that, I'm going to be very direct. No Niko here has the right to teach MPs elected to parliament how they should work, nor does the prime minister, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that is beyond his constitutional powers, and I expect that the next time, and every other person, will be prevented by the chairman, or the College leading this assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6289	Thank you very much. I'm joining these remarks. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6290	I apologize to you for having to repeat some of the things I've been saying in favor of the fact that this law we're considering today should be delayed, to delay his consideration for another time. But before I make my concrete proposal, I have to make one comment and one explanation. It's a little inappropriate to say that, for example, The Bonaan Declaration was extorted, and that all others were democratic and came out of need, etc. I would not now, as Mr. Deputy Minister read to you some of the decisions contained in the declarations, read to you now the Bonaan Declaration, in which it was once again clearly defined as to how the passport should look and what the assembly, i.e. the two Councils of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, fully accepted and so came to the permanent document, but, indeed, it was an open question, which I will not elaborate here, that it had come to such an immediate request, probably not pressure, that this law was eliminated, that it was changed, and that once again, no one asked a question or asked a question and did not enter any declaration, which is why BiH has such a flag as it had, because you know who voted for that flag, and who did not vote for that flag, and even if it had not been conveniently at this home, when we spoke of the need that those laws, which the High Representative had been declared temporary, probably had no reasonableness, at that time. I must also tell you, in a number of these pressures, and I now responsibly argue that there have been pressures on people who have brought declarations, that this law has been constantly present in the declarations, among other things there has been pressure on the Council of Europe, to enter as an obligation for BiH to join the Council of Europe, but there, since there are people sitting there who know what Parliament is, say, your Parliament has passed this law, it is not a condition for us. When you agree to change it, you change it, it's for introduction. What I would suggest and I am now speaking for principled reasons. Really principled. Really pragmatic reasons. Come on, let's take the obligation to put BiH's coat of arms law on the next assembly. When we adopt that, we, under the current travel documents law, have the obligation to change the travel document, because the current law also states that BiH's passport will be on the cover of the BiH passport, when it is adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and approved by the BiH Presidency. We do not have the coat of arms adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, nor has it been accepted by the BiH presidency. Come on, let's take that step and then, I say again, and under the current law, we have to change the look of cover, and then we'll talk about another. I think the BiH Council of Ministers would also be one way out, so if you want to guard the honour, to come out now with a proposal to withdraw this law until conditions for its change are created. I repeat again, at the moment of the economic crisis, at the moment of growing social problems, when, even if we will, we cannot help the refugees to return, we are making a decision that will cost us at least 15 million marks, 20 million marks, at least that much. Because the current passport change will have to experience another change once we adopt BiH's coat of arms. So, my suggestion, I have two suggestions. One, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is here, discuss the issue of withdrawing this law until the coat of arms of BiH is adopted, and that we, of course, take the obligation to consider it already at the next session and within the next item of the agenda, and I will have a concrete proposal concerning all other laws that are on a provisional basis. If this was not in a position for the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we agreed not to go to the vote, this law would not go the way it is, I would remind you, it would really be absurd that if someone expected the High Representative to declare such a law valid, it would be absurd from two points of view. We in the Bosnian Declaration, gentlemen, to whom you call yourself, the High Representative is not given the right to declare the laws, that is clearly stated in the Council of Europe, I repeat. The second precedent would be that it would be the first time that the High Representative annuls one law and imposes another law. Don't count on that variant. That's not even for the reputation of this house. We have to take responsibility for everything we do to ourselves, not to move on to someone else. It's about time we figured it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6291	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I join the advice of my previous fellow MP Dokić. I fully agree with his proposal not to go with the vote of this law before we have an official, definitive symbol, the coat of arms of BiH, because that law itself would be like this, as a coat of arms law, on temporary grounds. However, I'm afraid all the work has already been done around the passport orders and they've already been printed and it's only a matter of days to split. All this procedure doesn't cheer me at least and I don't see it as democratic. This is more like forcing MPs to make a decision, as defined by the Council of Ministers, in agreement with the OHR or without the agreement, but we are always, minors always in a position to come before the final act. From the explanation of Mr. Rečica that it is not about the third passport, which 37 were speeches, which is like, we will say, the need of a part of the BiH population and citizens, who for some reason do not want to have a mark on any of the entities, and yet they are BiH citizens and they want to have a passport. In the end, it turns out that this is about a new passport that, according to Mr. Rečica, will be a very quick condition for getting any visa to go out. The mention of having privileges is, in essence, an indication that it will be not a privilege but an ultimatum to have such a passport and that it would be considered even getting a visa to go out. I am sorry that the Council of Ministers has not been more concerned about how citizens and citizens of BiH travel as easily as possible to all countries of Europe, to be less harassed in obtaining visas or to eliminate the introduction of visas for BiH citizens in as many countries as possible, rather than by adopting a third passport that will have the same visa procedures. I don't want to say anything more, except to repeat that we should wait until we finally check the law on coat of arms and make a decision on the final symbols of BiH and then go after all documents, travel documents, which will have a lasting character, not some temporary character, because after making passports, so on. a unique passport, with already certain symbols, which are of temporary character, and this passport, can be said to have some temporary character, and will have no practical significance. What will the citizens get out of all this? They'll get new expenses, and this is the standard on the verge of existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6292	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to commend the expert approach of the BiH Council of Ministers in proposing a Law on Travel documenting BiH, which allows us to have one passport, and I think this is the first step and condition that we have and that we can at least travel to European countries without any visas. So we are making one step on the road so that our citizens can travel without visas to European countries at least, and I understand this proposal, and that is why I absolutely support it and I plead to support it for its adoption. There are other reasons why I'm committed to this finding. It has the reality in BiH that, besides entities, there is a Brcko district and don't forget that the citizens of Brcko have the right to passport and then they will get the passport they need. Otherwise, this reality shows that conditions have been created to amend and supplement the existing Law on travel documents. There is also the need for me to travel to Belgrade now, I am not paying extra insurance, because I am from the Federation of BiH, because I see it from my passport. There is not a single European country that has something on the passport other than the name of the state, and they all have their own provinces and cantons and entities and what I know they don't have, everyone still feels for the citizens of that state and I think this passport allows us all and represents a significant step forward. I must say that, unfortunately, I accept the fact that today in BiH, we cannot print ordinary documents about what passports are, and I am launching an initiative that the Council of Ministers of BiH immediately develops elaborate and feasis study and obtains little equipment, machines, that we can print in our country, or at the Council of Ministers of BiH or at Central Bank 38 BiH securities and such forms, because we will need this much in the future, starting from currency to taxed postage stamps and all other securities, and such an investment can be said to be profitable for that. I encourage this initiative to be the last time we offer a job like this to some foreigners. We can and should do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6293	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6294	I've got to replicate to Mr. Bičakčić, as far as the Brcko District is concerned. The Brcko District Statute clearly knows and writes that citizenship to the Brcko District is by definition, or the RS or the Federation of BiH, and by this and by that statute, there is no need for any new passport. I'm afraid BiH will not start producing travel documents and living.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6295	Dear gentlemen, BiH, the state as it is here today is, there are travel documents that equally allow each of its citizens to be used in the way that the travel document provides. Which means, figuratively speaking, that the situation is not such that it burns under its feet and that there is no excuse for this urgency or for creating such a situation when this issue is being debated. Second, once passed, any law, certainly must, by developing a situation in life, be questioned, or it must be denied, changed somewhere, complemented, etc. It is true that the Law on travel documents, adopted by parliament, the BiH House of Representatives, is now being denied here and here today. As far as I understand it, he didn't predict, say, these ship's books for which he had needs. So there's a need to pass a law to supplement the existing law. However, such a law on complementarity, i.e. amending the Law on travel documents of BiH, as the Council of Ministers has offered us, is totally unacceptable to me in all other parts, except in that part, which I have already said is really a need and I understand that there is a need. It is unacceptable for the simple reason that there are absolutely no conditions to reach an agreement of all those interested in this issue in BiH, but I cannot right now take the impression that those forces, both publicly and publicly, are proposing a revision of the Dayton Agreement and the abolition of the entity arrangement of BiH, have come across certain functions and places for people from both entities, who have given them hope and belief that this can really be achieved. That's why I can't think of one folk here, which says, if you're a bundle too tight, I'm afraid the rope will break, and the beam will fall apart, and I hope to be honest that none of us wants it. That is why I conclude this discussion with the same proposal presented by my colleague Branko Dokić. Let's wait until we have at least a coat of arms, a flag and an anthem, because we know we have adopted it, the House of Nations hasn't been practically adopted yet, and then we can discuss the look of a passport, 39 that will have all the prerequisites to live at least 10-15 years, that it doesn't have to be changed. If someone like this is forced, or in any other way imposes a passport like this, the question is, how long will he live and what will happen next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6296	Thank you very much. Incorrect quote, Mr. Banjac, then Mr. Malkić for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6297	I apologize to my esteemed colleague, but she did it with a lapus. Please, I don't want to, honestly, that anyone here is talking about abolishing entities without at the same time talking about abolishing BiH. BiH came from the entity and while the entity will be BiH and vice versa.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6298	I'd like to remind you, I have a feeling we're going back to the old debate. Since I don't want to reopen the Constitution, I'd like to show you and it'd be real, you've got everyone in front of you and we're not talking things that just don't stand. No entities have created BiH. It's fine in Dayton that it's a continuation of the country's continuity, and that the internal arrangement, etc., we can read it, and if I get a little bit more worried about Mr. Banjac, then I'm going to react seriously, but now about that. But the replica is only about human soul fishermen. It's a very familiar title. Those who, I think, because I have a colleague who deals with literature, she will probably remember, Mrs. Rađević will remember where the name “Fishers of Human Souls” comes from. As far as the documents are concerned, I'd like to say something quite accurate. You remember what the debate was about the license plate. They were all national problems. Suddenly the tables came up and it became, as I would say, a personal and prestigious document for anyone who's a good driver, at least that way. So, quite good communication. The second document was a ID. Everyone was having a big debate about the ID card, there was a personal card with a unique home number, it looks nice and has all kinds of features, which will take a long, long time, at least, as they say popularly, a thousand years. Now, the third document, which I want to say something about. I absolutely cannot agree that the climate is being created that following a statement by the deputy minister and chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who made it clear that this document, this law, is a proposal to amend and supplement the law, is the result of a decision by the BiH Council of Ministers. He calls it the same Council of Ministers of BiH, as if it were really children's politicians and children's faces, as he calls us, it seems to me a matter a few days ago, or some of those who deal with this policy, allegedly high. I think it's pretty unserious. If the BiH Council of Ministers has come out with one bill and an addition to the law, there is a procedure in the Rules of Procedure and I demand that the procedure be respected. And as for the coat of arms problem, all the laws that Mr. Petrič passed, as high as 40 representatives, are on a temporary basis until the laws that apply to us are amended and amended, as well as the laws that we have adopted in the regular procedure. It's a familiar relationship from Dayton about the role of High Representative and this House. It was better that we adopted them, but it can't be questioned temporarily or any law or provision of a high representative as something that isn't valid. It's just as valid as any law we've passed. I am not defending the High Representative, but the principle of partnership between the Dayton High Representative and state institutions, and it also writes in this document. Since I'm very quick to list, I'll read this if I have to, and I don't need to think.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6299	I'm asking you not to abuse the replica. The replica can only last two minutes. Mr. Banjac has a replica, then Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6300	Gentlemen, I'm not happy to have to replicate, but in the article, in the position of Article 3. The constitution says BiH consists of two entities, the Federation of BiH and RS. It's the same thing, gentlemen, as in biology when you say a man is made up of heads, troops and limbs. If there's not one, there's no man, please don't let these stories go any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6301	Mrs. Rađević, please, the replica is short.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6302	It's a replica to Mr Spahić. Mr Spahić, comparing license plates for cars with BiH passports is this way, as you have done, possible for only two reasons, that you deliberately want to carve things or that nothing matters to you in life or that you have no idea about it. The registration plate on the car is completely non-existent and in no way can end its citizenship, and the proposal for a new passport, as in this law, abolishes the citizenship of the RS. In your previous discussion, you said, I didn't want to replicate, I'm going to use it now that you, as president of the civil party, want to have a passport on which there's no entity name and that any normal person will want it. Here, I want to tell you, I feel like a normal person and no one has ever told me I'm abnormal and I want to have a passport that says RS and that I have citizenship of RS and BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6303	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, I have come out for only two basic reasons, and above all to point out that what we are discussing, that we will all benefit from this unique passport, and that is, above all, the approximation of the EU, then making it possible, i.e., closer to access to visa-free regimes in the area of the Bar of Europe. I don't see any reason for someone to benefit from so much rejection. But the fact is that here someone has to show someone that something that in Bosnia, in this one as it is, can be unique, indicates that it's impossible or that, God Bog, is jeopardizing someone's interests. 41 Does it need me, as a citizen of the RS, to write to me that I am from the RS? You don't have to. So why run away from something that we will all benefit in a unique way. And if the protectors of national interests in this home exist, I am surprised that the same ones are not in the bodies that have already adopted them, that is to say, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, and also in the Council of Ministers of BiH, both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat, and in the BiH Presidency, too, and we now need to invent cold, or hot water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6304	The replica has Mrs. Perkanović. Mrs. Jovanović, you have a replica, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6305	The replica refers to Mr Spahić's discussion, when it comes to the Council of Ministers and the adoption of laws. I respect the work of the Council of Ministers and the creation and adoption of laws, but the Council of Ministers is the service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly reflects the will of the people. Therefore, we cannot discuss the opposite direction. So, the Council of Ministers should create laws as required by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, namely the will of the people that the supposed representatives of the people reflect in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The other thing, I wanted to, I'm going to supplement myself on Mr. Malkić's replica. Mr. Malkić, today, as far as I know, is popular and advanced with ID cards and without passports to go to all the countries of the world. So, the abolition of passports, and here in BiH is the introduction of another passport. Imagine how well you do to these people to buy another passport. 30 marks for a pensioner who has a pension of 45, 50, 60 or 70 marks is not a win, Mr. Malkić, but a loss. And that with that third passport, don't play any more on the emotions of this people, any patriotism or patriotism. This people want more bread and bigger wages and bigger pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6306	Just a short replica to Mr. Malkić. I don't really want to accept that the view of Europe is that it bothers them that there is a written RS alongside BiH, as it exists on these passports. They were a good part of the participants in everything that was happening in Dayton, where it was written which made up BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6307	The intervention has a Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6308	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I am speaking to you, in accordance with Article 55. Namely, you hurt him, that member, letting a colleague I would always let speak before me. Article 55 says the chairman gives his word to a representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure or not holding a set 42 agenda, immediately after he has asked. We started, we got, let's learn a little order. We received today the Official Journal in which the Rules of Procedure is finely shared. In accordance with that Rules of Procedure, when I asked for intervention in accordance with Article 55, you are obliged to give me your word immediately after the end of the gentleman, before the lady spoke, and why am I asking for intervention, Mr. Chairman? Because, let me remind you, the agenda item is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH. The Rules of Procedure, which we share, states in Article 61(2) that the debate on the proposed laws and other issues consists of two parts, general debates and discussions in particular. We, according to this Rules of Procedure, should have had this general discussion, and then the discussion of the details, in which we would probably come up with amendments that are not available, so it would be easier for us to get out. It is also said in Article 56 that a representative or other participant in the debate can only talk about issues which are discussed in accordance with the established agenda. That is to say, in the follow-up to Article 56, if he deviates from the agenda, the chairman will warn him, that is you. If he does not follow the agenda after this warning, the chairman will deny him the right to speak. I say responsibly, Mr. Chairman, that you, in accordance with Article 56, have failed several times, in fact, interrupted the debate. The replicas are run here, they have absolutely nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure and they have nothing to do with the agenda, and here we heard what it consists of, of which is the head, of which the body, of which the entity, of which the state and of which we heard something and it has nothing to do with the agenda, and it has nothing to do with the way the Rules of Procedure is defined. I'd like to ask you, my intervention is of a business nature. Take this session, this item of the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure, which is now divided into a table and, therefore, let's see if we are conducting the first part of the debate, so stop everyone, including your Mr. Banjac, who has gone and anyone else and my colleague Spahić, and if I am speaking beyond that and allow us to focus. If someone thinks that we're gonna do something about each other here, this isn't going anywhere, so I'd like to ask you maybe a little bit, though, that we're going in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. So we will avoid the debates that lead us to an election campaign, for which I am responsible here to say that we do not want to participate in it after this speaker, precisely because Mrs Perkanović said, about this bread to the people etc.(?)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6309	Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. I agree that we are probably not doing very well in this new Rules of Procedure, but, come on, please, I don't know what you're going to discuss, etc., and thirdly, I'm asking you for one civilization approach, that I don't always have to interrupt the discussion and I try it sometimes, but obviously you don't want to respect me. If we start to get out of this room, then I think it's gonna get worse. Thank you very much, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mrs. Havel answered her word, and so did Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6310	The esteemed representatives, the guests, unlike my predecessors, I will speak specifically of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. 43 I would like to say that in several members, these may be more principled or technical remarks, but they must be talked about as well. Namely, in several members, I would count 2, 4, 7, 8, it was found that what is in this law, or what should be on the passport, is written in Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian and English. I wonder what language he needs, for example. BiH or Sarajevo, except in English, is Sarajevo – Sarajevo. So we can talk about writing in another letter, but BiH is BiH, there is no language, at least as far as the language is concerned here in BiH. Sarajevo is Sarajevo, in all languages of BiH. I suggest that a happier solution be found, that is, if in these provisions, I had it written here, I wouldn't be out here now, wipe it out at least. The technical observation is that in these same members, probably somewhere else, the word side, side passport, side passport is mentioned. But it's a page. The text contains pages, and the word page has a whole other meaning. This error is also in the basic text, which came out two years ago in this same Law, but does not mean that we should be wrong in this one. Furthermore, in Article 3, it is specifically necessary to add that Article 7 is deleted and Article 2 is deleted. I think it would be a more favourable solution if these members of the 3rd and 4th were put together. However, it is obvious that the technique used is different when making this law, that one member is changed by several articles in this law, but Article 7 has been amended, Article 7 of the basic text of this law has been amended both Article 3 and Article 4 of these amendments, and Article 4 of these amendments has been said to add new points 2 and 3 which read, and then it is said 1 and 2. I mean, there are really technical mistakes that need to be corrected, but technically, or maybe not, I don't think it's a technical mistake, but it's essential, that this new one writes Article 1, I'm talking about Article 4, and that's actually supposed to be Article 2. That's the title of that article. This number 2 should not stand under point 1 of the first indent: I have suggested and deleted this point 2. I mean, whoever has the law in front of him can really understand what I'm talking about, I think it'd be too long for me to read those articles right now. If you want, I can do the same. In any case, it is equating, that is, these changes seem to be the way they are supposed to be done. In Article 7 of these amendments and additions, we have one exception, which refers to point 2 of Article 8, see here. So other than that exception, it's all written in these four languages. I suggest that this exception applies to point 3 as well. Namely, this exception refers to the basic data of persons who have a passport, and I suggest that this exception applies to children as well. I think it should apply to both the person and the child. Those would be some basic remarks. I'd like to say one more thing. At first someone here mentioned, I think it was Mr. Banjac, that he was delivered here with material in Croatian. I would like to say, in fact, that it is not true, in that sense that this law we have received on, I do not know, in Bosnian, because neither passport nor foreign or printing is a Croatian term. Therefore, we did not get this in Croatian and this is not the first time, and we know what the provisions of the Constitution are, that all materials are delivered in all three languages. So, when I talk about this material here and here, about the passport being in all three languages, and we don't get the material here in Parliament. I would ask that it be corrected, that we receive materials in Croatian in the future. I stress that here we are said to win in Croatian, and we have not received it. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6311	The Honorable Presidency, respected colleagues and respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, invited by the personal need to have one document that I will be able to travel freely across Europe and the world, without harassing the embassy, I believe that the way to such a passport is precisely this law that has been presented to us. Mr Spahić mentioned one reading of “The Fishermen of Human Souls”, Mr. Džoj Šušnjić, and I would mention that subtext that speaks of the idea of manipulation and manipulation of ideas. In that sense, I'd just like to look back on the look of a coat of arms that we're not quite aware of. It is an official feature of BiH until we agree on a different look. Bringing about the change of coat of arms and passport laws, I don't think it's correct, especially us, Mr. Dokić, who we participated in trying to create a coat of arms, if you remember. We were offered three solutions, we couldn't choose either, we were forced to do this. I think it's neutral and I don't think we should knock him out, because I don't think any of us are offended. I think, in addition to wanting to have a passport with which I can travel around the world, without waiting in front of the embassies, without being humiliated, I think we owe, as a parliament, a quality passport to our citizens. I don't want to be demagogue, I don't want to offend anyone's need to be what they want to be, but believe me, people who travel abroad, for various reasons, whether they go for emigration, for economic emigration or business reasons, have very big problems to get into a civilized world. We don't have to keep that passport in our pocket and move around our country. In that sense, it would be good to make sure that we don't get into a situation where our document of different appearances is a discriminatory of people who have chosen to be less or more colored in one way or another. In that sense, I would support this document and I would say that, unfortunately, this law is not even written in Bosnian, so this is probably written in a language that is understood to the peoples of BiH. So, I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6312	Thank you very much. Mrs Filipović. Excuse me, Mrs. Filipović. Please, for the quorum. Unfortunately, we don't have a quorum. But we can listen to this debate. We can't make decisions and we won't. We can lead the debate, we can't make decisions until we have a quorum. I'm asking the secretariat to take care of the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6313	The chairman gave me his word and I hope Mr Spahić will allow me to say something. First of all, the fact that someone had a problem with having this passport is a fictional thesis. I didn't hear anyone stop it somewhere, it was returned from somewhere because of what a passport looks like. I haven't spoken out at all tonight, or today, in today's debate whether or not an entity's name is needed. I was talking about a principled reason why I can't accept, at this point, that we're changing passports and accepting something that basically doesn't have a legitimate character. Gentlemen, and now I'm not talking to the gentleman who just called me, no law that hasn't passed through this assembly, for me it's not valid until the end, and that's 45 defeats for us here, which is still what there are those who want others to pass laws on to them. It's no accident that this law is about the flag law. I don't know how you feel, but I don't feel proud in front of my flag, and I want to have a flag of BiH that will make all three of its constituent people feel proud, and until as long as only one people voted for that flag, ask a question about how the other two will feel. Because it's known about the flag specifically, and I don't know who voted for the coat of arms. Please, I'm not even talking about what it's supposed to be and how we're going to make a decision, what it's going to say on the cover, but I'm talking about one principle, making a commitment to adopt a coat of arms, and then that coat of arms goes on the cover of the passport, and we're going to talk about other elements later, and I repeat again, don't make up the the thesis on problems, that someone's making us do what it says or what, that someone's going to give us conditions, that they won't give us a visa, come from here, gentlemen. It's dictated from here, so we don't get a visa because it says this or that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6314	Mr. Dokić, I would just like to say, I would agree with you if we were to be effective in bringing coat of arms and flags. Unfortunately, you and I are aware that this will not come easily. I'd like to correct the wrong allegations that this coat of arms and this flag has been voted by one people or several people. I will also tell you about the coat of arms and flag that the same people voted, however, these voices did not bring this coat of arms and this flag. You know as well as I do that this coat of arms and this flag, by its rights, has brought a high representative and he is perfectly legal and legitimate, based on documents previously signed by those people we ratified. As for our passport, Mr. Dokić, I am responsible for telling you that a man who wants to travel to Europe feels very, very bad already in his country in front of the embassies of countries for which a visa should be granted. If you don't believe me, go and check it out. Maybe someone's using state institutions to make it easier to get a visa. But go and see daily as much as there are from one and another entity of people who chat for days, hours by benches in really inappropriate conditions to get a visa, to possibly go abroad. So as a citizen, I want to have a passport that has more value. I do not wish to impose my will on anyone, but I would ask this Parliament to bring its interests into line for the sake of its people and to make it easier for other countries to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6315	Mrs. Perkanović, a replica, but please don't let Mr. Lagumdžija call me again to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6316	Please, there's no problem with getting a visa to look like a passport. Even the appearance of the passport does not contribute to obtaining a visa or obtaining it or not. The status of BiH determines when you will receive a visa and whether you will have it at all and how long you will wait for it, and the look of the passport is least important. These passports we have have have been recognised by the international community and by the OHR it has been verified. Therefore, it cannot be the look of passports that do not recognise the countries that have recognised the passport, but this is only that third passport and the introduction of a third passport is a new cost for the same citizens who already own 46 and passports that are valid for them from 5-10 years. I don't know why they'd buy another one now. I know why and it's business. There's something new to sell.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6317	Really, I wish my colleague understood me. Not wanting to deny what she was talking about, I just want to say that the passport and what we have in the passport is the emulation of what's between us in this country. So strangers don't need to talk much, and I think we need to make a deal. Because of us, we need to get higher values, because we deserve it all together in this BiH country, without wanting to impose anything on you without wanting to hurt you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6318	A man forgets what he meant by these powerful replicas, it must be written. The respected presidency, colleagues, after four years of discussions on BiH's passport, which we have often had in parliament, led to absurdities which are witnesses and our citizens of BiH, finally we have one logical, civil, state-right, regulated by this law, and I am in this sense of my heart and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6319	The replica has Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6320	Mr. Raščić, I just want to underline, you've just just said what I've been saying in previous speeches here. So passports are the emotionality of relationships between us. The current one says BiH has two entities. You want a new one where you can't see it. It's all clear what you want, but that's why it's clear why we won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6321	Thank you very much, and I hope that's what we've been through. This is according to the interpretation that is general, which is a special debate. They say they're in the proposals...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6322	Dear gentlemen, some of them got confused and even left parts of the estate behind. I think we're close to a solution to conflict, only we won't. We won't accept the reality that's here and now. BiH is composed of two entities and do not be afraid to accept it as soon as you accept it, all of us will be easier and three peoples too. So I think, when you're talking, I'm really quiet, and if I told you, if we wanted a coat of arms, we could have it today. Is it not the coat of arms, flag, and anthem that are not symbols, that they should symbolize something? They did. What's symbolizing this? What does that symbolize? And what do you want? You're saying that I have to respect, and this is the sanctity in one country, and that's the sanctity in one country, you want me to respect something that I didn't bring, because I don't want to bring, that's not good, people. If we want 47 of our coat of arms, and thank Bog we need it, to symbolize one state, two entities and three peoples, find a solution that will satisfy this, and it says in the Constitution, so there will be no problem with the passports or the flag. I responsibly claim that we have the coat of arms that we all brought, today it would be impeccable to speak on the subject of passports and I personally think it's a shame that we have three, and when we have three, and that's a shame, some will not agree with me, but the reason is that we didn't agree on the key symbols of BiH, about the key ones. Why are we running away from that? That's why, gentlemen, without any exaggeration, Mr Dokić's only logical proposal is because we need to vote here now, and we know the result. Are we supposed to go after this session to the press and the press are running and catching sensational news that someone said this and the other one said that? So who needs that? Why do we need that? Let's make an appointment that the next item of the agenda is the laws passed by the High Representative on a provisional basis. Let's put an emergency on the agenda and an anthem, excuse me, it's an anthem, I think we'll be there soon, but a coat of arms and a flag. Let's put that on right away. Let's work it out, if you want. If you won't, another thing, gentlemen. You forget today that I, on several occasions, asked Mr. Rečic to read the first sentence, says those who wish. This law cannot be passed even if we wanted to, if it does not say that all three passports will be equal and there will be no discrimination against any one. If you don't bring it in, then we've been cheated on in all the stories we've seen before, and then it was all a farce. If we accept it that way, then it will be meaningless to say, if you bring one, you will have the possibility of a visa-free regime, of entering other countries. It's just a prank to get to some goal that has a tendency towards one people or two or I don't know who, maybe three, and that's great, Mr. Lagumdžija, because I think, if there's a chaos of that kind here, it's tending to all peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6323	I would like to be quite clear, given that the debate is of general nature, to support the corrections of the lecturing-collective nature, but, of course, the effort to even the language text of Mrs. Ana Havel in relation to the proposed law, in various variations. You've got something here, someone's forgotten the property, and you've forgotten the papers. The property needs to be found. I would like to say, since this is now a debate, as far as I can see, a general debate has not been concluded, I want to support this law explicitly, because I think it is good, that the Council of Ministers of BiH has prepared a proposal for amending and supplementing the law, which allows us to make a statement about it. We are now the first time in opportunity, we have a bill, which, according to our rules of procedure, should enter into normal procedure. I would like to say that, unless there are any general remarks on the proposal to supplement and amend the Law on Travel Documents, I would like to request a statement from the Proposer, whether he accepts these remarks by Ms. Ana Havel, who only made concrete remarks from the whole of our debate and which I support, but we are asking, of course, to determine whether he can make these adjustments and thus those that are acceptable that we can access the other part. If there are no concrete amendments, I am also asking, as an MP, a statement by the Rules of Procedure, since we do not have an electronic vote and we do not have a vote to raise the ballot, I am asking, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, that the vote be carried out by calling, because it is the only three ways that exist here in our Rules of Procedure. If there were handlifting, I would accept it, but article 66 says: the vote 48 in the House will be held, can be done electronically, by raising the ballot or by calling. There's no fourth way. Of course, but this is about a vote that is extremely important, simply because in this way the home, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, is precisely determined by one law proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is of strategic interest and one commentary. Since I've been called six or seven times in various discussions, I'm not going to give a single line, I just want to repeat the sentence I said. All laws adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative are valid laws until the law is amended, as well as the other laws that we have introduced into the procedure. That's what our documents say. As for coat of arms, flags and anthem, until there's a new coat of arms, flags and anthem, there's no reason for us to have a discussion of coke or egg. This is about the fundamental symbols of BiH that should be applied in all laws. As far as I can see, no one questioned these ID cards, so on a document that also, the travel document, no one questioned the coat of arms of BiH, I don't see what we would bring him here. In addition, no one brings either the coat of arms of the BiH Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, you are ahead of us, responding regularly to the meetings of parliament, signed seal 1 of BiH's coat of arms. That's right. One day, when it changes, we can discuss it, so that I would ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, point 3 and point 4 are not mixed, but rather that we stick essentially to the amendments and additions to the law and, if there are no more general or concrete remarks, I request a statement, a reference, as it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6324	Thank you very much. Mr. Divković and Mr. Baković came in. As for the plea, I can't wait to plead. Mr. Baković, do you want it? He didn't give up the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6325	Honorable MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I think that many have spoken, have gone out here five or six times, and I say to myself, let's at least take part in it and so on. Just a few words to say. What the BiH coat of arms has brought to the international community, I think it should be respected both by the BiH anthem and the BiH coat of arms and the flag should also be respected as if it had voted this parliament, until as long as it exists as such and figures we must refer to it with respect. Otherwise, BiH should then be viewed in a different sense than is desirable. And one more thing, no matter what the quorum is, they won't vote, so I can speak. It should be discussed here whether the official view by the promoter is that only BiH is written on passports or that both BiH and the name of the entity, the Federation of BiH, or RS. To me as a Hrvat, this situation is inconclusive. I don't care if there's going to be either the Federation of BiH or just BiH or both of the Federations, because my people are small and my basic thought here, as representatives, is just to keep this people alive, not to lose it in all of this, and I don't think they're going to lose it. Whether to revive BiH in a centralistic sense or to preserve constitutionality in this way, today it is not the most desirable. I think, however, that small people will prove vital and that they will be preserved and I think that this bill on travel documents should be adopted and that this would mean that BiH is seen as a single current state, as one of the countries in which we live, and I think that it is far too much discussion and in marginal terms that they are being led, so much and thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6326	On behalf of the counsel club, a 20-minute break. There's no quorum, people. Be careful, it's time to take a break, but there's no quorum. We can't keep going. Gentlemen, we've been waiting for the quorum, waiting for some more MPs to come to the hall. According to information I have so far, we are no longer in this session, or we will have no quorum. Therefore, this session is interrupted, and we will schedule a session next week, probably, orientationally speaking, on Tuesday or Wednesday. You will receive written notice and other information on a timely basis. I'm finishing this session. The seat was interrupted at 5:30.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6329	Mr. Chairman of Skopljak, citizens and citizens of BiH, who you have determined to follow today, in accordance with our rules of procedure, the work of this session of the BiH Parliament, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers and the international community, I express my interest in repeating my proposal that I made at the end of this debate, in a very precise form. After the debate, we had a chance to hear Mrs. Ana Havel's amendments. We got them in writing, and they were the only amendments we had a chance to get. Today, we have a present president, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Spasoje Tuševljak, the minister of civil affairs, Mr Gligorić, in whose jurisdiction it is. I have asked a very precise question and we have received a precise response from the BiH Council of Ministers that they are behind the proposal. The only thing they didn't determine at that time was that there was no chance, given the developments in Mrs. Ana Havel's amendment. I said that if Mrs. Ana Havel's amendment is accepted, I would ask for access to the vote on the bill's proposal, amendments and amendments to the law, in the text as proposed by the Council of Ministers, bearing in mind that the debate in the principle and debate on amendments has been exhausted and there have been no other amendments. Finally, given a statement by the BiH Council of Ministers, Deputy Ministers and the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, they do not change the character of their proposal for the agenda and remain under the law. It is before us now to take advantage of the ability to vote, which I asked to be called, given that we have no electronic means and that our charts were not provided. So, I propose once again to approach the vote, because we have exhausted the debate, and on the other hand I would like to remind you that if we open a further debate, then I would like to open a debate based on the documents mentioned in the 51st discussion, it refers to the Madrid Declaration and the New York Declaration. I prepared these documents, and I would like to quote it originally, and since I personally assessed, after everything we had in the session last time, that the time had come to decide, I have sent this proposal and, if memory did not deceive me, Mr Ivo Divković had the same proposal and supported this request. I don't know if there's any other reason to hold this debate indefinitely, but I believe that we have brought the agenda point to the moment when the two MPs agreed to join the vote and after the fact that we have exhausted the general debate and amendments to the text of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6330	Rađević, Deretić, then Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6331	Dear gentlemen, what counterpart Spahić said is true. But I want to add to that what happened afterwards. Namely, I went out and asked for a 30-minute break after which we should have announced some of our views, which had something to do with the debate continuing, or whether we would accept the vote. Therefore, last time, it was not decided that the debate was concluded and that the vote should continue, but rather that the session was suspended in a 30-minute break, when, due to the departure of some MPs, it was found that there was no quorum. Therefore, no one agreed that the debate was over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6332	Please, there's a break. Unfortunately, we haven't had a quorum, so if anyone really needs to discuss it yet, we won't and can't prevent it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6333	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and the guests, I was not, unfortunately, for objective reasons, informed by the chairman at the last session of the Council of Representatives. However, I was informed of everything that was going on, at least on this agenda point, so just after the discussion of the distinguished colleague Rađević, I answered the discussion here, since the discussion was not concluded on this agenda point. I called for a few reasons. The first and basic reason was that I received the amendment law and amendments to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH for the preparation of last session. Unfortunately, this bill, which has been delivered to me, does not contain nearly what it should contain, or should be a reason and was an explanation to the Bosnian Herzegovina public why it insists on the process of amending and supplementing the existing travel documents law. I will, in this context, just point out that the rates went in that sense that if there are amendments and 52 additions to this law, it will be the basic reason that some citizens want to have a Bosnian Herzegovic passport, on the first side of which will be the name BiH, without the entity label, with the possibility that every other citizen, who wishes to have an entity passport, which is issued by the entity, with a sign, therefore, in the cursive name of the entity from which it comes. Unfortunately, from this material that I have received, therefore, from this proposal, none of it has any. So that's exactly what led me to report for this discussion. However, before I say a few things, give my contribution to this proposal, I must, however, not only to fellow Members and present, but also to provide objective information to the public in BiH, say a few things. First, the Bonaan Declaration, which was passed in the 12 months of '97. For years, she was the star of the passport-making guide, as we have passed the Law on travel documents. You all know well that the good six months have broken a spear here, in this highest legislative body of BiH, that this law is passed, with much discussion, with a lot of suggestions and with a lot of tolerance and respect, we have passed the Law on travel documents, and, above all, respecting the provision of Article 1st point 7th indent of the BiH Constitution. Unfortunately, even though it was followed by the Peace Implementation Council's instructions, related to the Bosnian Conference, immediately after that, at the Madrid Conference, which was held again in 12 months 1998, there is a terrible turn, where the same Peace Implementation Council in BiH opens the possibility, therefore, that citizens will decide whether to take a passport with an entity or without an entity label. In this context, we all know well, that I'm not elaborated on that right now, certain conclusions have been made, so also in New York, so, and at the New York Conference, and I would, in the context of these three conferences, just apostrophe of a few things. First, the inconsistency of the Peace Implementation Council, in this very context in which I have actually just said. Secondly, there is a terrible turn in Madrid where the highest legislative body is asked to amend the legislation, which is in a legal, legitimate way, in a regular procedure. Thirdly, most importantly, at least I'm so informed from the last session, I'd like it not to happen today, but I feel like it's about to happen, my intuition isn't cheating on me, that we're going to split up again, as MPs here, not for the first time or for the last time, but when I say again, then I especially point out this for the reason that this is a very, very important legal text that is here before us, or a proposal for legal text that we all need to make known. In particular, as a man, as citizens and RS and BiH, it pains me that individual political representatives of individual political parties are already largely exposed through public information funds, asking the High Representative that, if this proposal is amended and complemented by the Law on Travel Documents, it should be imposed. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that those who insist on it know very well what the powers of the High Representative are, and I am deeply convinced that the High Representative knows them, because by article 10, or aneks 10. Peace Agreement, High 53 representatives, formally interpreting Annex 10. The Dayton Agreement, it is an uncontested final authority to interpret the Peace Implementation Agreement, but it only interprets it. He does not create it, does not create a right in BiH and thus is not able to impose such a legal regulation, under aneks 10 of this Agreement. He, in fact, should help with his authority to adopt certain laws based on the BiH Constitution, to serve us, to help us to pass laws that are vital to BiH's existence for the benefit of this people. You all know best what position BiH is in today. Looking from a political point of view, looking from an economic aspect, looking from a social aspect and not saying other things that we all know well here. Here, I'm just finishing up right now and I just wanted to mention one thing that's very important. So here I have made one introduction, because in this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, it is not possible for citizens at all, therefore, if they were adopted to have passports where the entity's name would be retained in cursive. So, the story was one. We received a proposal, which is quite contrary to what was discussed, and this leads me to the conclusion that, in some order, the bill's proposal, namely, the law should be adopted and implemented by the end of this year, so since 2001 we would have passports on which more, and that would be mandatory, there would be no entity label. In this context, I am absolutely against such a bill and as it is, I will absolutely vote against it, regardless of the other opinions of my colleagues here in parliament, because I believe that not only am I as an MP deceived by this bill, but also the whole public in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6334	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić, Dokić and Tokić also reported, please agree. Here, I have information that Mr. Dokić is a little earlier, so, Mr. Dokić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6335	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that last time, during the debate, I had one proposal. Since the session was interrupted as it was interrupted, therefore, because of the lack of quorum, I did not explicitly ask to vote on the proposal. This time I'll ask for it, so let me repeat what I said and then, but I'll just say it in a few sentences. My proposal is to postpone the debate on the proposed changes, on the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents until both homes of the BiH Assembly adopt the coat of arms of BiH. In this law, it is intended to be installed on the backs of BiH and that is logical, but I would remind you that we do not have a legal or constitutional coat of arms of BiH. I'd like to remind you of Article 1st point 6. The BiH Constitution, in which it stands decadently, is decided by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and confirmed by the BiH presidency. Since we are right behind this item of the agenda, we have a point in which, hopefully, we will agree something concrete about returning to the procedure of those laws that are 54 on a provisional basis, for these or those reasons, I really don't need to rush with this law and that we should wait at least some time to see if we are at all ready to talk about three symbols that make up each country and to check ourselves, what our relationship is, among other things, towards the state that we represent here and whose highest legislative authority we are. So that's the basic reason, not to mention the elements that I pointed out last time, and I'd say only one, that economic factor, which is very important. If we're changing the travel documents now, it's fifteen million marks, and we're going to change it again when we adopt a permanent coat of arms. I hope that we will be so serious and so responsible, if we are not so far, that perhaps by the end of this term, if we don't do so, then hopefully, more responsible and more serious, which, in the next few months, after the new assembly, will adopt the permanent coat of arms of BiH. When that happens, then we'll have a duty to re-change the travel documents and 15 million marks again to spend on the travel document. That's what I'm asking for, I repeat, the proposal is to put the moratorium on the debate on this bill until a new coat of arms is adopted, so if you doubt the obstruction of the new coat of arms, there may be some reasonable time for that new coat of arms to be adopted. Unless it passes, indeed, the Council of Ministers, and I would ask the first and second ministers to listen to me, therefore, unless this proposal is adopted, the Council of Ministers has two solid reasons why I should ask that this law be returned to the Council of Ministers for review. He has at least two illogicalities. One illogicality consists of what is proposed, I repeat again what I said earlier, to enter the back on the cover, and I have already read what the Constitution says when we have a coat of arms. On this side, someone could launch an initiative on the constitutionality of this law, because the BiH Constitution, related to the coat of arms, is not respected. Another illogicality, directly, is that these amendments and additions were not respected or better said are not in line with those elements of the laws that remain unchanged. So, for example. in Article 2. The law on travel documents of BiH, the Law adopted by both councils, to remind you only, states: “The travel document is a public document proving the identity and citizenship of BiH and the citizenship of the Federation of BiH or RS. I would ask ministers from the Council of Ministers or the minister who proposed this to explain or say, according to these supplements, in which the member is proved identity and citizenship of either the Federation of BiH or the RS. From this new proposal, entities have been completely expelled for some reason, completely expelled, both from cover and from the front and anywhere else. Therefore, this proposal of the Council of Ministers is in collegiate with Article 2 of the already existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6336	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, since the debate has opened, I think it would be very important for further quality debate to hear the current position of the BiH Council of Ministers on this law. Namely, media released information last night about a meeting in Bijeljina, attended by members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Did members of the BiH Council of Ministers, including the President of the Council of Ministers, leave one position at 55 protein meetings and return here with the other? For further discussion, it would be very important here, not only for further discussion, but for the overall assessment of the current political moment in BiH, since this is one of the first, one of the few laws that the Council of Ministers of BiH, after receiving support from the ruling one-national political parties, offered to the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I therefore request a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers on the text of this law. Whether the BiH Council of Ministers stands by this bill so that we can continue to conduct a quality debate. Since we have connotations here that are simply not serious, I am talking about the alleged disputes of national, entity and other rights, I think the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers is very, very important. As for the position of the SDP, we showed it, about two years ago, when we offered a law allowing citizens to have a unique passport, and indeed we offered it after asking for many citizens from both the RS and the Federation of BiH. We had a long discussion, at least five or six times. There was a debate in the House of Representatives here and someone here has already been anticipating the alleged division of this house in these discussions. If there is a division, it certainly is that we here have one very often constant division of MPs who advocate the establishment of BiH legislation, in accordance with European standards and standards, and another kind of MPs who simply dispute the adoption of the law and therefore have such a very bad effect, and despite a series of sessions, in terms of the number of laws passed, in this respect, we will have information that we are somewhere near the parity between the laws declared by OHR representatives in relation to the passed laws in parliamentary procedure. I would, on behalf of the SDP, call on all MPs to be responsible, that politicians, representatives in this House, should pass laws and those laws should be in line with the general definitions of all citizens and peoples, by approaching European integration. Too many requests and needs have been repeated here both madridski and Brussels and the New York Declaration and too much has been said here, otherwise, about the declarative desire and support for European integration. This is a question we need to make ourselves clear. In light of this law, it is very clear that, proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, one of the decadent requirements for approximation, one of the most important preconditions of the relationship between the EU and BiH, is just passing one of these laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6337	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6338	For what reason?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6339	You're running out of time. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6340	What minute is it limited? No, no, I'm really interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6342	You've got five minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6343	I would, by the way, notice, purely business, that some MPs have spoken longer and you haven't interrupted them, I don't think it's the time but the arguments, or the the thesis that I'm talking about today, and I think they're very important that we all explain them here very responsibly together. I would, because of my obligations to the citizens, because of my obligations to European integrations, I would particularly underline a number of citizens who have spoken in terms of it, and this is mentioned in the explanation, in terms of the ability to work as sailors, to work as sailors today, BiH citizens, de facto, are not at all able to have that kind of work that goes directly into the core human rights portfolio and this Parliament and this institution should not challenge it, with a call not to postpone it, and that we do not make the division in this House of Representatives, that it is constantly passing the law, and that we adopt it today. I would honor Mr. Skopljak's commitment, the chairman, to discuss it as briefly as possible, believing that this will take place in the next session of parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6344	An incorrect quote has a gentleman in charge, Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6345	Ladies and gentlemen, I respect Mr. Tokić's views, however, because of the truthful informing of the public, in Bijeljina, no matter what the media conveyed, there was no debate of the kind he was talking about here. I don't mind that we are preparing and agreeing on the positions to be built in an argument at the BiH Parliament's session. So, the application that the constantly mentioning of the parties of national or others does not lead to the democratisation of BiH is a clear picture of one who claims to be a Democrats, while at the same time denying the democratic existence of parties that have a voting body behind them. It does not occur to me to dispute the existence of any party, of course, if it has voters behind it, and even more if it has representatives in BiH bodies or entities. This law, gentlemen, cannot speak of any unique and ununited passport. I'm asking that there be a BiH passport and that's how it should be done. That story is unique and ununited and it leads us to misfortune and disagreements and I pray that we don't talk 57 about those words, because there's no basis. There's a passport and there's supposed to be a passport. As agreed, we should do so by respecting each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6346	The replica has Mr. Deretić. Please stick to the false quote and replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6348	Please, I answered for the replica for the next reason. It is not the first time that certain floscules are used for this speaker, such as A short time ago, which is that the BiH Council of Ministers supported the ruling unilateral parties. I come from the Radical Party of the Republic of Slovenia. So our party is not a ruling party, but I supported the Council of Ministers of BiH, that does not mean that I Council of Ministers of BiH, when it comes to their work, will always criticise them, regardless of what they have received my support, if I consider that I have arguments. That's one thing. The other thing, I am deeply irritated by one fact, when here one of the previous debaters, so to speak, almost with a crying voice, asks that, and is always indicated, that we show responsibility, so it is alluded to this legislation in question, in order to get close to the Council of Europe as soon as possible, to express responsibility in this sense that we vote for it. I ask the question why so far the most important law has not been passed in these last two years, the electoral law. The electoral law depends on the continued existence of this country. Why didn't this same gentleman, who incessantly initiates these things, vote until today for this election law. He didn't vote because he didn't fit the political option he came from. That's why I, who comes from another political option, am not voting for this one, and I am not voting for this proposal to amend and supplement the laws that we have adopted in the regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6349	The replica has Mr. Tokić. I'm asking you not to go into very empty debates like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6350	My view of one-national parties may be denied if one of these parties really recognizes himself or if he has members of other peoples in his membership. However, what I wanted, the chairman, to ask you, that your attempt to take the meeting seriously, be guided by the way that the one I called and asked legitimately, as an MP, on behalf of the SDP Club, which is the Council of Ministers of BiH, the President or members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, to answer my question, that they respond, not that their spokesmans, regardless of the Radical Party, or Mr Banjac, are not responding because I did not ask any answers from Mr Banjac. My question was very clear. Of course, I believe they have the legitimacy to answer in the name of this Lord who is silent here. My question was very clear. To continue the debate, does the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak, as 58 president, stand behind this bill? I think that's a very important detail in this debate that we have and that, well, it's denying and some information in the media that is reportedly saying that representatives at that protein meeting have come back with a different attitude and opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6351	Mr. Tokić, please, if anyone is looking for a replica, I will satisfy your demands and I will give the gentlemen of the BiH Council to answer the question, but respect, I must give the Rules of Procedure the right to reply. Here, replica, there's Mr. Banjac again. If someone's gonna abuse it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6352	I don't answer to Tokić, because it's a groundless case, I don't think so, because a man is such a mental structure and I can't do anything about it, there's Bog's fault, but I want to say, I have the right to an incorrect quote and I guess I can say, incorrectly. Mr. Tokić, once again I call upon you that I will be glad that you do not mention my name, I will be honored and please do not do so. Secondly, please, call someone someone someone's spokesman here, not an insult to him, and it is an insult to what I said. I have no intention of defending anyone's position, but please don't do it for the purpose of this session. So I'm asking you not to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6353	I beg you, Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6354	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6355	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, then I have to interrupt the session if you're in that duel. Mr. Deretić, please, you have a short line, but we can't have a session like this, really. It's not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6356	I just want to explain that I'm the only MP here in front of the Radical Party of RS and we're not in any coalition with anyone. So neither can I be anyone's spokesman, and whether Mr. Tokić is a spokesman for someone from BiH or someone outside BiH's borders, he knows it best, and in this context, I pray once again, when this is being discussed, Mr. Chairman, I here, in any case, as an MP, have the right to act, because it is a direct attack on a person. It doesn't necessarily mean he has to mention his name and name, but through his discussion, it's unequivocal to anyone he's referring to, here, that much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6357	Here, I beg you in that context, don't use such methods. Mr. Tokić, I must give you the right to a replica, and then a Mr. from the Council of Ministers of BiH to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6358	I would indeed, in the spirit of the need for this Parliament to work seriously, ask you, the chairman, regardless of the arrogance, regardless of the tone that MPs are coming out of, do not allow insult. There's a decadent insult here. Of course, she, given who she comes from, I don't experience her that way. I've had insults from the likes of them in the '90s. In addition, some of these are in The Hague today, these certainly do what they do today, on the basis of principled debates, argued, will end up on the margins of others, not in The Hague, but on the political margins, but I ask you to ask your colleagues in principle to never mention any MPs in this context, because we are all equal here, equal and in the context of what the Rules of Procedure say, reduce, you bar, chair, replicas and your disagreements with what MPs say. As far as I'm concerned, there's really nothing I can do, Mr. Deretić. Wherever you recognize yourself, you react, you work, but I again appeal to the Council of Ministers of BiH to state its position on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6359	Thank you very much. Please, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, is there an answer to his question, that is, to the debate? Here, Mr. Tokić, I have a notice that no one from the Council of Ministers of BiH has the answers to what you asked for. Therefore, I continue the debate, and Mr. Čaršimamović, Mr. Spahić, and Mr. Silajdžić came forward for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6360	Mr. Chairman, my discussion could be more of an intervention to conduct the session, but since I asked you at first whether the discussion was concluded or not, I am what I'm going to say, in fact, for discussion instead of intervention. As I understand it, we closed the debate last time, closed the debate, and we should go to the vote. However, I agree that MPs can express their opinions, I have nothing against it, and for this I will now say my words, since all these discussions today were in principle, I will also say my opinion in principle. My opinion in principle is a positive attitude towards this amendment to the Law on travel documents. But what I'm saying is that we're starting to go in a pragmatic sense to run these sessions. Namely, we have been offered an amendment of the law by the Council of Ministers of BiH. That amendment gave us amendments from Mrs. Havel, and we should be focusing the debate in that direction. If there are no objections from the BiH Council of Ministers to Mrs Havel's amendments, then we will plead on the amendments and then we will vote on the law. I also support what counterpart Spahić said was to vote individually and, normally, everyone has their own position and can vote as they please. However, what I would like to resent, we either begin or end with such a dictatorship and forget what is our agenda point when 60 dots begin. So I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and not allow your replicas the way you led today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6361	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I was initially convinced that the Council of Ministers has nothing new to add except the position to stand behind the law it has proposed, because it was therefore returned to the agenda of this parliament a point relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Road Documents. So today it was really amazing that it happened overnight in a Belgian or any other regional craft at the BiH Council of Ministers. This would mean that the BiH Council of Ministers has requested, resigned or withdrawn from its post, because the law is a very serious matter and that, in fact, the Council of Ministers of BiH falls to them if their law does not pass, if it has such importance as this and it is very good that the Council of Ministers of BiH today and on the question of Mr Tokić, whether Tokić or Dokić, has no additional views on this law. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the law that we need to discuss in principle, we have discussed. I thought we didn't need a debate. I was convinced by the debate that it wasn't necessary and I expected that someone might have come up with a new amendment besides Mrs. Havel. So there are absolutely conditions for us to make the decision, but because the debate is open, I said I would ask for a word within three minutes, as far as we can find it. I have carefully reviewed all the documents and decisions of the Madrid Declaration and the New York Declaration, which were referred to by several of my colleagues from parliament. I want to read to you precisely, and it is only my participation, with a full request, immediately at the beginning to repeat my interest, I think Mr. Divković was clear there, and the other one, and now Mr. Tarik Čaršimamović, voting, calling, because it is one of three ways in the new rules of procedure, and I demand, if there are no other amendments, to approach it. Now, I'd like to read part of the New York Declaration, part that concerns passports. I want to read, for the sake of memory and for those who came here today, mostly because of citizens who don't have the opportunity to follow this directly, but interpret our sessions, even the MPs don't know what it was, but they assume it was. They're sorry they didn't participate, etc. It's abnormal work. Parliament must have the public work and must find the funds of the BiH Council of Ministers to directly transfer this parliament and not to have any subsequent memories and brains, and I am now reading this text. It's a New York declaration. Three members of the joint BiH presidency accepted a call from the UN Security Council to appear ahead of the same anniversary of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's exactly a year from today. They reaffirmed their commitment to the Dayton Peace Agreement, stressed the great progress made in achieving its objectives and pledged to face directly the tasks that have not been done. The BiH presidency reaffirmed its commitment to BiH's creation as a sovereign, fully integrated and multiethnic state with two multiethnic entities, respecting its three equal constituent nations. They condemned anti-Dayton forces that advocate ethnic hatred and division, confirmed that such views do not have their place in BiH politics, and reiterated their opposition, all threats, to the democratic process. 61rd position. The BiH presidency agreed that BiH's future is part of Europe. They further agreed that through this they would seek the full integration of European institutions and the creation of such strong joint institutions as they operate in other democratic countries, in order to move forward towards achieving these objectives, the three presidents concluded regarding passports. They agreed that the state authority, underlining, would serve as a central database and be responsible for BiH passports, and that the presidents would propose to the BiH Parliament, in this case, you see, the BiH Council of Ministers on behalf of the BiH presidency, which is quite logical and strong to support a single state passport with only BiH on its cover, written with Cyrillic and Latin. It is a statement by three presidents, three members of the BiH presidency, meeting with the Security Council, exactly one year before this. Since Mr Deretić called for certain provisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement and said he expects the High Representative and the International Community to support Parliament to adopt its laws on its own, I would like to declare, firstly, that all BiH institutions, which are involved in the internal plan under the Dayton Peace Agreement, have publicly, through their portfolios, through their chiefs' missions, announced that this is an identical interest and theirs to come to this project, thus enabling us to realise what three BiH presidency members have committed and to open the process in some way, to move on to the following jobs that are ahead of us and that we know they are very complicated.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6362	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Silajdžić and then I conclude this general debate. We're just going over the amendments. I have your name written down, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6363	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're wasting more time than we should on something that's gonna happen. A unique passport will be. We've got more important things to do. Our citizens expect us to do our job. I went out to say something else. The party for BiH and other patriotic parties have been insisting for four years on solutions needed by BiH citizens, at least in our opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6364	I have to intervene here. I think all parties are working on BiH's well-being. I really want to do it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6365	I accept your intervention, sir. So you're aware and you're witnessing here that a whole series of projects have been rejected, and now the international community is making it a priority. So there's a responsibility for five or four missed years. In BiH, one key issue is raised, which is who is responsible for all this obstruction. Who's 62 in charge of obstructing this law? The BiH Council of Ministers has one proposal. Do you remember how many times the BiH Council of Ministers has wanted a proposal and parliament blocking it, it is happening again. In my opinion, in accordance with the General, Peace, Framework Agreement and the Bonaan Declaration, the obstruction is a competent international community and has every authority to do so, and I am for the high representative to declare this law, that the citizens of BiH, like all other citizens, have a unique passport and thus move towards something other, large, towards a great Europe, and that is one step towards it. So, I'm in favour of the international community doing its job and declaring this law so that we can move on to more important jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6366	Thank you. I'm about to pass the law, because here the people have authorized us and here I look at my happiness, if I may say in my... Mr. Dokić, please. I'll give you one more word to discuss. Please, I'm concluding a general debate. Now, if you have any amendments, they will be read, Mrs. Ana Havel's amendment. Whoever has the amendments should choose to give and contribute to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6367	Mr. Chairman, I have a sentence I didn't mean to say. Indeed, at the end of what my predecessor said, this is to me the greatest defeat of one MP in the assembly of a sovereign and internationally recognised state. I ask you, Mr. Chairman, before the amendments are discussed, to vote on my proposal. I'm not looking for an individual, I'm looking for two fingers. I therefore ask that votes on the proposal not to further discuss this bill of amendments and amendments to the travel document until the assembly again puts the agenda on the table and does not consider and seek to adopt BiH's coat of arms.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6368	Thank you very much. I wanted to do this part of the job first, and then answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6369	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the discussion, which is now being held as some kind of discussion, which should lead us to some new conclusions, some new debate. Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić and MP Ivo Divković and MP Tarik Čaršimamović sought last time, two MPs and now a third, very precise approach to the vote. There are no amendments except for Mrs. Havel. They are, as I understand it, acceptable, because the BiH Council of Ministers has not said that there are some problems with these language corrections. Therefore, there is no way to return to the new voting procedure. Do you know what this reminds me of? To someone taking off the main course into some sleeve of our main decision. Our decision is to vote on the law that is before us. I asked, not because I think we should call people, but only because of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall include electronic, voting card raising or calling. Since there's no electronics and no voting cards, then 63 by calling. And as for the coat of arms, I can't understand that it's being asked, as in the debate on the passport, to discuss temporary laws that are in full force like any other law and we know that. Several MPs have just confirmed this and cannot return to the debate. And anyway, when there's a point of the agenda, we can figure it out in principle, because we have it... like a 4 or a 5 point. Please let us vote on the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6370	Mr Spahić, it exists in the same Rules of Procedure, too, until the conditions for electronic voting are obtained. We have not yet met these conditions, unfortunately. So, I'm just saying that the right to raise hands, or vote, is as we already have, quite legitimate and legal and not at all questionable, but on your request we're going to make a call.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6371	Three MPs asked for it, not just me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6372	It'll be adopted, no problem. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6373	I have a business intervention. Mr Spahić, why do you need to misread what is written in the Rules of Procedure? What do you need that for? What do you think we're so illiterate here, or so naive, and we'll keep our mouth shut just so we don't get in a position to go out for this pay phone, and you're looking for it and you're looking for it on purpose. I invite you not to do that. Here's why, sir. In Article 68, it is quite precise and quite clear: in the event that the electronic voting system is not usable or at the request of one third of the home, one third, sir, the vote will take place by hand, i.e. by raising the cardboard. So she has the word, or, sir. Secondly, voting by calling and it has the next member, so I don't read it, don't do it. We'll vote like that, don't waste any time on formal things.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6374	I first put Mr Dokić's proposal to vote, listen, you can adopt him or not, it is your right, but I must put him to the vote, or, his proposal, Mr Dokić, if I will paraphrasise well, delay the debate on the law until both homes adopt the coat of arms of BiH. Is that yours? Now I'm asking everything. Who's up for his proposal? Who's in? I'm asking everyone, who's against it? Who's restrained? The abstention is gone. By entity, there's no need. I think the vote is over. Of the 32 present – 8 voted in favour – 18 against. Therefore, the proposal did not go through. Please, the vote has begun. 64 I respect your suggestion, half an hour's break. We've got a quorum, we're moving on. [[PAUZA]] Since we have brought the general debate to an end, we now have only a statement of amendments left. The amendments have been filed so far by Mrs. Ana Havel, you have them in front of you, and Mr. Mirko Banjac. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to declare the amendments. The amendments can be presented, or suggested, to be declared, and Ana Havel has already done so. Mirko Banjac, if necessary, please explain your amendments and then the BiH Council of Ministers to give us their opinion on the amendments. Well, I don't even know where he is. I'm calling all the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Banjac. I also ask representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, if they hear me anywhere, to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6375	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to this debate so far on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, respecting facts and international documents, I came up with the idea that the only solution could be respect for international agreements, the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution. You know that the passport is also one of the documents to prove, among other things, citizenship. Also, you know, that is, of course, referred to in Article 1, point 7.a. The BiH Constitution and the same floor point say quite precisely that every entity can issue a BiH passport to its citizens, as defined by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and BiH can issue passports to its citizens who have not been issued a passport from an entity. In this direction, respecting what the Constitution says, respecting that sentence, which is quite precise in the Madrid Declaration, reads "citizens who want it" and respecting the statement of BiH presidency member Mr Radišić, which was agreed in New York, and at that meeting in New York, both RS Prime Minister and Mr Radišić and the other two BiH presidency members were at the meeting. Respecting all these documents, as well as the need to come to a solution, I felt that a compromise proposal is what it offers. The justification for this proposal is not only in these documents, but also in the Bosnian Declaration. So there are five internationally recognised and certified documents standing as a legal basis for this proposal, and I see no reason why this proposal, which I have here and which I have offered you, is to be accepted. So maybe I'm a little worried about the attention that comes from this exposure. I don't wish we'd come with our orders. I wish we could listen to each other's arguments and come up with a proposal like that. We need to understand that all other calculations, except for one truth, and it is that there is one BiH passport, and that is certainly so, that it can be in three variants or I don't know how much, it's something else. We can't say that in BiH there were two or that now someone is offering three passports. That's not true. There's one passport, according to what I'm offering, in three variants and three completely equal variants. In the end, it's democratic, that's how we talked and so far it's been discussed. I think there's one dilemma. The constitution specifically said it would be on the cover of BiH passports and coat of arms, when it was adopted by the 65 parliamentary assembly of BiH. We must respect that constitutional provision. Anything else would be improvisation. What is also worrying and becoming very questionable is that information from the Council of Ministers of BiH that they started printing passports even before what we are doing here today. That, gentlemen, is not good. Thus, this parliament will gain neither legality nor legitimacy, nor will it have a serious weight of work. I'm ready to talk about every amendment I've offered. I'm prepared to give detailed instructions, excuse me, explanations, but in any case, it's my turn, and I'm asking for a statement by the legislator on these amendments. I'll be ready to answer every question, if there are questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6376	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. I ask the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH to tell us if they can.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6377	Excuse me, please, I forgot one sentence. Mr. Tokić, don't worry. I'm sorry, really, when I see that you're worried, I'm really sick. Please, I am of the opinion that this is one of the compromises that can lead to progress on this issue in BiH. So I call on all those who want to compromise to show it in action now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6378	Thank you very much. I ask the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH to give us a statement on the proposed amendments to Ms. Ana Havel, number one and number two, Mr. Mirko Banjac, chairman. Is there anyone who can discuss this right away?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6379	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, fellow ministers, I, above all, want to say that I am pleased to have an active role in the adoption of this important law. At the same time, I, as a man, as a minister, want to say that we must take fate into our own hands and resolve and pass laws in the interests of our citizens, institutions, entities and BiH and thus say clearly to everyone, including the OHR, that, based on the recommendations of the Council, the experiences of Western countries and our specificities, we should really take the fate into our own hands and know that these laws need this country and these citizens, above all. When we speak in this technical and professional sense, from Mrs. Ana Havel, the amendments that have come, these four are of a technical nature and can be proposed to the Legal Service as a correction and I think they can be respected. 66 As for the amendments that have just come from the MP, Mr Mirko Banjac, I would have to consult with the chairman, i.e., you know that the Council of Ministers of BiH should declare amendments which are essential in nature and in this way, I do not have the authority to be specific and to say individually. At the same time, I would like to say that, since last time I wasn't there, even when there were talks about amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, there were many certain misinformations that followed it. I would like to point out that the deputy, Mr. Rečica, has done his duty highly professionally and responsibly, but I want to tell you that no contracts have been signed, no printing, what was it about then and all these misinformations, I want to be public, and as a responsible person, to deny and that you, MPs, you know, and I am going back to the amendments that we have before me. I would ask him to join us as chairman, so that, in accordance with the powers of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Rules of Procedure on the Council or the Council of Ministers of BiH, he could practically give his opinion, given that the Council of Ministers of BiH should decide that you, as the people who pass the law, know that. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer other questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6380	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Halid Genjac. Please, it's only about amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6381	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Kolegijum, I am obliged to inform you that this morning at the College session, at least as far as I'm concerned, we have foreseen this situation, and at the College session, I have suggested that the Council of Ministers of BiH be asked to hold a session during the day and to declare its amendments. It's accepted at the College. You know that the debate on this very important law has been held for two parts of the session for a decade, that the proposer of this law of the Council of Ministers has attended this part of the session until the break, which I consider quite correct, because there is no more important work than to follow the work of the parliament that discusses the law of the Council of Ministers of BiH and for these reasons, in order for the Council of Ministers of BiH to have its role in this legislative project to be achieved by the end, I ask, on behalf of the MPs of the SDA, that a half-hour delay be set in order to hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that the Council of Ministers of BiH be made known about the amendments in the way that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e.e. by declaring members of the BiH Council of Ministers. This may be the view that they have not agreed, that they have agreed and accepted amendments and that amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6382	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Dokić, but I stress immediately, behind that I am giving a half-hour break. I'm sorry, please, Kadić. I have to give the right to a break proposed by Mr. Halid Genjac, and I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6383	Here, I'll ask both you and the promoter to consider the next proposal. I agree, i.e. I agree that the Council of Ministers should consider the proposed amendments, but we don't mind, since we've had a break now, we don't mind now moving on to the next item of the agenda, and we don't get involved in 20 minutes, in half an hour, that the Council of Ministers should consider the proposed amendments, and when they're done, we'll go back to what we started to discuss again. I think that would be useful from the point of view of rational use of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6384	Thank you very much. Mr. Kadić, you have business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6385	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second session that we are working on under the adopted Rules of Procedure on the work of this House and I believe that we will need another one to study this Rules of Procedure well. In Article 93. The Rules of Procedure, excuse me, in Article 94, say MPs and MPs' clubs will be able to propose amendments no later than 48 hours before the start of the plenary session. At the same time, MPs and Members' clubs may propose written amendments that they wish to defend again in the plenary phase, after they have not been admitted to the commission. I don't want to, of course, overly formalize this one important thing, but I would like to warn you that the amendments that we have received are amendments written by hand, 6.9.2000, were divided right now on the table, not in accordance with this Rule of Procedure, but regardless, I would not consider it a formal remark, but I would simply point to it to know the future, amendments to the laws to be prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6386	Thank you very much. Business intervention has Mr. Banjac as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6387	Dear Members of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests. I am sorry that for the second time today, I must remind my fellow Members of Parliament, collegiately and socially of the abuse of the reading of the Rules of Procedure, for two reasons. The first reason is next. This law has entered the procedure according to the old rules of procedure and is the only way to end or return to the procedure and implement the procedure under the new rules of procedure. I don't mind any of the other attitudes, but I'm surprised that Mr Kadić, whom I respect and appreciate, as an expert MP, will not read in Article 94 until the end, where he stands, that after the debate has started, the chair of the consultations with the deputies will follow new amendments, only in the following cases, when they refer to new aspects which the commission could not take into account or, this important under... when trying to agree on two or more proposals on which the debate is being held. Point B, if you will, and a new approach, this is what I've done that's satisfied. Mr. Dokić asked to be removed from the agenda for reasons he explained, and another group asked for this to remain as it was. 68 I asked for a compromise solution and offered a compromise solution. So, no, it's true that this is written and there's no dispute, but I'm going back to the college session this morning. We made a deal. All the laws that have entered the procedure under the old rules of procedure must, otherwise, be completed and returned to the procedure under the new rules of procedure, and you know how it is. When a proposal is made, it shall be submitted to the chairperson and to the members of the Kolegijum. The College shall meet, decide which committee it shall send to, to the competent commission and to the Constitutional Commission, and to send to the MPs. The MPs shall send the amendment committee within the time limit. The Commission shall inform you that I am not telling you what you need to read. Gentlemen, this procedure has not been implemented for this law under the new Rules of Procedure and do not let us guess about it, it has certainly not been implemented, but it is therefore possible to implement the procedure in the old rules of procedure according to which this law has entered into the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6388	Thank you very much. Mr Spahić reported for business intervention, so Mr Genjac, then Mr Kadić, and then I take a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6389	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the same attitude of Article 94(3), the basic legislative procedure – plenary phase, I would also like to read, just as normally and can also understand this position a. and b. Here, namely, and under heading b., when it refers to new aspects that the Commission could not take into account, of course, there was no, we go under b. or when trying to bring two or more proposals under discussion. I would quite precisely like to reiterate that I have on several occasions asked, as well as other MPs, whether the Council of Ministers of BiH has any new elements or counter-proposals, from the fact that it has taken place in the Council of Ministers of BiH, to share or to any different opinions on what has been offered. And the last debate that ended and this debate, which continued and current statement by Minister Gligorić, says there has been no changes. The only amendments we have received are Mrs Havel's amendments, which were accepted in Mr Gligorić's statement and can be prepared within the framework of the ministry as a text that will be corrected in accordance with the amendments. As for the clarifications on Mr Mirko Banjac's amendments, of course, it is quite illogical to expect that when we concluded the debate and the general amendments and took a break at the request of one club MPs, it is quite regular and business correct, none of us, regardless of what you agreed on at the College this morning, expected new amendments, because you were able to deliver them immediately at the beginning of the session, to discuss it, and the Council of Ministers of BiH could have discussed any, any amendments to the old Rules of Procedure, I do not mind that you informed us of that. You can't keep us informed on the things you agreed on without informing the people you chaired. That's my opinion. I'm sorry it happened. I hope it's just a technical failure, because it was a surprise for me personally when I found any amendments away from Mrs. Havel. It should not be expected that the BiH Council of Ministers was prepared to expect any other amendments other than those that have already accepted them practically once and have now accepted them in a statement. Instead of going to the polls, after the adoption of the BiH Council of Ministers, namely, the Secretary-General, Mrs. 69 Havel's amendment not to discuss it, because it's accepted, we now have the opening of the debate, underlining, to read the business matter now on the following. And when trying to bring two or more proposals under discussion into line with the new rules of procedure, I want to make one statement that is quite clear, it reads as three members of the BiH Presidency have said, agreed that the state authority will serve as a central database and be responsible for BiH passports, and that the presidents will now propose to the BiH Council of Ministers and strongly support the single state, underlining, state passport, which will only have BiH on its cover, written with Cyrillic and Latin. If it were any, if the Council of Ministers had offered anything as a variant of some other proposals, that the amendments had brought anything new within this position from Mr Banjac, I would have accepted both the new and the old to continue the plea. I, of course, won't be able to, nor have I any reason to prevent the Council of Ministers from declaring it again, but, behold, the image is repeated again, Mr. Spasoje Tuševljak is entering and it seems to me that we will have a condition to finish as you requested, although I must say quite correctly, the amendment to the Amendment to the Amendment Law on amendments and amendments to Mr Banjac's travel documents, which we have received today, literally mean nothing more than a derogation from what is subject to the debate. The subject of the debate is the single law, the state passport of BiH, and these amendments, which are made here, belong to nothing else, but, in fact, by blocking, by delaying and I would say by exhausting the Council of Ministers of BiH to declare something that is not the nature of this law. In the nature of the law, it's not what Mr. Banjac offered. He has nothing to amend, but in the second form of a general plenary debate that has not given birth to any amendments to the bill. So, I don't know what Mr Banjac's amendment will be made to the BiH Council of Ministers. There is no basis here, in my opinion, for the BiH Council of Ministers to deal with the team, but if the Council of Ministers wishes, according to the new and old Rules of Procedure, if the College insists and if MPs will, I have no objection, convinced that the BiH Council of Ministers will defend its law, because it is probably the function of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6390	Mr. Banjac has an netačan quote. This is where I give my word to Mr. Genjac, so to Mr. Kadić and I'm finishing this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6391	Dear gentlemen, if he knows anything and understands Mr Spahić, there is nothing I can do about it. It's his personal observation, and I'm not affecting it. Please, I am quite precise, don't be angry, sir, I am quite precise and clearly proposing amendments to an individual member, who has the right to a business dispute with me? Where did he get that right? The other thing is, there's an incorrect allegation here. A member of the BiH presidency, who was in New York, publicly declares, on the basis of your oral request, on OHR's information that members of the BiH Presidency, in New York, in November 1999, supported an initiative on the common passport of BiH, and even allegedly its contents and appearance, this way I would like to inform the MPs and others that it is obvious that there is a trending misinformation. I, not to read further, asked the formation of an investigative 70 commission to hold talks with the other two BiH presidency members and other participants. You know what, gentlemen? I have the impression that you know how to vote and you're not interested in the solution. Thank you very much. Keep up the good work. Don't be sure you'll be able to handle that sort of thing. There's more laws, there's more international organizations, we'll talk to them about what's going on here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6392	Thank you very much. Mr. Genjac, Mr. Kadić, then Mr. Neimarlija. These are all replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6393	We are at the end of one procedure, and we are at the goal of making a decision, one or another. The procedure is what should be managed by this parliament and we are really at a specific moment, when one of the rules of procedure has ceased to apply, in the meantime, and one number of projects has entered the procedure under the old rules of procedure. Legislative legislation, i.e. the adoption of laws, differs significantly in one of the old rules of procedure. Since this is the case, this law, which has been initiated, is its parliamentary path, before the new Rules of Procedure has been declared, it will be dealt with in the way they regulate the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure. We didn't make any arrangements at the College. I only asked the College a question and predicted the situation, if amendments appear during the session, that we should ask the BiH Council of Ministers to take its position during the session, as are the amendments during the session, that the BiH Council of Ministers also hold its position on the amendments. I accept Mr Dokić's proposal that we do the rest of the issues, but at the same time ask the BiH Council of Ministers by the end of the session to allow and make assumptions for this parliament to plead on the bill. I accept to give up the break, to resolve the other issues, to move to the next points, but I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to create assumptions that this parliament is doing its part and to plead on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6394	I must say that the College of this House has led me astray as an agent, or deceived me. Namely, and if, apparently, there is an agreement by the College that, regardless of the new rules of procedure, this and some other laws that have previously come into the procedure, are done in the old rules of procedure. The chairman of this House did not inform us about this at the beginning of this debate, and that is why MPs are deceived, and if that is the attitude then the debate and reading of the new Rules of Procedure and the counter argumentation of Mr Banjac are, they may be considered lost time. The second is because, of course, he's been running the entire operation through the old rules of procedure, and I'm thinking that it's a new one, as logically, I've been reading the new rules of procedure. The second question now is whether the College has reached a good conclusion, so that all the issues that have come to parliamentary procedure, before the rules of procedure are adopted, are drawn by the old rules of procedure, and that we are doing new things in the new rules of procedure. I'd call the College, let this stay this way, I don't mind, because they're sensitive things, but I'd ask the College to think a little bit about whether it has the strength to treat the different laws here 71 different rules of procedure. I think that's a bad conclusion you've made. I think it's a disastrous conclusion that you've made, and I think it's a thing you shouldn't have done, and even if you did, you should have told us at the beginning of the session that we could break that conclusion for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6395	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija, Mr. Spahić and Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6396	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I have come out to respond to several qualifications that my colleague Banjac has used in today's reports, deeming them unacceptable and believing that the use of such qualifications does not contribute to the work of this home and not to contribute, but objectively encourages extremely unproductive work, i.e. waste of time. I mean, first qualification, with a mental set. The second qualification, of course, of fellow Members, of course, which I insist on, that my colleague Banjac, on two occasions, used an absolutely incorrect and unacceptable qualification to interpret the rules of procedure from his colleagues Spahić and Kadić, in terms of abuse in the reading of the Rules of Procedure. Abuse is the use of something that produces evil. Both Kadić and Spahić did not produce any evil in their reading of the Rules of Procedure, but contributed to a discussion that could be discussed. However, the use of the word abuse can objectively lead to something that is not good, and, finally, third, or fourth thing, in the last reporting, counterpart Banjac is again in his own way, in one very subjective language, in his discussions, saying that Ibro Spahić knows something or doesn't know. It is the right of every MP to know what he knows or doesn't know what he doesn't know, and it is ours to discuss with each other, whether the MP is right or wrong, whether he's correct in argumenting his views or not, and with that, absolutely, also, unacceptablely, I have responded to such approaches and to the steps of other MPs, when, fellow Banjac, you know how you will vote with one connotation that is absolutely unacceptable. Each of us has the right to know much earlier how he will vote, and each of us is responsible for his vote, and I think it is unacceptable and inappropriate to demand ahead of us that we feel responsible for our fundamental right to vote as we believe we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6397	They also have Spahić and Tokić and Banjac replica. Excuse me, Mr Spahić, so Tokić pa Banjac, and I ask you, since I will now ask the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH to give us their opinion on the amendments submitted or proposed. I'll ask you to refrain from further replicas and duels, and we'll move on to the next item of the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6398	I'm glad, Mr. Skopljak, that you practically suggested what I was about to say at this point. Now there are much more normal circumstances for a final view of what is the natural character of the debate in the BiH Council of Ministers' proposal for the law. Since we really have the conditions here and the minister of power and the chairman, it was quite logical for me to get a very precise 72 answer now, without any delay in relation to what the law itself is and what is the purpose of the law and what is clear to all of us is that the proposed amendments are simple, but I would like to read you Article 153. He can't be interpreted differently than he is. It reads: this Rules of Procedure takes effect on the eighth day since the publication in the Official Journal, the Official Messenger of BiH, PSBiH, No 48/00 on 17 May 2000. The messenger was published on July 25th 2000, the BiH Official Messenger, signed by the authorised service of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the publishers. By law, there cannot be something that has ceased to apply and cannot be done by two Rules of Procedure, by three wills, by sixteen documents, by fifty different variants as we have obtained today. I, therefore, warn, was that my intervention was that the proposed amendment to Mr Banjac absolutely did not co-ordinate with the law proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. It's my belief as an MP, it's an argument that I can make out of whatever you want. Arguments of what anyone said, after everything we've come up with with our bill or in the meantime, and what they think about some law, are things we can bring to the debate. The debate is over. The amendments are proposed. Mrs. Havel's only amendment to the normal procedure, we've joined the vote, there's been a break that's incorrect, because the voting process has been interrupted, I'm undermining, the College has done two things incorrectly.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6399	They have the results of the vote there announced.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6400	But the College must be consistent in the future. You are nothing but MPs, tasked with holding a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as we have adopted together, and I ask you, please stick to what it says, Article 153, this Rules of Procedure, on the eighth day and second, does not take into account the return of this law to the beginning of the debate. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6401	The Rules of Procedure also require of you certain obligations. Mr. Tokić, please. Please help us conduct the session properly. If you're asking me to be the Rules of Procedure, like a lot of people are asking, and I'm trying to do it, then you're doing it yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6402	... bythree different ways of deciding, counting in just as many ways. Further confusion today is introduced, that after the publication of the Rules of Procedure in the Official Journal, which we have been waiting for months, for unknown reasons, that today, allegedly, we can work partly in the old and new rules of procedure, we must not allow, because of seriousness, and I appeal to you, regardless of the intentions of some people here to make something out of this that does not suit the BiH Parliament, do not allow it, the College has no right to do so. Otherwise, this whole debate, everything that's going on, it's quite clear, the political positions have been obvious here for two years. What is painful is that people in every possible way, and even with this disabling of the existing rules of procedure, try to make it impossible for the citizens of BiH to have what they have. 90% of the people who have discussed here, including Mr Banjac, against passports – passports, on which only BiH has an inscription, travels with such passports. The diplomatic passport, Mr. Banjac, including other participants in the Belgian meeting, shows without the entity's name. That doesn't bother him. That's what makes it impossible for a certain number of people. That's not correct. There are other names for it, but I'll go back to my first discussion. I ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH, this is a very important detail and I support what Mr Ibrahim Spahić said, whether it stands at the point of view of his proposal, which he defined several weeks ago and which we are discussing. All other attempts, with a statement of one important law, which brings us closer to European integration, the whole debate comes down to something that is hazy, including that we no longer know what our rules of procedure are. We can't do that and we won't let that happen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6403	Thank you very much. I give another word to Mr. Banjac and interrupt further discussion as far as point 3 is concerned and then we move on to point 4.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6404	Ladies and gentlemen, people can speak, of course, to invent or have or have no arguments, but to present them as having them, it's perfectly normal. I don't want to answer because that would go beyond what I think about that problem, so I suggest that the distinguished colleague Neimarlija read the word "abuse." I refer it to the dictionary “Matice of Serbian”, “Matice of Croatian” in five volumes, Vujaklij’s dictionary, Klajic’s dictionary, or perhaps some third and that does not mean what he says, but let the distinguished colleague read it. Maybe he knows about another dictionary and let him read it. Don't give me anything I didn't say, and I would never say it. Furthermore, according to the business procedure, I support Mr. Tokić and Mr. Spahić's position to introduce this law by procedure in the parliamentary debate. Gentlemen, he can't do a little bit of it. Let's go, gentlemen, introduce this law to this Rules of Procedure and I'm in. There's no problem. Read the law enforcement procedure and tell us if it's respected here. If so, prove it, I will prove that it is not and accept your position to define ourselves to work on one of the Rules of Procedure, I accept and that is fine, but please, this law has not been introduced into the procedure under this Rules of Procedure. If we want to do it, we can, I'm in. As far as I'm concerned, some people are trying to stop something. You see, I want to prevent those who do not respect the Dayton Peace Agreement, international agreements and the BiH Constitution. We're all trying to stop something. Someone has arguments, someone doesn't, and I'm here to include those arguments to see who's there, who isn't there, no insults, nothing at all, and you, gentlemen, would like to take one word out of the concept that you don't want to know or maybe you don't know the meaning, so you might abuse it. I don't want to do that. I know every sentence of meaning and every word in that sentence what it means.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6405	It's time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6406	Three minutes, sir. Read the Rules of Procedure. It's not true, it's three. Please, I'm going to ask you to read the Rules of Procedure now. It's three minutes. I'll hold three. Furthermore, Mr. Tokić, don't do misinformation again, misinformation of the public, I, in my amendments, put the name of BiH on all three variants of a passport and you won't be able to deceive the public that I don't want to. That's what I want and I put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6407	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, expecting the BiH Council of Ministers to answer questions here, i.e. the proposed amendments. We move to the next item of the agenda, which is Add.4. Information on the laws passed by the High Representative, on the provisional basis of the BiH Council of Ministers, who can give the opening statement? Mr. Prime Minister, please. Please, if the BiH Council of Ministers withdraws at this time, then we have no rapporteur at point 4. So, I'm taking a half-hour break. Please, the proposal is an hour for lunch break. We're not fair, and then we're calling each other by business and by law. [[PAUZA]] We have a quorum, we continue with the session. We agreed to extend point 3, so to speak conditionally, until we got the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers. In the meantime, we have received a written statement which I hope you all have in front of you on the table, simply that, if I may paraphrasise and paraphrase, therefore, since there was no quorum of the Council of Ministers of BiH, standing here, and the session is scheduled for 7 September this year, it is a regular session of the Council of Ministers of BiH, what we asked for, we will only get after, I hope, that session. So, I think we don't have the conditions for continuing this point yet, so then the suggestion was that we go to the next point. We're trying to find some suggestions. Here's to being open, we're trying to find an appointment, or as soon as we continue, unfortunately, a session like we've been having so far. How about Friday? Friday's busy, unfortunately. We are three of us on Monday, the chairman, if that means anything to you in Zagreb. I don't mind. First time off is Thursday. Thinking has every right to conclude.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6409	We've got a few problems. Gentlemen, it might be our turn to hear the arguments, so we're here to find a solution together. I was thinking that we'd get a position on the amendments now, and there's no quorum, who's to blame? Second, you obviously don't care. Thank you very much. What do I need to get used to, especially...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6410	Please, let's remain dignified. We're looking for an appointment, indeed, which is possible to maintain the session. I'm sorry this one's been like this so far. Mr. Kadić, do you have anything constructive to suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6411	I don't see why we're doing this. I don't know what we want.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6412	Well, I don't know what we want either, so we want to look for a possible extension of this session, that is, to do it, because we haven't finished this. Mr. Kadić, so do you, Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6413	If, gentlemen, there's no chance of this point, first of all we need to see if there is or isn't, we need to see it first. If they don't, they have other points, let's go work. Why are we interrupting this? I don't see any reason to interrupt the session. Let's work. Let's see if there are any conditions to finish this session. I think so. This pitching, does this really make sense, Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6414	It doesn't make sense. Come on, please, discipline.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6415	Whether there are conditions or not, this point will be postponed for the next session or if we finish it, let's clear it up, but there are conditions to end the rest of the points. Why don't we finish them? I suggest we finish the rest of the points if there are no conditions for this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6416	Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6417	I think it's hard to find an acceptable conclusion after all this. However, one thing is quite clear. This point, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, is included in this session of House 76 of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly and there is no possibility that it can be removed from this session and put into a future session, it is very precise my position. Two, the only thing right is if we accept that the BiH Council of Ministers' position is completely legitimate, and I will say something about it, the only logical thing is to interrupt the session on this and wait for a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers. By the way, it seems to me that a session of the BiH Council of Ministers is scheduled today just so there is no quorum on it and we get this piece of paper to further extend the debate on this law. But it is already the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. members of the BiH Council of Ministers. What I just said, and you know that I am very well, very responsible for expressing my views. What I said, I'm behind it. The meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers was not called so that there would be a quorum on it or I could say vice versa. It's called so there's no quorum on it and we can get a new plot in this situation. But let me say it again. We cannot say without a decision from the BiH Council of Ministers on amendments. We can continue to work without a statement on this law, but in no case can we finish this session without completing this item of the agenda and that is what my perhaps key position is, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6418	Okay, please, I don't think we're even going to finish it, or watch my proposal right now, the sequel to this session, the only possible first time distance is by Thursday. On Thursday, which is the date I don't know, so Thursday 14th of September, the session continues. Mr. Tokić then Mr. Dokić, or vice versa. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6419	I'd just like to repeat what Mr. Kadić just said. If we can't discuss it, because we can't discuss this point of the agenda, please, let's continue what we can discuss, and we won't consider this session finished, but we'll discuss this point, when the conditions come, the next time you schedule to come. We'll come just for that, and if there's any more documents that we need to discuss, it might be imposed now through these two points of the agenda, and I'm going to suggest something to create an obligation for the next session, so we can add that to the agenda point. No, we're here. Let's do something today. If we could finish what we can do, I think we'd end up making a commitment and start doing it. There's going to be a suggestion that within these two agenda points we're doing something concrete right now tomorrow, here, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6420	Please, before I give my word to Mr. Tokić, the College's opinion is to continue this session, or to move on to the next two points, as far as we still have from the agenda, to absorb them, and this point, noting that the session is not yet completed and will not be completed until we have absorbed point 4, this session will continue on Thursday 14.9 if I am not wrong on the calendar. Mr. Tokić, you have your word. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6421	The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has the primary task of passing the law. I think it would be a public distraction if we were to skip this part of the agenda today and create an illusion that we're doing something. I think it is extremely unencumbered, with all that it says that the Tuševljak government, i.e., the Council of Ministers, is strictly holding its programme commitment, slowly, with all the responsibility of those who have supported and given such a Council of Ministers, I am really asking that the session be suspended here and on Friday, with a request that the College explain to me what these reasons are more important than the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from this Friday to next Thursday, I would like to hear those arguments. Which is an institution, which seminars, which is more important for MPs, representatives of the House of Representatives during these seven days. I advocate that the session be interrupted, because everything else would be a farce, creating an illusion that the College, along with all this confusion it brings, is now additionally making one new confusion that, past the Rules of Procedure, jumps from one item of the agenda to another point of the agenda, and will then return to some part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6422	Gentlemen, obviously we have two opposing attitudes here. One is to continue this session, i.e., to move on to the point...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6423	I suggested on Friday that you... I know, I know, it's gonna be okay, don't interrupt me, please. So let's keep going with 4. Points, and then the 5th and 6th agenda, and then, not finishing this session, so 25th, let's schedule the next term for the session. And we have a second proposal to suspend the session and proceed as soon as possible. I don't know who, Mr. Tokić, I can now ask for information about what's in the way and what's not in the way. The question is who's going to come to that session and if we're going to have a quorum, that's my question, so I'm asking you, I'm going to give you a vote. First, the proposal to end this session today, i.e. to suspend the session with the next note that we can, is the first term free on Thursday 14.9., to continue then, and the second is the proposal to continue this session with points 4, 5 and 6. I don't know how clear I was. First, who is to continue this session today with the items of agenda 4, 5 and 6. Today, right now. Who's in? I ask who's against it, I ask everything? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, I ask, who's to proceed? From RS, who's in? From the RS, Mr. Raščić. 78 Out of the 29 MPs present – 13 voted in favour, 13 against. From Federation of BiH 1 for – from RS 10 for. Therefore, unfortunately, this session cannot continue either. Therefore, on Thursday, 14.9., you will be informed. The seat is finished at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6425	Gentlemen, since we have a quorum, we can begin with the 21st session. I beg your order. We continue with the 25th session of the House of Representatives, her sequel. At this session, alongside regular guests, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara project are present, the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara project, and representatives of the public communication funds that I particularly welcome here. Of course, I welcome you all. According to our service report, the session is attended by 29 representatives. The absence of the session was justified by representatives: Ivo Mijačević, Bogić Bogičević and Zlatko Lagumdžija. The seat has a quorum for work and decision making, and that's why we can continue it. As you are aware, last time we interrupted the session at item 3 of the agenda, so after the discussion of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents was concluded. This was done because of the need for the BiH Council of Ministers to be shown about the amendments Mr Mirko Banjac submitted to the bill. Unfortunately, 79 of us have not received the BiH Council of Ministers' testimony until today, as the legislator of this law. On the contrary, we were informed that the BiH Council of Ministers had no quorum at a session held on September 7th, and therefore could not take a stand on the amendments. At his session, held just before the session continued, he held his meeting and we believe that we can continue to work despite this fact that we have been brought in, and that we are asking for further information from the Council of Ministers of BiH, if they have, in view of the situation, this. So I'm opening up this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6426	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, at the end of the second extension of the session, dedicated to amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents in BiH, I said very precisely that the text of this bill, which was fully agreed in the Council of Ministers of BiH and on which they were given, justified and correct, accepted, also, the amendment suggestions and remarks by Ms. Ana Havel, was prepared for a factual statement at this home, even talking about the procedure regarding this statement. Now I want to repeat precisely, since we're still fresh, we're not going to go, I'd say, with basic content or ideas and the meaning of our work. Our job was to determine ourselves according to the bill we received, which carried out all possible previous stages of the statement in the BiH Council of Ministers and in this home. As this item of the agenda, based on the new Rules of Procedure, was restored, I warned that the amendments we received from Mr Banjac could not at all, nor should they be considered in this context in which the session was concluded, that these amendments are returning to the BiH Council of Ministers' hearing, because they deviate from the character of this law and from its objective position. This is a law that is passed on a single travel document at the level of the BiH state and regulates one substance that cannot open a debate on the fact that the character of this law is now changing and that it is being questioned with proposals and amendments, etc., which will introduce a new law on three passports, on goodwill, etc. I said very precisely then in the presence of the now absent Mr. Tuševljak that I expect the statement by the Council of Ministers of BiH to be on the spot, consistent, in line with the proposal and nature of our debate. We brought in the debate, the debate ended. Mr. Gligorić said he accepted Mrs. Havel's amendments and conditions were created for us to vote. With that in mind, I now have no other way, of course, we can make 25 replicas about everything, but to invite you, as fellow MPs, to make a statement about this law in the way it is foreseen in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. On the other hand, yes, I also support Mr. Skopljak's request, the chairman, that civil affairs minister, Mr. Gligorić, is manifested, hopefully, in the spirit of what he said publicly through the media, the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it was accurately quoted, we have no quorum twice, but one fact is clear. The BiH Council of Ministers will not step down from the integral text of the Proposal for amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents. This is a statement by Mr. Tuševljak, as chairman, made publicly by means of information after the 2nd session of the Council of 80 ministers and has not been questioned anywhere by any organisation, any club, any MPs and any minister. For me, this statement by the chairman's guarantee that later, I would say, after two sessions, without quorum, that there was no reason for the ministry, or for the Council of Ministers of BiH to step down from its proposal and that it was understood that the nature and character of this law applied to one thing and that we pleaded on it. If someone is after the vote and a statement on this law initiates a procedure for a new law, it is his right to comply with the Rules of Procedure, but if someone insists that, in the context of one law that treats one matter, a single passport, and a travel document, he makes proposals and amendments that completely alter the character of that law, I think it simply takes us away from the moment that matters to parliament, which is that where he concluded the debate, there is a vote. What kind of vote it will be, should not be prejudged, it is a matter of every MP, and that is why I have asked for an individual statement, for no other reason. Whether it'll be by raising a chart or by hand, I've accepted at the secretary's suggestion that you can raise your hand yet this time and I don't mind, but I insist that this job be done and I call, as an MP, that we don't at first create confusion new ones. I have not misrepresented any man, please Mr Gligorić, as responsible minister, to create conditions for us to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6427	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić, on the note that you haven't been disciplined after all. I was just about to give my first word to the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but now the reverse is good. Now Mr. Deretić so the BiH Council of Ministers can give its opinion on all of this. Mr. Deretić, so... Excuse me, he has a Mr. Mirko Banjac replica. Excuse me, Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6428	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I will not enter at all what Mr Spahić said, how many arguments and legal grounds there are for such discussion, it is a matter of assessment. Those who know the law, therefore, don't want to get into it, but here I want, just for the sake of a stenogram, to enter that this is a public invitation to violate the rights of MPs. This is a public call. I've submitted the amendments. The BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Proposer, whoever it is, and he is calling for the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure clearly state the procedure with the amendments. I was just looking for the rights that everyone else has. It is precise and clear here that the amendments of Mrs. Havel, which suit him, have one status. The amendments I've offered, he wants them to have a different status. This is quite clear. I want to say that this is a public call for violation of the right of MPs. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6429	The replica has Mr. Dokić. Mr. Spahić, please stay.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6430	Madam Chairman, I'm really going to have a replica now. I won't abuse it, I'll discuss it later. I ask you to spare us the kind of discussion Mr Spahić had earlier. To say that on one bill, an MP does not have 81 to give the right amendment, regardless of whether he supports such a law, or completely contests it, is indeed an obstruction. When it comes to this bill supplementing the law, several times to replicate it, but I ask him, too, to stop disabling us, obstruct us, bring out false things and deceive us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6431	Replica has Mr Spahić
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6432	Okay, I accept fully as an MP the responsibility for obstruction that I am making for the adoption of this single travel document in BiH and thus shortening any possibility that we can continue to conduct the controversy over it. If what I have asked for in the past three sessions is obstruction, and what we have had the opportunity to hear, as amendments, some kind of support of the law, for making a decision, for amending and supplementing the Single Correction Act, I leave it, of course, to those who have closely followed and participated in the debate to judge themselves, and I accept full responsibility for the obstruction that I have done or done, in the struggle that Mr Gligorić or Mr Tuševljak, finally, in peace, declares what we are constantly talking about. One character and one content of the law and another content and the manner of discussion that we have about this law, in fact, may be how you want to interpret it, but in my interpretation of the most common, I take responsibility for the obstruction I have done towards the gentlemen who felt that they were turning to me, and I also now, once again, as promised by Mr. Skopljak, to address us Mr. Gligorić, to finally learn about this bill by the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6433	Please, session, though, I'm in charge. Mr. Deretić has a word, and then Mr. Kadić, and the BiH Council of Ministers gentlemen will have a chance after these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6434	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, I am now truly, at the beginning of this session, unsurprisingly surprised by this kind of bile discussion by Mr Spahić, which I do not think has any basis at all, especially the term of obstruction, at some point I do not think is adequate or appropriate to the situation in which we are. I am here as an MP as well as Mr Spahić and I can have an absolutely different opinion on the same issue, that does not mean that I obstruct or not obstruct the adoption of a certain legal rule. It is my parliamentary right to state my position. Therefore, neither Mr Spahić nor anyone else here can deny me the right or in any way silence me to say what I think. It's on one side. On the other hand. For the last time, as I recall, and this was the continuation of the second session, which was held on 6.9th, we interrupted the continuation of the second session, for the simple reason that we would get the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH on certain amendments to the Amendment Law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents, and afterwards the session was suspended. 82 Unfortunately, from the material that I received in the eyes of this session, it turned out that on two occasions the Council of Ministers of BiH met, that it was not in writing, therefore, declared here on the amendments tabled by Mr Banjac. We are still discussing amendments to the proposed legislative text, and I think it is quite logical that the Council of Ministers of BiH declares this, because we have always had the same attitude as before. In that context, I suggest you ask the question here, Mr. Chairman, of the following content. Who is in favour of continuing the debate on the proposal, therefore, the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents of BiH, without a statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that MPs are declared in one of the ways provided for by the Rules of Procedure of our Representative Council here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6435	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6436	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, therefore, for the plea to be made before someone from the Council of Ministers of BiH pleads here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6437	Okay, I'll put your motion to the vote. Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6438	I thank you, gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second extension of the session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, in which we are trying to come up with a solution regarding the Law on Travel Documents. I must say that it is quite clear that this Parliament and this House are in the role of hostages and incompetence, as well as the lack of the wish of the BiH Council of Ministers to plead on this issue. Given that, only two solutions are logical today. After three sessions, the BiH Council of Ministers had no quorum on two, and at one where the quorum was held, no decision was made, or was not made. The only thing that would be logical is to raise the issue of the BiH Council's shift today because of intentional or unintended obstruction of the work of the BiH House of Representatives, or Parliament. That's number one, and I suggest you vote on that conclusion. Under 2. The session last time was concluded by submitting Mr. Mirko Banjac's amendment. The content of the amendment, of course, that I don't want to go in. Everyone has the right to submit an amendment as he believes he needs it, but the discussion of this agenda item is over. The session was concluded, with the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers has to be declared and the continuation of the session today could not have been any different until the BiH Council of Ministers has been declared on this subject. I, Mr. Chairman, propose that the non-explanation of the BiH Council of Ministers, and they had the opportunity to do so, be treated as a lack of attitude, i.e. to remain in the original version of the law, and to vote accordingly. I'll say one more thing. It's the third 83rd time we've continued the session. There is no reason for us to continue the session on the 4th and 5th points of the agenda, because these are not laws, so we would deceive the public. This home is terribly late when it comes to the real problems of BiH. I'll say, it's not in the context of this. In January of this year, our voice is threatening us. No Niko deals with the problems of the economic situation, the social situation, here, Ibrahim Spahić has submitted a resolution, no one is working on the other. So we blocked all state institutions on the passport issue. What's the point of deblocking? The trip of ministers, prime ministers and deputy ministers to the white world while Parliament awaits their statement so that Parliament can work. Gentlemen, it is too valuable for this country that ministers can give us forecasts of when we will be admitted to the Council of Europe, not what we should do to be admitted to having tourist travel on the planet while Parliament is blocked. Because we have no attitude, and regardless of what I truly appreciate is what every member of the BiH Council of Ministers is doing individually. It's very obvious, and I repeat, I'm looking for two conclusions. First, that the failure to clarify the BiH Council of Ministers is treated as a lack of the BiH Council of Ministers' position, i.e. staying on the initial proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers for the law. This is under one and two, I ask that today, due to deliberate obstruction in the work of the Council of Ministers, Parliament votes no confidence in the Council of Ministers and the chairman, Mr Tuševljak, in response to the blocking of Parliament's work by the Council of Ministers in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6439	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić called for a hearing, as far as I can tell. I'm sorry, Dokić, please. I've got Tokić before. You want to let the lady go?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6440	Ladies always have the advantage in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6441	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, refers to Mr Kadić. We cannot plead here on the failure of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision or their failure to meet and their intolerance to report on the amendments. Treat as staying in their position. We must allow them to be made public, clear and loud, and on the basis of assumptions we cannot make any decisions here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6442	I will only be allowed to join in one sentence, that the position of the College was that we should continue to work, and whether this position of the Council of Ministers of BiH means supporting that text that has already been submitted or not, on that basis. Mr. Dokić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6443	Thank you. After five minutes of cooling, I hope, and the heating has been caused by my colleague from the Commission for International Relations, with whom I have to have a meeting and a deal, I hope more constructively than the start of his discussion. I would, in part, support Mr Kadić's proposal, but in a sense, I would modify it yes, I will try to make it clear, that the responsibility of the Council of Ministers on this matter is discussed at the next session when they are provided and their presence and when they are provided by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that, first of all, they are asked, in writing, to the assembly, so until the next time they deliver, which is why this obstruction took place, because we interrupted the session last time, seeking their statement in the break. They couldn't put the quorum together, and then we scheduled a session and created enough space for them to give us answers. They had one session, they had a quorum, they didn't answer on this issue, they had an appointment at the moment when all the ministers were present at that session, so they knew if they could come to the session in that second term, there was no quorum again, and I have to subscribe here, really, what I heard in the means of information, when Mr. Tuševljak, to the question of journalists that he didn't know there wasn't going to be ministers at the meeting, so every minister said, and I'm going to paraphrase now, a free shooter and he can go wherever he wants and be absent whenever he wants. I don't know if it's really a practice in the Council of Ministers, and if it is, come on, please, and we need to discuss it once and for all to see what it does and how the Council of Ministers works. So, let me rephrase, and I ask that before examining the responsibility of the Council of Ministers for all of this, because of all these obstructions that come about this proposal of the law supplementing and amending the travel document, the Law on Travel Documents, and secondly what I would suggest, it seems to me that we don't really have the conditions to vote on this law today. I don't think it's necessary. Nothing stands for this, but I would suggest that we continue the session at the next two points, because, regardless of the laws, I personally think that the next item of the agenda is also very important for the credibility of this council, because it's about laws that are on a temporary basis and it's good to try to do something for the rest of our term, as much as we light our cheeks. So, I think the next point is very important, important, as much as the one in the law, because it gives us the possibility, if we agree to, that, by the end of our term, some of these laws that are on a temporary basis might be brought to the point that they are permanent laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6444	Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6445	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ambassadors, I do not see so many reasons why we are calling on, considering or considering what the Council of Ministers of BiH wanted to say at the very clear letter that the Council of Ministers of BiH, at its session held on 7 September, discussed the amendments, concluded that this issue was discussed at the follow-up session, September 12th, and on September 12th, decided to consider this at the next session and in the meantime, because of the obligation to attend the Olympics with passports, passports, where there are no names of entities, I heard that Mrs. Bisera Turković and Mr. President Tuševljak had gone even with families, who have the same passports. Therefore, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers of BiH will not tell us anything, because, in principle, the Council of Ministers of BiH has defined itself as the main slogan of its work, that it will work slowly in this way and I do not see any dispute here that we are now struggling with 85 over that position of the Council of Ministers of BiH. And operationally, if you remember, at one of the previous sessions on this agenda, I mentioned a protein meeting, so I asked the Council of Ministers for the Council of Ministers to state its position on this law, as it was concluded at this protein meeting to remain silent, we will not get a statement at the next session, and I propose, in accordance with what the College has proposed, that we today plead on Mr Banjac's amendments and declare the law that has been given to us in the previous procedure. Simply everything else would seem truly inconclusive, in particular it would act unseriously from the aspect of the possibility of considering certain points of the agenda, which are information, as a legislative body. In that context, I support the insistence of MPs who are then to discuss Mr Banjac's amendment, since we have discussed everything concerning the law. We had an argument. Since the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have a memo like this that we have, to open a debate on the content of Mr Banjac's amendments, and in this context my discussion will apply, and you see this as a replica of some previous discussions or my remarks. Mr Banjac's amendment, legitimately invested, I think that indeed no one has the right to assess in the previous procedure whether the amendment is good or bad and whether it should be declared, on every amendment, and any request by the MPs should be made, it is the essence, the commitment, to introduce, in addition to the entity passports on which BiH and entity will be named, the possibility of a passport with the name only BiH. I will remind the Bosnian Herzegovina public, but also you, I assume you all remember very well that such a law has been included officially in the procedure in Parliament, as the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents in the procedure since the end of 1998, i.e. in 1999. I would like to clarify this, to understand the essence of the content, method and motivation of the investment of such an amendment at the last moment when it is necessary to declare the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. This law was initiated by Mr. Divković and I, according to the Madrid Declaration, in the meantime, since the Madrid Declaration, we have had the New York Declaration and the Brussels Declaration and the European Union's request, which no longer leads to, unfortunately, that citizens themselves, by the definition of which the passport will be declared, have committed themselves to what is the best solution, but insists, in fact, on a unique passport and according to the Brussels Declaration and according to EU requirements, which is one of the most important preconditions for BiH's involvement in Euro-Atlantic integration. I'll remind you what's on this amendment, about Banjce's amendment, said in this tall home, say 8th06th, 15th of July.In '99, 31.01 and 15.02 this year, it was said that it was against the Peace Agreement and the Constitution, that it was an attempt to create citizenship, that it was a communist manner that had been grown for 50 years and with which this parliament should definitely be crossed, that no one would normally propose such a law today. Those are Mr. Banjac's words, before he put such a law himself into it, and I, as a matter of fact, brought all these stenograms here, as an argument. Mr. Deretić was less inventive and he generally referred to only one clear formulation. That the amendment, or that law, is this possibility, to determine the possibility of a passport only with the name BiH, against the Serb people and that it is very clear, white, that this is a continuation and that I do not list all the syntagms that were related to such formulations. Mr. Špirić, who, meanwhile, abolished his party, re-activated it, and became Deputy Minister of Human Rights, said that such a law, 86, opened the possibility of establishing a passport that would be without the entity's name, directly violates BiH's territorial and political structure and that whoever seeks such a thing should go to another country to live. He shouldn't live here. These are very large words, which fall within the domain of insult, so consider everything as a quote that stands here, because it is not interrupted, because it would be very ugly to say something like this about a legitimate amendment, a legitimate MP – a representative of Banjac, regarding this law. These are the words that are spoken. I want to leave to the Bosnian Herzegovina public what is behind the change of attitude and commitment that now most of the MPs who were quick to attack such a commitment, two years ago, are now being classified as advocates of such solutions. Let me say this as a representative of the SDP. There's an attempt at obstruction, a shift in defence of obstruction. Obstruction, after the Madrid Declaration, was not even allowed. The obstruction today, following the Brussels Declaration, allows for such an opportunity and to extend the adoption and existence of a normal passport, a travel document for BiH. I will also say here that it is devastating for the RS that its representatives are continuously, or most of the representatives in this House of Representatives, for months refuses something that will later be accepted and that will later be accepted not only by this home, but also by the citizens, I will specify only illustrations for a unique license plate and a whole series of other legal acts, if we can do so under the information, when we have this information about imposing these passports. I, for all of this, ask that the amendment of Mr Banjac be made known, because he is legitimate - legal, but at the same time I want the whole public, including Banjac, to remind myself of what he said about himself and his amendment, just a few months ago or a year ago, including other colleagues from RS. I call on Parliament to vote this law, of course, some will respect me again as I predict too much, I do not believe this parliament will vote this law, I do not believe that this Parliament, Mr Kadić, will also vote against Mr Tuševljak and his team, but I am firmly convinced that the people, the peoples, the citizens of BiH, will vote no confidence in the parliamentary majority, who acted here as most of the obstructions, in the November '90 elections. And this year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6446	I'm asking you not to go into an election campaign. This isn't right.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6447	It's not this, sir, election campaign, but these are the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6448	Unfortunately, it is. The replica has Mr. Banjac, Mr. Deretić, and Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6449	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I don't want to get into any controversy, I just want to read what it says. Of course, Hitler, like him, knew how to move a decimal to make a change of content, it's known in history. Therefore, I suggest that a stenogram be delivered with these discussions, but complete. I don't mind a stenogram being delivered, because then the truth will be known, and here I just want to read three 87 things. One is about this proposal to amend and supplement the law discussed by MP Tokić and he says nicely, a person who wants to receive a passport on the front of the cover, under the word BiH does not stand the entity's inscription. Here's the law. Is he saying the same thing now or not? They heard the citizens, the MPs heard what he said. Secondly, I want to read, for the sake of the public of BiH, and those who have not read it, Article 1, point 7, suba) of the BiH Constitution. A BiH citizen abroad enjoys the protection of BiH. Any entity can issue a BiH passport to its citizens as defined by the Parliamentary Assembly. BiH can issue passports to its citizens who have not been issued a passport from one of the entities. There is a central record of all passports issued by entities and BiH. This is quite clear whether the entities are entitled or not to a passport. I quote the position in the Madrid Declaration. The Council believes that BiH citizens should be able, if they wish, to have a passport confirming their bh. citizenship, no imposition, defacto, entity distinction, if they want to. No comment. I've read it all. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6450	The replica was further reported by Mr Deretić, so Mrs Mara Perkanović. Mr. Špirić, do you want a debate or a replica? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6451	In Mr. Tokić's discussion, normally in his manner, well, among other things, he said it's not normal what the passport looks like today. There's a lot of things here that aren't normal. It's just now read. A decadent provision of the BiH Constitution has been read, where Parliament can determine what shape should have a passport. Well, we did it. We have legislation, however, and with these passports, we travel around the world. I have so far traveled, so where it stands, alongside the name BiH in cursiveness and the sign of RS as one of the two equal entities. And I don't see what's wrong with that? It is not normal, however, that from one part of this House, therefore, MPs from one entity, in every way possible, insist on something being forced at all costs, with an explanation that the international community is looking for it. So far, who's had a problem crossing the border with a passport indicating the name of an entity? Niko. I, who travel a lot and go to Budapest tomorrow, certainly won't have a problem with that. But you all know exactly what the point is. So the point is to minimize in a specific case the RS entity. I am deeply convinced that 98% of the population in the RS is against erasing in the cursive name of the RS on the first side of the BiH passport. Therefore, and as we have a passport, I believe that it is in accordance with the Constitution, that it has been passed in a legal manner, therefore, in a parliamentary procedure, and that it is not enough for someone, so this day asks for information, therefore, that, if he does not pass this session today, he is imposed, so that's just what we were experiencing until '92. years of these same people and we know well how this imposition ended. I am just afraid, if we are in this way, instead of agreeing and bringing the best solutions, at the level of BiH, we are positioning someone to impose something on us, then, I'm afraid that we are doing Sisif's work and that this way of working in BiH will certainly not do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6452	For the replica of Mrs. Perkanović, then Mr. Špirić, then I ask you to move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6453	It's a replica to Mr. Tokić. First, I ask him a question. In what democracy is imposing democratically? The imposition of anything is not in line with democratic laws, and I am appalled by his only participation in the democratic party. Calling here to impose, to declare, no agreement is characteristic of the previous system from which the SDP has grown. Very interesting, everything you want, Mr. Tokić, and your party, that's normally all anyone else needs or wants, it's not normal. I don't know what's normal here or what's not normal anymore. I'd just ask that something like that not be used anymore. Everything is normal, everything people ask for, they will, they have the right to ask them to, and to make it happen, if there are any possibilities. We don't have to be angry or attack anything that they want, they probably will because it suits them and because it's what they need.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6454	Gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed MPs and respected members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, distinguished guests, do not deserve Tokićev story that I am dealing with the replica and Mr. Tokić, but deserve the citizens of BiH to be warned in time about what is expected in BiH in economic terms. It's easier for me to speak than Tokić for reasons I don't offer myself in future elections as some lucky guy who has a universal formula to solve all problems. So, I am absolutely relieved in front of the BiH public and it might be better if in the name of the Social Democrats some new ones come, that Tokić does not drive them crazy, does not confuse and promises unreal. The citizens of BiH, who are on the verge of existence, misery and hunger, seem to need new passports or unique passports to be buried more and more with these passports, and to travel less and less to the countries of Europe and the world, and I do not think that this is a burning problem for BiH, because this problem is regulated legally. The passport law has been passed in this Representative Council and I don't see that this field activity is not taking place. Thousands of things are too short for BiH citizens. For the party I run, I can say that I am proud to run it and that it will not participate in these elections, because it cannot see the light of the day between lies, deceptions, etc., those offered by Mr. Tokić as a happy citizen of BiH. So I don't have any personal interests. I don't care about Mr. Tokić's party, I wish her luck as much as any other party in the election. Some of it is being gripped by the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and Krajina, it will produce much better results when the light of day is seen in BiH by those politicians who are ready without complexes to discuss BiH's future. He listed Mr. Tokić as part of my statement concerning the parliamentary debate, where I said there is no state in the world in which a citizen will not recognise her territorial order, seek as a reward a special passport, and if there is such a state, it would be good for people to live in such a country that is favourable to them. It's part of my debate, which I, here, and today I repeat and I have no reason to give up my thinking, because Tokić thinks differently and there is reason to agree with me. I have remained in my mind today about this problem and this situation, and the BiH Council of Ministers should give its vision, as a collective body, about passports and I think there are thousands of 89 more important things for BiH citizens, but we are masters to block life in the country because of a problem that is not so urgent. If the citizens take it, here's their chance, here's the party, here's 11. In November, let him plead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6455	Mr. Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6456	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I am very sorry that Mr. Pere Skopljak is not presently presently, because this discussion of mine has been addressed to him. I didn't want it to be a replica, I wanted it to be a discussion. I understood through these three extensions of this session and three extensions at this point that we came to an act of vote. However, we are not still having any constructive debate, not even on amendments, but on whether or not we will vote, which is why I ask that we work more efficiently and vote. The amendments have been made. We can vote on them, since there is no serious debate, and we can also vote on the proposal sent by the BiH Council of Ministers. On the other hand, I support Parliamentarian Kadić's proposal that we also plead today on the BiH Council's trust, because two or three times have disobeyed our request, interrupted our session three times, and three times we cannot complete this work. That's why I didn't want to go out as a replica, but to say that we can end this part through discussion, not with replicas. I would like, when the replica here, to ask my colleague Deretić, on the basis of what mathematics he came to say that 98% of RS citizens want a passport the way it is, because as far as I know, there are other citizens besides the representatives of those he wants to represent here through 98%, so I would like him to explain only this mathematics to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6457	Mr. Divković – Mr. Deretić, one minute, if that is the answer, we will call you when it is, therefore, Mr. Divković, it is... Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6458	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as this law passes, passed the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Labour, the Transport Act, and so for five years, and I proposed last time that the High Representative imposes this law and that will be so. This is where Mr. Čaršimamović said about 98%, I would say it again, where those who are not at their homes are. Are they forgotten, kicked out of that percentage? Furthermore, as to the name of Republika Srpska, therefore, the name itself, someone here wondered if it should be deleted, if that is the goal, that is the goal, because in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, that part of BiH is not only Serbian and cannot remain that name. So the goal is, if you're wondering, is the goal, my goal is, I don't know whose second one is. This is how this parliament can achieve nothing. That's why my party proposed yesterday? the programme of the international community to which we are all bound. No party will be able to enter power without this programme, and whoever obstructs it will go, so 90 is an important programme and project. Why do I say that? It's an important programme and a project, not a winner of the election, or we'll be sitting here for another five years and waiting like this. For this reason, I would appeal to the international community to interrupt this and impose laws that are good for BiH citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6459	Mr. Banjac, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6460	Ladies and gentlemen, read the Rules of Procedure and there are business obligations and there are no problems for an incorrect allegation. First, I ask, here and now, to interrupt the session until the OHR declares whether what Mr Silajdžić said is true, the law will be imposed, which means that man has secure information. I ask the OHR to plead, quite precisely, what Mr. Silajdžić said, because then we have nothing to look for, if a man has information, I do not dispute. So, I'm looking for, on behalf of the SDS MPs' club, a half-hour break. I demand the OHR's statement on this presentation by Mr Silajdžić. I am looking for a stenogram of this presentation right now and now, to all MPs, I am personally asking for a stenogram, because to continue the session I am asking for a stenogram, and I am telling the citizens of RS and I am calling on the TV to pass from word to word what Mr Silajdžić said and I am asking the Federation of BiH to do the same. I ask that this be heard, and ask for the OHR's statement, as an MP, whether such a man who has scattered as much hatred as he has now said can be an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6461	Please, just a moment. On behalf of the MPs' club, a half-hour break may be applied. Anything else can be suggested, so if it's accepted, it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6462	On behalf of the MPs' club, I'll look for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6463	In the name of the MPs' club, a break can be sought and, according to the Rules of Procedure, that break will follow. Anything else can be suggested to the House of Representatives, so if the House of Representatives adopts it, then it becomes a conclusion. So, based on the demands of one club of MPs, a half-hour break, then a follow-up to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6464	I'm looking for what I've been looking for. Do I have a right to that? 91 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6465	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. We're continuing this session. There's no Mr. Banjac here who asked for a break. I don't have any information why. The OHR's answer to the asked question, please, I'd like Mr. Banjac to appear in the hall if he's around. Since we don't have Mr. Banjac yet, I'm going to try to answer the question that he allegedly asked, which I unfortunately didn't hear, because I had one visit, I had to leave the session for a while. The OHR informed that it only answers the questions asked in writing. Therefore, to oral questions he does not give answers, therefore, I believe that the answer to this pause you have been given is also given. I hope you're satisfied with that. Secondly, I ask you to bring this session to an end, because I believe that's why we have the conditions. Mr. Dokić, do you have one?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6466	Well, I guess I have a right to explain the session's interruption.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6467	Yes, I called twice for you to come. Here, I hear Mr. Banjac has a written reply that he couldn't have done it before, to apologize, please, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6468	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I asked for a break, I am obliged to say what happened in the meantime and why the break was used, so is business. In accordance with Article 129. The Rules of Procedure, the MP has the right, in specific situations, and I, after Mr Silajdžić's speech, consider him specific because he was called for the collapse of the constitutional order of BiH, have the right to ask questions to other entities, in this case it is OHR. I didn't get an OHR answer by now, nor did I get any explanation, and Article 129 didn't provide for the time. I accept the fact that it is possible that they give their answer later or now. Since I have no answer to any of these questions, and I have the right to do so, in accordance with Article 129, please tell me whether the answer will be delivered or not delivered, or when it will be delivered, since there is no deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6469	Please, I've given an answer as decoded as I've received from the OHR's representative. That oral questions are not given information by OHR, but only on questions which are asked in writing. Therefore, that is the answer I can give you and I believe that this part of the discussion has been put forward ad act.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6470	Please, business intervention, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6471	This is how I got it. That's the information I'm passing on to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6472	Gentlemen, I ask you all, and especially those responsible here to read Article 129. He's very clear. It is not true that a written question must be asked under Article 129. Can you loan me to read article 129? I'm just saying, that's not true. I've reacted to an incorrect claim, MP. It's quite clear here in Article 129. Rules of Procedure, Members may ask questions relating to specific facts or situations and other entities, which provide answers in writing. They need to deliver the answer in writing, not me, and that's quite clear, my dear gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6473	Please, I'm talking to you about the answer I got and the one I'm passing on to you. Here you go. Mr. Rakić answered, and then Dokić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6474	Mr. Chairman, you had to go out at the time of the session, and I had an objection to leading this point and now it's a business intervention. You said at the beginning of this agenda that she was going through the old rules and, then, separate these two things. Let's finish point two on the old rules of procedure and, then, if you intend to open a debate on Banjac, go to the new Rules of Procedure. Let's get this over with, let's be expedient. We keep opening up new issues and mixing rules of procedure. You're confusing us here.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6475	You judge how confusing I am, how many others I'm responsible for what I'm doing. Mr. Rakić, please, Mr. Dokić, Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6476	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I did not attend the first session of the assembly to discuss this law, but I attended the last extension, here I am, attending today. From all that is happening, at least last time and today, it is clear that this assembly has entered into a total crisis and that this irrational debate leads to what we have taken as an obligation, as MPs in this Parliament, to carry out and work and create coherent relations in BiH on the basis of constitutional solutions and on the basis of laws and certain procedures that have been established here. We are starting to make a parade out of this congregation, and that is how certain leaders invite observers, their sympathisers, and they're clapping in this room, etc. And we're not responding. I have simply abstained from the debate, because, based on large speeches and tirading of certain political leaders who do not lead to the solution to this problem, it is difficult to participate in such a debate. I'll make myself clear. We have a draft of the Brussels Declaration. The draft defined questions by some priority. The first question is economics. The second question is solving the refugee problem. At the third institution, on the fourth public security, 93 media, education. We have chosen the Council of Ministers, no exposés, no work programmes and the Council of Ministers, which remembers, it begins to push or push some political options, to bring this assembly into what we are introducing it into. I told some political leaders. I can't help but say something about Mr Silajdžić. His political definitions and his political views are clear to us all. Mr Silajdžić wants to create BiH on his own.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6477	Don't get into this same mistake, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6478	He wants to create for his own purpose, and on the basis of that, he brings us certain things and uses very big words to cause an even greater destabilisation in BiH and to cause no patience in BiH. I, as a man, as a representative of the Democratic People's Union party, do not want to participate in such a circus, because I want this people to expect certain economic and other prosperity, to expect them to live better and to create certain conditions, as we have called it, on a self-sustaining economy, on self-sustaining peace, rather than being under the permanent patronage of the international community, and we call on the international community to bring us laws and to bring us all the programs and that, in practice, this assembly is losing its meaning. Therefore, I made it clear that I, and my party, will not participate in such a circus. As for the Law on Passports, there are clear goals, as Mr Silajdžić said. We want to impose another charge on the people, take 35-40 million marks, because it's on a high standard, and it has to replace its passports within a certain time. There's a clear bill. We don't want to go to that solution to say that the people can choose which passports they want, so let them choose, and we'll see how many passports there will be. Therefore, I, as an MP in this assembly, will not vote in favour of this law either, and I will not vote in favour of amendments either, because I consider that all this has led to what it has led to and will lead to this assembly not to work further normally, since there is a pre-election campaign, and it is normal, but it is clear from the appearance of certain leaders what it wants to turn from this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6479	Thank you very much. gospoda Dokić, Deretić, then Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6480	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope today's debate on this law revealed a lot of what we knew, but it wasn't explicit. This isn't about a passport. This is about something deeper, what Mr. Silajdžić clearly said and, behold, I declare from here, and he has made the harshest insolence, perhaps the best word, the most harsh insolence on the Dayton Peace Agreement, whose agreement he himself is a signator. The consequences therefore be as they are, I will not call upon anyone, but I know what the Democratic Progress Party of the RS will do, given this, given the relationship to the party whose leader he is. So, for me, the story of the travel document is over at this point. You can hang up, you can keep going. I am also saying, 94 what Mr. Rakić said, and I will not vote for this law, nor will I vote for amendments, but please don't fool people about why they can't travel around the world, because it says the name of the entity on the passport, that we have a visa regime, etc. I'll only give you one example. Does Švajcarska have visa-free regimes all over the world because on the passport, every passport writes the name of a canton. So 26 variants of passport, if it's 26 cantons, as far as I know it's 26. There's a canton on every passport. Gentlemen, there's a real obstruction here, and he himself called himself, who, right after the law passed by this council and adopted the second council of the BiH Assembly, immediately went into a campaign to change the law and he obstructed the international community and deceived the international community by forcing it to enter at one of the conferences the obligation to change the law that has already been passed, and we were left without a series of laws. It is now clear here why we are five years without so many laws needed to function BiH. Now it's clear. Because we didn't even want to talk about the laws we should be making here, we wanted those others, who aim at what Mr Silajdžić just said, who directly and indirectly delete the name of the entity. So it's really clear now and it's really easier for me to perform in BiH in the future, because everything's been exposed to the public. Thank you very much. There have been previous debates in, indeed, inappropriate terms, why we are doing a job here, when the citizens of BiH, RS, will beg their pardons, as they have already accepted, accept this when they are imposed. Gentlemen, the citizens of the RS will accept everything the Assembly brings, and, unfortunately, they will accept what is imposed by someone who, if they have the right to impose, but will not accept, but will not compromise peace, but they will be called upon to impose and threaten us to accept it, because someone will impose it on us, it is really inappropriate and it is embarrassing to say it behind this pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6481	No luck with the intrusion. We're here to solve problems and I'm asking you to work in that context. Mr. Deretić, Mr. Tokić, and Mrs. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6482	I had already reported for the replica before this break, but since the previous debater had already said a lot of what I had to say, I am giving up, however, I, the chairman, ask and insist on what I suggested in my first discussion, therefore, that this Representative Council vote on the conclusion of the following content. Who is in favour of continuing the debate under the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, without a statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH, especially after these discussions that were discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6483	Please, I believe that item 3 of the agenda has already been adopted on the previous agenda, there before the previous session, and I believe, Mr. Deretić, that we have, in fact, nominated this point, whether we have conditions or no conditions, we will, clearly, when we declare ourselves on this law. I ask you to give up this proposal because I believe that we are going back to the agenda, that is, the new vote of point 3. Is he going to the vote or not? 95 Secondly, I ask you to be gentlemen until the end, Democrats, I would certainly like to give the word and gentlemen to the Council of Ministers of BiH, to tell us whether they have something new or not to say at this debate. I will certainly give a word to the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, I guarantee it. But to be, Mr. Deretić, thank you, Mr. Tokić, Mrs. Jovanović, so Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6484	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, in the pauses was apparently indicated the gratitude of the MPs from RS for the discussion of Mr Silajdžić, because this synchronised creates an atmosphere of threat and division, allegedly, of this parliament to those who want to abolish RS, and others want to defend there RS, some of BiH's friends, and some are enemies of BiH, and that the whole debate here, with one very explicit law, a statement on Mr Banjac's amendments, and the Law on travel documents, turns into a well-known, synchronised story of danger, fear, fear, fear, grandmother of horns, etc. which has been fitting in for 10 years with protagonists in which he has always been present, partly, and Silajdžić, but also other entities. I would like to ask this parliament here to suspend the debate and to approach the statement on Mr Banjac's amendments, and then on a statement on the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. Personally, I think that this discussion goes hand in hand to those who are against the plea, you know, I have a thesis, which will prove whether it is correct or incorrect, but I think it's a strategy to lead as many discussions as possible, to have as many sessions as possible, and not to declare the law, that it was the essence of one meeting of a number of representatives and because of these doubts, that everyone here would be clear, I ask that we return to the agenda and the new rules of procedure, the introduction of a new item of the agenda implies a statement of MPs, whether it is to discuss any discussion, about any tendencies, conclusions, etc. I ask the College to, no matter what you start the agenda, conclude it in the old rules of procedure, later return to the new rules of procedure, and return to this agenda in the old and new rules of procedure. If you have the need to discuss the plea, defence, attacks against the RS, the Federation of BiH, is deleted, otherwise, by the idea of this law proposed by the Tuševljak, the Federation of BiH and RS from the name of the entity is deleted, and now, if anyone else wants to delete even further, I do not know it and I distance myself, but from the title from the front of the passport, one and the other entity is deleted. I'm asking you to come back, and I'd like to say one more message. Not to defend the RS, nor BiH, nor the Federation of BiH on this law, but to the economic situation, the rule of law, and from that I distance myself from all other discussions that have been trying to transfer the alleged state interests to short-listed, pre-election confrontations, threats, fear, which I think the peoples and citizens have already overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6485	The replica has Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6486	It is very hypocritical here for this speaker to mention that it does not defend itself by this law, etc., when just before the debate was one of the first to insist on the adoption of amendments to the law on travel documents, i.e. the erasure of the entity's name, that is one thing and another, the chairman. 96 According to the Rules of Procedure, I ask you nicely, I have made a concrete proposal and immediately after my proposal, you should have approached and put that proposal to the vote. After that came the sea of discussion. I once again pray, I have been decidan to the proposal of the conclusion, and I pray that the MPs declare it. I'm still staying with that proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6487	What have you got? Replica, Mr. Divković, come in. Mrs. Jovanović has a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6488	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, when Mr. Deretić presented the term hypocrisy, I want to say that it is hypocritical, and it is indeed a hypocritical law that was proposed with reasons as it was said and rejected, and today such a law is required to be brought here to vote for it. The same people refused the same law, and now they're looking for it, I think it's hypocritical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6489	Mrs. Jovanović has a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6490	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members, distinguished guests, I shall speak briefly, because these are not topics from my domain of work and knowledge, but, behold, as it is said here and what should and should not and my smallness will participate in this, which is both normal and far from normal. I'm not an economist, but, well, I've been reading these conference reports that these people organized, who wanted us to be safe, in all these places, and they all had a recommendation for someone better tomorrow. The way we interpreted them, you can tell by now. The economy that's being talked about is likely to come to these discussions and topics, it's likely that at least six sessions will be held to discuss the economy, if this important passport, here, three sessions have been devoted, what does the people have to do with it, for which everyone who comes out here so warmly intercedes, sees that. Last time I came back, I listened to the media from these areas of the Federation of BiH, so they talked about workers in Zenica, whom Mr Silajdžić promised from this booth 700 marks of salary, and I listened to this report and said they received, 12,000 waiting workers, 25 kg of flour, 2 liters of oil, 3 kg of detergent and a half kilo of cookies and then there goes the debate, their comments. For 2,000 workers, he doesn't have that package, and now I'm listening to Mr Silajdžić, who I really wouldn't do the commercial, he doesn't need it. Ten years of this political work, his people feel best. I really want to see BiH as I, combined, arranged and charming and popular in society, and not as you see it, without me as a Srpkinja, and from that speech of yours, I felt so much hatred, whether you admit it or not, but I am telling you now, as a man and as a doctor. It's scientifically proven, hating her seven times harder than loving her. All that stuff you said, I wouldn't say it again. This paper, I'll make sure I never read it and now another proposal for this law. 97 Since the passport is so important to the citizens of BiH, my proposal is to have it with as many sheets as possible, maximumly thick and high-quality paper, that people have what to eat, if they will live on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6491	The replica has Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6492	Dear gentlemen, I don't know if it's a replica, but I felt the need to answer my colleague Divković this way. In fact, he said that we, MPs who generally rejected his proposal for a travel document in BiH, are hypocritical because now, in Mr Banjac's amendments, something similar is proposed, on our part. That's what I'm trying to say. Mr. Divković, your law has come into one valid atmosphere as a proposal to make a deal. Your proposal didn't suit us. We didn't make a deal and everything was right. However, we are now in a whole new situation. Namely, some of the forces in BiH, here today in the act of Mr. Haris Silajdžić, have threatened us and made clear what will happen to us, and human and normal, and not hypocritical, that a man of two evils chooses what is less. That's why we weren't up to your bill then, and now we're out with these amendments. So, we're not hypocritical, but we're defending ourselves on every possible norm, and I'm saying that term here that a lot of people serve and even inappropriately. It's perfectly normal and human for a man to defend himself and choose from two evils what is less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6493	Mr. Silajdžić, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6494	Dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, to remember, someone here said the BiH Council of Ministers came without a programme. That's not true. This parliament has a program, except it doesn't respect it. As far as you know, we have a program here, it just needs to be respected, and that's what all the laws we're talking about are about, and I've talked about it a lot. Secondly, my colleague Jovanović, read, I never promised 700 marks, no, but I promised that there would be an investment in Zeljezar Zenica of 100 million marks, 100 million marks, here is the director of Željezara and can tell if it came or didn't come. So, if it's my job to burn a furnace in Zenica, then that's another thing, but that investment came, it was my job and I'd ask my colleague to do something similar, if she's talking about the welfare of BiH citizens, that would be best. Just make sure you make that happen, and everything's gonna be okay. Secondly, you said you wouldn't read my statement, I'll read it because it's my replica. No, no, wait a minute, this is my replica, I'm sorry, and don't interrupt me, because I'm not interrupting the others. Listen to me the way I listen to you. 98 So this is what I said, I'll cut it short. As for the names of the RS, so the name itself, someone here wondered if it should be deleted, if that's the goal, is the goal, that's the goal. Because in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, it seems not to be forgotten, and this is also suggested by the Council of Ministers of BiH, precisely because of this decision that exists, whether we forget it. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court that we must implement, this is how it is implemented. That part of BiH is not only Serbian. In an earlier statement, which exists, I also said that the Federation of BiH is not only Bosniak and Croatian. My goal is a civil state in which others have full rights. So, I read that, it's a violation of the Constitution as someone said. It's just the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision, which is my goal. Since there is no mood to read further, therefore, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and we have a program, gentlemen, because someone said we don't. We voted him, and he needs to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6495	The replica has Mr Spahić. I'm asking you to bring this debate to an end, because she's not leading anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6496	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, as you know, according to the September Programme of our work, what Mr. Rakić mentioned very well was a debate, an extraordinary session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's BiH Parliament on economic and social policy in BiH, which should have been the central point of the September session. The second central point was that the task force, made by the College, would finally come up with the electoral law and be adopted at the end of September in the WE, since this is the remaining law, the remaining obligation, according to the Work Programme of this House, and the third obligation to this work programme in this month was to be, as you know, to declare a whole series of laws that we simply renegotiate... The work programme was adopted by us, as a House of Representatives, and on the basis of the intervention that I did together at the time, it seems to me, with Mr Rakić and many other MPs, I have asked that the Council of Ministers of BiH declare whether the programme can be mastered, since it has been very comprehensive. Whether we can make spot-based laws and proposals, decisions that are necessary to work as an executive body of Parliament, we are told that we will get these proposals and laws and, among other things, the law on the protection of intellectual property. Since clearly intellectual property is not protected here in BiH, as is evident from this debate, I would like to say one thing about business matter, and it concerns the presence of the promoter here. When the debate, as we exhausted it, is said in Article 96, both in this and in the old Rules of Procedure, in some other article in the old Rules of Procedure, I also have this Rules of Procedure, we can compare, the legislator, the rapporteur and the Council of Ministers of BiH, therefore, everyone, in this case, was the legislator of the law, if you remember, the Council of Ministers of BiH, through the Ministry of Civil Affairs, and we have observed that in the general debate we have statements from the Council of Ministers of BiH, the competent then deputy, the absent was changed by the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Rečica spoke on behalf of the Ministry. 99 Mr Gligorić confirmed on the last, on the second, that he is fully behind all the allegations given by Mr. Rečica, has a stenogram and that he is behind this bill and that he accepts Mrs. Havel's amendments. On that basis, like anyone who tries to rationalise one job, I asked then, for the first time, for the second time on the second extension and for the third time when we began to continue this session, what many, above all, Mr Ivo Divković, who accepted all the facts possible and that his bill of law and Mr Tokić had failed, but accepted the old bill, to approach the vote and asked at one of those sessions to vote on this law. I would now simply say, the second part of this article in 96, paragraph 3 says that the legislator, the rapporteur, the Council of Ministers of BiH will get a word whenever it asks. I ask you, in accordance with the president's instructions, this is about responsibility, I call on Mr. Skopljak, given that I have given up the real intervention and that I am now not giving a lecture on economic and social policy, because I have submitted two documents, interpretation and resolution, I hope that this will come to the agenda of today's session, according to the Rules of Procedure I have the right to do so. I ask the President-in-Office, as the Rules of Procedure say that, in accordance with the instructions of the chairman, he receives the word of the legislator, given that one situation was created that is in line with the old rules of procedure, the new rules of procedure, the amendments made by Mr Banjac and other certain situations created in connection with the quorum and the Council of Ministers of BiH, with various proposals to the resignation, I ask him to resolve the situation as correctly as possible, so that finally after three hours of work, Mr Gligorić is appointed, as minister of the competent ministry, according to this. If this happens at a session, there may be unblocking, practically, work on this agenda point. I ask you, since you are called, not the College, but the Chairman, I am now reading it, because I thought it was well-intentioned, let Mr. Gligorić determine, that we finally move away, let us fall off this nebulose, because this is a created situation that we will not get out of, from this vicious circle. As an MP, I demand that he join me. I made the first proposal. My proposal should not be voted on, but declared, because I have not made any new proposal to conclude anything, no conclusion, but to approach, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, voting procedures. I've said it three times. Why, whenever it comes to that point, when it's all exhausted, we start to open up problems, until Mrs Rađević came forward, I didn't realize that this is the collective amendment of a group of MPs, but she just said, Mrs Rađević, that this is the expression of the will of more Members, she didn't specify the number, not as many, not as any club MPs, etc. By the time Mrs. Rađević spoke, I thought it was Mr. Banjac's amendment. But I don't mind that either. They can be amendments to both groups and one and more. I just think it's incorrect to keep three hours of a man in charge of this law that he can't get a word in. I ask that we do so much, that we respect the executive authority, that you address us, don't stop them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6497	I give my word to Mr. Gligorić. Here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6498	Business intervention. Please, Mr. Gligorić, did you ask for a word, Mr. Gligorić? You didn't ask, then, according to this Rules of Procedure, he says nice when he asks for a word. If he asked for a word, please let it be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6499	Please, Mr. Gligorić, you have just declared yourself willing. Here, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6500	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6501	I'm asking you, I'm calling on both Rules of Procedure now, if we can't properly conduct the session that we're going to interrupt it. Now please stick to the Rules of Procedure, if you ask me to.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6502	May I, Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6503	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6504	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I want to apologize to you for having Mr. Chairman, Spasoje Tuševljak, not with us today, but, of course, he is officially absent and I think he should represent BiH and Sydney and given the complaints that were made here, in my court, I don't think they stand. You expect a lot now, probably given that, by my judgment, a certain temperature has been reached today. I am personally pleased that you have decided to have an active relationship regarding this, for concrete amendments and additions to the Law on Travel Documents. I said last time that the Council of Ministers of BiH forwarded amendments and amendments to the law, meanwhile we also needed to make clear on amendments by MPs, Mrs Ana Havel, who were of technical nature and we have already made that clear. At the same time, there was an amendment to Mr Mirko Banjac's MPs, which, of course, is the legitimate right of the MPs to make amendments. These amendments, any number of them, were in the alternative, you also know, are essential in nature and, of course, that should, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers, be made known to the Council of Ministers. At the previous meeting of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, the BiH Council of Ministers went and found that it had no quorum on which you were written, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and said that at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers, the issue would be resolved, a statement by Mr. Banjac's amendments and will be notified in writing to you and the MPs. The debate was held on September 7th, but the agenda item was not completed and it was said to continue on September 12th and at the session, none of the ministers to the chairman, Tuševljak, said they would be absent. On September 12th, Mr. Chairman found there was no quorum and three ministers were missing, Mrs. Turković, Mr. Prlić and Mr. Raguž. So there was no statement of the BiH Council of Ministers on this issue, following these amendments. To convince the atmosphere in a certain environment in the Council on this matter, I, in principle and responsibly, as a man, that I do not fall into a trap, so I ask you, MPs, to really understand and respect my position in the Ministry and the Council, that, as a professional man, I really want the Council of Ministers of BiH to declare itself on the amendments, because it is a collective body and you know that the Council of Ministers declares itself by consensus and that we and the State of Consensus, and the Council of Ministers in particular. If you respect that fact, you will make things easier for us, practically. Of course we are responsible, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I, individually, as a minister, as an executive body, to you MPs of the House of Representatives. You on this, on the specific, individual and collective responsibility of the Council of Ministers, we are... and on this matter, of course, you can make the right decision and the final decision on the fate of this. I ask you not to understand this, because in the online events that we have in the meantime and as a Council, we have done a lot of things, we have proposed a lot, and I do not want to defend either Mr. Chairman, nor the role of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but, however, I want to say that certain results have been done, that within the Council of Ministers of BiH there is a good working environment, which should not be ruined, and I ask you, within your jurisdiction, to take appropriate measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6505	Mr. Kadić, you have a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6506	So, for one very clearly spoken attitude, which Mr Gligorić expressed, as Minister at the Council of Ministers of BiH and which aimed not only to explain, but also to justify the non-enlightenment of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I want to say very precisely. The BiH Council of Ministers held a session during last break of this house, and I made it very clear, and then, it was called so that there was no quorum on it. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers held a regular session, where the quorum was held. The BiH Council of Ministers reportedly discussed it, but did not reportedly take any stance. We do not have the view that there was a vote on the BiH Council of Ministers, and that there was no consensus, no, it was not an attitude and it was postponed for the next session, which is scheduled when there is no quorum, which is reportedly the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers does not know, as ministers do not inform him. To be open, for the third time, the Council of Ministers has no quorum, and it knows well that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and Mr Gligorić that this is a point that this parliament cannot go over and that is, therefore, a very clear situation. The Council of Ministers of BiH, by its dissatisfaction, whether intentional or not, would say to the Chair, by someone else's orders, directly prevents this House of Representatives from accomplishing its constitutional function and from pleading on this law and to declare themselves on other laws set out in the Programme of Labour of the House of Representatives. I, as a responsible MP, elected by the citizens, publicly pronounce it and ask for it, remain in the conclusion, although the chairman has convinced me to give up on it, I remain in the conclusion on the 102-trust vote by the BiH Council of Ministers, because the work of the basic BiH institution is obstructed, it is parliament. What is it more than the normal work of the BiH Parliament in law-making. Traveling to Brussels, gatherings in Sydney, are neither Sydney nor the Olympics, beyond the work of this House of Representatives, gentlemen. That is the most pressing task, and I want to say it very clearly, and I would like to make a statement about it, and I would be very pleased to see those who will vote against my proposal to deny trust, or those who will support this work by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6507	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Perkanović, please. I ask you to bring this debate to an end and plead Mr Banjac's amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6508	You can't do that, sir, running a session. You can't, so I'm a member of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6509	Well, come on, then, you take her. Take her away.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6510	Since we just heard Mr Gligorić and Mr Rasim Kadić earlier, who I don't know on what grounds these statements are based on personal assumptions, which I don't consider very serious, but I would like to request, last time we interrupted the session, requesting a statement from the Council of Ministers. We didn't get it, we got the explanation, and I suggest we act on Mr. Deretić's proposal and not discuss it, but make it clear that we're even going to discuss this point. If I didn't repeat his proposal, I'd like to make a statement on Mr. Deretić's proposal and not owe us more of this point we've already observed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6511	Business intervention has Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6512	I really didn't think there was any need for any non-truth to react, because that's why we're complicating a difficult situation anyway. The Kolegijum conclusion this morning was not that we were voting on my amendments, but that we should continue on the agenda. What's going to happen to that dot is going to be what it's going to be. He was an OHR representative when I said that. There's also a record from that session. I don't know why you put something in my mouth I didn't say. Secondly, Mr. Tokić, please, gentlemen, secondly, here we are asking for the opinion of the minister, who is precise and no one will hear what he has said, and he said, let me repeat, if I have to, we will ask for a stenogram once more, because it seems that 103 here is very important that a lot of the written trail remains, because you cannot hold on to the word of anyone here. The gentleman said that, in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers' Law, it is necessary to make the Council of Ministers known about the amendments. Did you say that, Minister? Yeah. He said yes. Please, gentlemen, and this is where the situation happens. Mr. Kadić, perfectly legitimately, says we cannot go beyond my and everyone else's right of business in accordance with the legislative procedure. Choose either that Rules of Procedure or whoever you want, the legislative procedure must be completed, it must end. I don't know why we keep it quiet, is that the goal and why it's done? Mr Kadić here asks the question of trust to the BiH Council of Ministers. I would just tell Mr. Kadić that it is necessary, in accordance with Article 116, that he does it, not in the way he said it here today. And I ask the MP to do so in accordance with Article 116. Rules of Procedure. If he does in accordance with Article 116, he breaks his knees again here. Take the Rules of Procedure, there's a member who regulates it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6513	Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6514	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are all the conditions and the necessary assumptions that the House of Representatives is to be held after the debate under the agenda item on the subject on the agenda. Both the Rules of Procedure and each other's procedures do not insist anywhere and set as an imperative that the BiH Council of Ministers must declare certain amendments. It is a good thing that the Council of Ministers, especially when the proposer declares itself, is particularly good when the Parliamentary Assembly leaves to the Council of Ministers for 15 days to come forward, but it is very bad when the BiH Council of Ministers in ten days is unable to declare the amendments that have stood in half the text, half the typed page. So, I would rather say that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers is trying to disrupt this parliament, to achieve its role. Whether it will succeed depends on the MPs in this House of Representatives. Will we accept that we are taking part in a game that makes it impossible for the procedure to be brought to an end, or will we also preserve the dignity of Parliament and each MP individually, and will we do our part, and our obligations, as is expected of us, and fulfill them. Nowhere is therefore envisaged and nowhere is the imperative in the procedure that the BiH Council of Ministers must in this case be heard. The Council of Ministers had plenty of time. The Council of Ministers had three chances. Two extensions of this session and a continuation of this session. Therefore, the debate is over. The law is extremely important. The public is expecting us to play our part here to bring this point to a procedural end, which means we're going to get to the point. Every MP has, of course, the right to suggest a conclusion that will be adopted. I do not understand Mr. Deretić's suggestion, the conclusion proposed by Mr. Deretić, so I would ask him to repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6515	Thank you very much. Mr. Banjac has an netačan quote. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6516	I would once again like to say publicly that, Mr Genjac, you are misleading the public and MPs, and you are speaking to both the old and the new Rules of Procedure, because it is said in the old Rules of Procedure next and I ask that the provisions of each other be read, that the legislator, and not the Council of Ministers, but the Proposer, and this law has been proposed by the Council, should be made clear on the amendments. The minister's advice could have said he didn't want to make a statement about the amendments or that it was negative or that he accepted it. He has informed us in writing that he will debate the amendments, and he has the right to do so as a proposal. For me here is the Council of Ministers of BiH's proposal, and they say they will plead. You are here calling contrary to the Rules of Procedure, to prevent the Council of Ministers from pleading. They say they will. It is also true, I support what Mr Genjac said, that it is inadmissible to spend such a long time on poor few amendments that the Council of Ministers cannot be declared, it is not acceptable, it requires responsibility and I agree with that. But, gentlemen, responsibility cannot affect anyone's right. These are legally two different situations. It's like old times. According to the new Rules of Procedure, I see Tokić learning well, he listens carefully, he will remember, I tell you he will remember. Please, according to the new Rules of Procedure, the situation is next, that within 48 hours before we deliver the amendments to the competent commission, and you now know that, neither is it respected, nor is it new, nor have we as a Kolegijum appointed that competent commission, nor has that competent commission worked on that matter, and, gentlemen, you want to breach the objective. Well, I don't mind. You can vote me over. What I can't do here, and if I want to, I can't. Let me tell you, according to that, you do what you want. I would like to warn of the violation of both Rules of Procedure and draw attention to the obligation of this House to make all MPs' proposals known before voting on the law. What will be the results, and I don't know that. After all, let them be what they want to be. She'll be the way we want her to be. But why do you keep jumping? You're making us do something that's completely transparent. You want to do something by force. Well, come on, respect the procedure and do whatever you want. One more thing, Mr. Kadić said completely. Kadić, I ask nicely, as an MP, I understand that you indirectly said that the amendments should be declared by the Council of Ministers of BiH and that is why you sought their responsibility for not doing so.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6517	The replica has Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6518	Since Mr. Banjac said what I didn't say. Let me rephrase my position. The BiH Council of Ministers held three sessions to declare the amendments, since the Council of Ministers has not declared itself to the amendments, I ask that this House of Representatives, the failure to declare the Council of Ministers on new amendments, be treated as the Council of Ministers' stay on the original bill of law, which was delivered only a month ago. That's my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6519	The replica has Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6520	So, I didn't see the argument that I was cheating on the public. It absolutely says that the BiH Council of Ministers should declare the amendments. I categorically repeat, it was really necessary to make a statement about the amendments, and what did not do what had to be done, should further give parliament the role to at least parliament to fulfil its obligation. I said there is no imperative that the Council of Ministers of BiH must declare the amendments, and that it should be made known and that it should be absolutely standing and that I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6521	Mr. Deretić answered, so Neimarlija, then Raščić, then Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6522	The colleagues, in view of the interpretation of our regulation, i.e. the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, are therefore indisputable from the fact that the Council of Ministers, as a proposing of this draft, must declare its amendments. It must be declared in writing, decadent, or oral form. In this context, we already have two extensions, i.e. three extensions, we have not yet received their statement. I insist that the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH be respected, and then delivered to us in writing that they do not wish to be made known according to these amendments, after which we could possibly come into a position that, without, therefore, a decadent statement by the Council of Ministers, we are discussing this proposal, that is one thing. On the other hand, I consider it mandatory that, since the esteemed Mr. Genjac obviously did not understand my proposal, to repeat it once again and deliver it to the chairman in writing. So, just all of these discussions, which were just now, go into the context of what I was proposing at the outset, which is to make clear here who is in order to continue the debate under the Bill proposal, the amendments and additions to the Law on Travel documents of BiH, without a statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6523	My amendments, I guess.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6524	The amendments, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6525	The replica has Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6526	Mr. Deretić, you're a lawyer and I think we'll understand each other very soon. You say, please vote on the conclusion of the following content, who is in favour of continuing the debate, etc. So, you are proposing that the College ask Parliament a question of inquiry, who is in favour of continuing the debate, without the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers. Such a question can only be asked by the College to the House of Representatives if the House of Representatives adopts that question. Let's be even clearer. First question, you must suggest the conclusion. You didn't suggest a conclusion. You've formulated a question that needs to be asked by parliament. To ask that question, a conclusion must be adopted. What a...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6527	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6528	Please listen carefully. Mr. Deretić suggests voting on the conclusion of the next content. Who is in favour of continuing the debate under the amendment of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, without a statement by the Council of Ministers of BiH on the amendments of Mirko Banjac. Where's the conclusion here? Here's the question. What's the conclusion? So you're suggesting the question is, where is the conclusion here? What conclusion do you suggest? Please, every MP has the right to draw a conclusion and make a statement about him. Please form your conclusion so that we accept it or do not accept it. Form a conclusion that needs to be adopted or not adopted, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6529	Thank you very much. Mr. Neimarlija, then Mr. Raščić, then Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6530	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I am not yet clear whether I will give up my participation in this bile debate and therefore do not mind if I report back, but, in order to end this truly painful debate, I hope, Mr. Chairman, that I will help, on the line of this proposal by Ambassador Deretić, and encourage a brief discussion by my fellow Banjac, because I am calling on him now to be consistent, which I really expect. So, I suggest, obviously there is no other solution, that MPs at the House of Representatives are made known, whether we will plead on Mr Banjac's amendments and on the bill proposal, not waiting for the Council of Ministers to respond or not, that is the only solution. I am no longer prepared to be the victim of this indignity and at the same time be the hostage of the Council of Ministers of BiH. This is only a simplification, in some sense, and a precision of the proposal of counterpart Deretić and we, Mr. Chairman, propose, therefore, that MPs at the House of Representatives be made known if we will plead on the amendments, not waiting for the Council of Ministers of BiH or not, and then I will declare myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6531	Thank you very much. I'm just warning you, I'm gonna put it to a vote, but please understand that this is the question of the agenda that we've long adopted. Mr. Kadić, do you have a replica or...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6532	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, of course I absolutely don't accept the suggestion of this conclusion, because I have a proposal that is completely opposite. I propose and repeat, the BiH Council of Ministers should have declared itself, it did not come out. The House of Representatives' decision to give the Council of Ministers a deadline to plead older and stronger than the Council of Ministers' obstruction at three sessions. To repeat, our request to the Council of Ministers to continue the session, which is scheduled until 14th of this month, states about the amendments is stronger than the escape of the Council of Ministers from the pleas and, therefore, their disclaimation I consider them to remain under the original law, and that there is no need for the attitudes put forward in combination by Mr Deretić and Mr Neimarlija. There's no need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6533	Mr. Raščić, then Mrs. Balta and Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6534	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I would like a few findings to be made. The word here is that the Council of Ministers should plead. No Niko says it doesn't have to come out. The fact is that the Assembly has given the Council of Ministers time to plead, and it has not spoken. That's right. It's called administrative silence. I'm surprised none of the lawyers noticed that. So the Council of Ministers took advantage of the opportunity not to declare these amendments, and we can consider that an administrative silence. Therefore, it is left to this parliament to, in one correct way, be determined by the Rules of Procedure for further work. What I would also like to say is that we have translated a purely technical question on the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the travel documents law into political waters. We opened the question, whether it should be one way or the other, whether this or what is really distracting from the essence of things and about being questions that are on the agenda. I am sorry, but it is obvious that through information funds, the OHR has made it clear that it would be desirable for this law to be adopted and that BiH citizens are given a more decent exit from this country. I'm sorry there's no consensus between us. I am sorry that the BiH state is incorrectly mentioned in relation to, say, Švajcarska, because it is obvious that Švajcarska does not have a tutor or mentor like our country does. It would be very kind and correct for all those who wait in front of many embassies, especially in Sarajevo, and in some other countries around BiH, to allow them to access visas and passports in a more decent manner that will allow them to gain greater freedom of movement. In that sense, the opening of the entity issue, whether it threatened the rights, etc., I don't think they are fundamental issues and that the BiH Constitutional Court has made a decision on the constitutionality of the people throughout the BiH territory. I would ask you, indeed, for one correctness and for ourselves, because if we do not agree and if we do not make a consensus, it will be done by some other people who will try, say, at least as 108 Slovenia, to get the status that they can travel through EU countries with a personal map. We can't do it with ID cards, but I wish we could do it with passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6535	The wrong quote has Mrs. Rađević, so Mrs. Mara Perkanović, so Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Deretić. Excuse me, Mrs. Balta. These are replicas, Mrs. Balta, I must give them my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6536	I went out to react to a false quote by Mr. Raščić. He said, in the context of the proposal to adopt the bill, that as a consequence, citizens will receive a passport that will allow them to get out of BiH more decently. I'm reacting by saying it's completely unargumented. This bill absolutely allows no other or different citizens of BiH, but what they now have with the existing passport regime, nor is there a country in Europe, let alone in the world, which has said that citizens will be released from the visa regime, if they have such a passport. This is indeed an arbitrary claim, and if, God Bog, and this law were passed and only such a version of the BiH passport would the citizens be standing in line with the embassies of the European states.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6537	Please, I have a complaint here, Mrs. Balta, Mrs. Mara Perkanović, Mr. Dokić, and Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6538	I'd just like to answer my colleagues first, so, in a particular case, it's not at all about the silence of the administration, so to speak. The Institute, for the simple reason that the BiH Council of Ministers held at its meeting, held on 7 September, literally indicated in the last sentence, this issue will be settled on the agenda, therefore, at the next session. The next session was held, as far as I'm concerned, the day before yesterday, there was no quorum. So it's not settled for that reason. Therefore, it cannot be about the silence of the administration. At the next first session when there's a quorum, that question has to be solved, that's one thing. If you please, Mr. Chairman, although I still believe that my first proposal was absolutely consistent and clear, here, I will be now, with this proposal even more precise. So, I propose that MPs be made aware of the conclusion that the debate on this bill is being interrupted, until the BiH Council of Ministers declares on Mr Mirko Banjac's amendments. To be more specific.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6539	Thank you very much. Mrs. Balta, then Mrs. Perkanović, Mrs. Dokić, Raščić and Tokić. This is, I'm hoping the way I saw your hands, and I'm asking you to really stop this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6540	poštovati predsedništvo and colleagues, I think from session to session, I rarely report, because in these farces, when they get you right to the heat, I can't participate sitting around not to say anything. Mr. Pero Skopljak, first of all, the way you extend the session, it's really not like this House. It is not like the MPs who call for responsibility, the correctness of the work. It has neither correctness nor responsibility. If there were correctness, there would be responsibilities, so it would be known why MPs from the RS are asking for something to turn around, to agree something, to find something new, to improve the situation of this BiH, as it is and as it is imagined. I am also sorry that BiH Federation MPs are calling for tutors and mentors. Someone would be happy to have tutors and mentors, who have done so much for the Federation of BiH. Believe me, if by the indicators of how much it's done, I see it, you know, when I go through the Federation of BiH, I see how much it's done and how much it's not done in RS. It's quite a logical sequence, Mr. Silajdžić, I highly respect you, as a politician, that you have your goal. But you must respect me, too, that my goal cannot be yours and yours. Of course, our goal can be shared when you think about me having a goal. Firstly, I do not want to come to any discussion, but I want to tell you, all the obstructions of this Parliament's work stem from the parliamentary elections that brought us here, as MPs, in order to do something right in a common BiH. No amendments to the RS MPs were made without the bile debate on amendments, that none of any kind should be accepted, so I will tell you that this is the case for the application of Annex 7, to which everyone is invited. Unfortunately, I'm a party that doesn't participate in the next election, so my promotion doesn't matter as much as it matters to all of you. So, the people of BiH are no longer interested in who they are, because so much has been imposed by all those who are at the top and have made so many ugly situations for the people of BiH, who is hungry, in which they happen to work four-member families somewhere, no one from these, no one from one family. That misery, the ultimate misery, the ultimate wealth, both ways, the anti-corruption teams, who have done nothing to improve the people of this thing that they should improve, is that the funds that have gone inadequately are applied to the construction of people who should already be settled once. If you need to settle down, you should, that's what you said, I'm not going to say 98, it's a non-essential percentage of who should live, everyone should live on their own, you know. I'd like it very much, that everyone lives on their own if it wasn't for all the peripetias they call this one or the sixteenth document, which people are supposed to take on their return in variations from lawyers, whether they have it or not. So please, Mr. Skopljak, take your stand. I, as an MP, will not participate here anymore in the work of this Parliament, I will leave, I will withdraw from listening to the discussion of people, serious people, and very conscious, all of them very consciously, and all of them are unconsciously doing their work, so I would leave you, I guess you will agree, and I will follow it from the side, because there is really no such a far-fetched end, and I call, too, those tutors and mentors internationals to react the same way I did, so they can see what they are, where they are tutors, and where they are mentors and where they should be tutors and mentors, and where they should not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6541	Thank you very much. I hope, at least some of us, will accept your suggestions. Mrs. Mara Perkanović answered, and then Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Raščić, then Mr. Tokić. Forgive me if I've done it a little wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6542	I answered, the replica to Mr. Raščić, because I realized that he's imputing that someone here is against the Law on travel documents and that it's not true that there's someone here who's discussing it, is making amendments and asking for an answer to the amendments, against the law. Indeed, the international community suggests that the sooner we adopt some laws, the sooner I am for laws to be passed, but not laws that satisfy the needs of only one people or only one political option. I am in favour of agreeing here and making the laws of quality, which will satisfy everyone in BiH, who will be for the greater good and who will guarantee us a happy future. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6543	Gentlemen, I would only most sincerely ask you not to deceive the public of stories, in the sense that because of the kind of travel document we have, we are rudely standing in front of the embassies, we are rudely traveling around the world. It's absolutely not true, it's a replacement thesis, it's a prank, really, a prank. We are rudely traveling around the world, and we wait rudely or better, we can use other expressions, but here I am, using what is said here, from living in a country like this and being rudely traveling around the world, and because we are not able to arrange our own country, we are asking someone else to edit it. Making an answer, in a sense, don't compare us to Švajcarska, which has 26 variants of passports, because they don't have a tutor, and we have a tutor is the same devastating, devastating state in a single state parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6544	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished fellow Members of the BiH Council of Ministers. Namely, I have not imputed anyone to refuse to pass this law and I support Mrs Perkanović in her discussion, in her intention, and all other MPs who, in that sense, wish to contribute to the work of this Parliament. Indeed, I have pointed out to colleagues who think that the public is being deceived. If someone cheats on the public, then it's the international community, through the means of information. She has made it clear to us between the sessions, right on this agenda point, that the purpose of bringing this passport is what she said. So I quoted them. I accidentally watched OBN, and I saw it on OBN. People from OBN can provide information on whether they misquoted OHR and other international institutions dealing with this law. As for a decent journey around the world, Mr. Dokić doesn't listen to me or at least I don't see him, I'd just point out that I didn't tell him that we were being rudely traveling around the world, I just wanted us to get out of our country in a more decent way and travel around the world. There are people with diplomatic passports and other official passports who enter the EU, the US and other countries, for which our citizens are 111 interested. I don't know what the situation is with Romania, Albania and other countries for which, according to my information, BiH citizens are not interested. In that sense, I would ask fellow MPs, who said that I was misleading the public, I would just tell them that I passed on that thing, which, the information I heard through the information funds, I read in the means of information, whether our public was informed about, I don't know, I really don't want to impose a position, I don't want to impose it, but, as a man, I want to have a passport, that I don't ask from Germany some acquaintances to send me guarantees, to pay for me insurance, to make promises that I won't stay there on the burden of that state, to enjoy their well-being, etc. So the embassy decides whether I have a reason to travel or have no reason to travel through fairs and other issues concerning business co-operation and, of course, the wishes of all our peoples to re-establish technological and technical cooperation with countries as soon as we belong to technologies, especially after World Work II, and even before. Therefore, in order for the constituent peoples of BiH to come to a more quality document, that in a more dignified way they can go out whenever they want and wherever they want around the world, I am talking about this topic. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6545	I'm still Mr. Tokić, and I'm closing this debate. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6546	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, from this atmosphere of reconciliation, which had just come, and unlike the discussion of Raščić, I really think that this three-hour debate, exhaustion, that the law should not be passed, but what I have come to say is, gentlemen from the College, do not neglect the extension of any session, or any session, unless there is a willingness to work. We've been there for three and a half hours, and now we're going to vote on whether we're going to continue, whether we're going to start working, because there's no statement from the Council of Ministers, regardless of how Gligorić will say something different, I know the motives of Ibrina, why he rooted for Gligorić to come out, expecting something different from that letter that Tuševljak wrote. It's impossible. We knew that before the session started. There's no statement from the Council of Ministers. What we started the session, but anyway, in line with the general collapse that this college is creating, the old and new Rules of Procedure, this member, that member, I am now asking you to make known these proposals that are going in that direction. Is three and a half hours after the session begins, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is ready to begin the session. Put it to the vote, but in the future, don't let us argue for three and a half hours, at least you three agree, because from what I understand, you didn't agree to even begin the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6547	Okay, here we go. I have to make a suggestion. I'm sorry, I've decided. Here you go, but we're not continuing this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6548	Gentlemen, in her discussion of MPs, Miss Balta stated that the MPs of the RS are trying to impose something, or, in the direction of our 112 unity from that area. I say that we are absolutely MPs from the U.S.A. and the other MPs are absolutely for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Travel Documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6549	Thank you very much. Please, gentlemen, I am finally voting on Mr. Deretić's proposal, and it consists, please, listen to me, there will be a question, who is in favour of continuing item number three of the agenda, the proposal for a law on travel documents in BiH, who is in favour of continuing that point, or who is in favour of ending this point without the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH? Please, here, Mr. Deretić will explain it one more time. It's been a couple of times. Please, stay, dignitary.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6550	Here, I'll read it straight. So, not as a conclusion, but as a suggestion. So, that the Representative Council, or MPs, should be made aware of who is in favour of continuing to work under the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel documenting BiH, without a statement by the Council of Ministers, on the amendments of Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6551	There has to be an alternative question who's against, normally, behind it. Mr. Raščić. Please, we're not opening a debate, we're just trying to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6552	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, indeed, in addition to the obvious things about the administrative silence of the Council of Ministers, within a period of time left by this House, this House was assigned to the Council of Ministers at the previous session. The Council of Ministers has not delivered an answer until this session. It's obviously the administrative silence of the Council of Ministers, for reasons they know, I'm not going into it. Since they should give their opinion, and they don't have to, they don't oblige this council to draw any conclusions as proposed. We continue normally on the agenda. It is absolutely confusing and misleading this council to suggest any conclusion in terms of whether or not we are in favour of a statement by the Council of Ministers. Obviously, we required that statement. Obviously, they didn't want us to do it, and it's obvious that we want this agenda item to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6553	Ladies and gentlemen, since the atmosphere is really hot, I can't feel it, I feel like I'm leading on this session. I'm taking a half-hour break. 113 Gentlemen, continue the session. [[PAUZA]] You have Mr. Deretić's suggestion that we should make known here. Since I don't dare interpret his proposal, I will try to read it from here, and Mr. Deretić will say whether it is or not. Who is in favour of continuing the debate and a statement under the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH, without a statement, the final opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the amendments of Mirko Banjac. Mr. Deretić, do you agree, that's what I added in the break when I couldn't read the word. Okay. Here, he wants to replicate Mr. Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6555	Every MP has the right to propose a conclusion and present his proposal, despite his best wishes, indeed, and all the effort, I do not understand what the proposal is here and what it takes for us to adopt as Mr Deretić's proposal. I only see one question here asked by Mr. Deretić, I don't know who he is. I would ask Mr. Deretić to formulate the proposal for a conclusion, as he suggests. No question, can't conclude be a question. Form a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6556	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6557	Please, the debate is closed, we just need to...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6558	Dear Presidency, I must express my dissatisfaction. First question, and vote whether we're going to discuss something or not after three hours of discussion, I think it's out of my mind, forgive this term, maybe it's a little ugly, but I don't think it makes any sense. The other thing is, I'd like to immediately propose a new proposal for us to make a statement about this law. He, as we can see from this, quite clearly, doesn't seem to pass, but then let's not pass, to finish that whole spectacle, because, I mean, the anger catches me from thinking that I'm going to spend the next 2-3 sessions of parliament in this kind of discussion in this environment. I think you colleagues agree that we're going to the vote, so let's not finish what. It's not a single proposal, it's not the only law that hasn't passed. If we knew it didn't go through and it didn't go through, but what we're doing, I'm sorry, I have to say one thing, the people thought we were really smart when he chose us, I don't know what he's thinking right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6559	Mr. Deretić has a direct answer. Did you get that? I'm sorry, then there's Mrs. Mara Perkanović's objection. Mr. Spahić, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6560	Since we have entered into a whole new situation, since a statement on Mr Mirko Banjac's amendments has been requested, we have received arguments from the Council of Ministers as we are, I have a proposal for a conclusion. That the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will declare amendments to Mr Mirko Banjac and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel document and without the attached stance of the BiH Council of Ministers on amendments to MP Mirko Banjac. Let's put this to a vote, if that's okay. I mean, like one way out of all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6561	So please, as a member of the College, let me first answer the question that was asked about the session's appointment. We scheduled this session at the last session and determined that it would be then and then. What the BiH Council of Ministers did, ended its obligation, it is not a question of the College, and today's session began as the agenda was established on the agenda where we left off last time. The second thing, with all possible lock-up interventions and the urge not to make a statement on amendments and the bill itself, we have several times already during this session to propose that the House of Representatives declare something that is meant as a procedure, which is what it is and what it is. We are on the agenda, which is called the bill of that and that, the debate is over and we have reached the point where we should declare amendments and the bill. It can be suggested that the debate be suspended, it can be proposed that the agenda item be removed, it can be proposed that the session be completed, and the proposals to continue to do what we do and what our business obligations are are in extreme meaningless, and we ask you to follow the procedure and especially the members of the College to perform their role and duties as the Rules of Procedure requires. We are in the role of MPs, who, after the debate has been held, should be made aware of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6562	Mr. Banjac has the intervention, but I'm asking you not to open the hearing again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6563	There's no debate and I don't want to, and I'm warning the Rules of Procedure again, and, Mr. Pero, I'm sorry that I have to, as a member of the Kolegijum, that for the third or fourth time today, I'm warning of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Every messenger, so do I, as an MP, and you, and everyone else has the right to submit amendments. I've submitted the amendments. Mrs. Perkanović is now proposing whether this assembly will take my right or not. I have the right to seek the position of the BiH Council of Ministers in writing, because I will continue to seek respect for the Constitution, the law and international agreements in BiH, and I want to get it in writing. Mrs. Perkanović suggested a conclusion, to see if this house would violate the law and take away my right to seek a legal path for my amendments. What are you taking away from me? Why, gentlemen? Because you think, so let him talk, it'll be easier for him, maybe at home he can't do it from his wife, but, please, I'm telling you, do I have the right and do I have the right to conduct legally?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6564	Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6565	I'll wait for him to tell. Thank you, Tokić. So, do I have the right to the legal path of my amendments? If I don't, you, brother, decide. There isn't. Let's move on. I can't vote you alone.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6566	Please, in this particular case, I ask Mr. Deretić to give up his proposal, because this proposal excludes your proposal, according to me. This proposal has now been submitted, if you've listened. If you agree to vote for this proposal, then, OK. Please, Tokić, please, I didn't give the debate. Here you go, Mr. Tokić, if you have an intervention, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6567	I think the basic essence of Mr Banjac's amendment proposal was to get support in Parliament, and I see no reason why, after not receiving support for two failed Council of Ministers meetings, he does not try to get support in the BiH Parliament for his amendment. And I'm asking that Mr. Banjac's amendment be made here, because he's the one we discussed. Anything else, allow me, therefore, after two meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Banjac's amendment was not supported, the Parliamentary Assembly should be issued a separate statement. What are we afraid of? Everything else, all the other gymnastics, I wrote it in my first presentation, but I'm going to define you here, it's, Mr. Pero, the chairman, it's a distraction in peace, which you, as chairman, should not allow. Please, we have discussed the amendments or interrupt the session. If the College doesn't have a consensus to keep working, stop the session. What conclusions do we now, with an inversion, discuss, to disable Mr. Banjac, we vote on the content of the amendments. I insist, and that's why we met here or, gentlemen of the College, take another break, so just explain to us, which is why we were invited this morning at 12 o'clock, or today at 12 o'clock to discuss whether we're going to start working? I insist that the assembly be declared on the content of Mr Banjac's amendments, because we have held a debate on them and ask that the Parliamentary Assembly be made known about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6568	Mr. Banjac has an netačan quote, and then Mr. Deretić. 116
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6569	I don't want to mention anyone's manners, there's no need, because it's one fact. It is an netačan allegation that the BiH Council of Ministers has taken a stand on my amendments. That is precisely what Minister Gligorić said and I call on him if he should repeat it again. Therefore, he did not take the BiH Council's position on amendments and did not reject them, nor did he say he would not discuss them, on the contrary, that they would be declared at the next session. That's one thing. Secondly, Mrs. Perkanović suggests the following. The conclusion that is, you can do it, here's your chance. Mara suggests, and you don't let her propose. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will declare amendments to Mr Mirko Banjac and to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Starts and without the attached stance of the Council of Ministers of BiH on Amendments of MPs Mirko Banjac. Please, gentlemen, whether this house wants to discuss my amendments without a proper attitude, and my amendments have not been discussed. Niko one has disputed the legality of my amendments, not one single sentence, this is not where my amendments were spoken of. There's been talk here about some principled views, about this one, about interests, not interests, I want amendments to be discussed, but I want in order.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6570	In the context of this discussion by Mr Banjac, I have also made my first proposal in this context, and my proposal is absolutely contrary to Mr Tokić's proposal, which is that amendments are discussed primarily at the Council of Ministers, i.e. that the Council of Ministers of BiH declares the same. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Here in a very ugly way, very easily, what is said, from one MP, it is presented in a discussion later, in a magical way, quite different from what is said. I said it in my own statement. There's no silence here in the administration. A colleague who discussed it has to read. To read the memo that came here by the head of the Council of Ministers' cabinet, dated 13/09/2000, where it literally states that the Council of Ministers, at a meeting of 7 September, did not discuss this issue, for the reason there was no quorum, but the last sentence is, this issue will be on the agenda next week. That meeting was held the day before yesterday, as far as I'm aware, there was no quorum. Here Mr Gligorić literally stated who was not present at the meeting and for which the Council could not take its stand, which means that the Council will take its position on these issues at the first next meeting and we will have the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH on Mr Banjac's amendments. That's why I suggested it for the first time, and I said that we should first state here whether we would even discuss this bill before the same Council of Ministers of BiH is declared, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6571	We're back in the debate, and we've three times concluded that the debate is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6572	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers. In this act that we have received, it is obvious that the Council of Ministers has not spoken out within the time limit set, and the deadline left is today's session of this assembly and this has nothing to do with whether we will vote on Mr Banjac's amendments or not, but there is clearly administrative silence from the Council of Ministers. She regulates herself by the Constitution. We, as Parliament and MPs, had the right to have an answer, according to the Constitution, right? They didn't do it. Therefore, there is administrative silence. What are the reasons for administrative silence, I'm not getting into it, and I don't think you're at all correct that there's no administrative silence. Here is the administrative silence set by the deadline set by this congregation. Of course, and it is not up to the government to answer any parliamentary question, and it is not the government's duty to know every answer to any parliamentary question, and it has the right to remain administratively silent, if it considers it productive for the country's interest. Well, obviously, you didn't have any law books, and obviously you don't know what administrative silence means. Given the character of your education, I don't blame you, so I can discuss this problem. I think we should get in the right way in the debate, i.e. the vote on amendments, and then the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6573	netačan quote by Mr Mirko Banjac and Mrs Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6574	Ambassador, administrative silence shall apply in the administrative procedure. In this case, there is no administrative procedure and please don't waste time here, don't, as Bog please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6575	I'm saying I don't accept pleading to any conclusion at this present stage. When the College called for an extension of the session, he had a letter bearing the date of 12, received in Parliament 13. If they wanted to, they could not schedule a follow-up until the BiH Council of Ministers came forward. When we started working, it was the basis for us to plead then, possibly whether we would work without the BiH Council's position, but when we brought the debate to an end and four hours, we spent more than four hours here talking about this, now to be clear whether we were going to talk about it is really funny. Please, we have a regular procedure. We didn't get the views of the BiH Council of Ministers. We accepted, starting work that we would work without those attitudes. Therefore, we now need to plead by the amendment procedure. I do not dispute Mr. Banjac that he can submit amendments and it would be bad for us to challenge his right to plead on these amendments, but let us not dispute our right to declare his amendments either. I am in favour of pleading on the amendments, but after all this time now to conclude that we will not work without the Council of Ministers' stance, we are both funny to ourselves and to people.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6576	Please, an incorrect allegation, again an incorrect allegation, I have the right to speak, if necessary, a hundred times. 118 Gentlemen, you will not tire me, I will speak a hundred times, if it is necessary, but don't let us serve the false facts here. It's not about us discussing the point. It's quite clear here, in conclusion it's said, that there's only one statement left. We can postpone the plea until we get the bet. That's right, such a solution is businessly possible, and you go ahead, do whatever you want. You have a chance, gentlemen, to plead and break it, here, you have the conclusion, plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6577	I'll just repeat here, I don't know if my colleague was here from the beginning, ever since this session started, I immediately suggested that we make a statement on this proposal. So why wasn't it done? Why was it discussed for four hours, so you are now pointing to this failure and whose failure it is, I am not going to enter it, but at the beginning of the session, as proposed to the Rules of Procedure, I made a proposal for a statement here to the Representative Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6578	Mr. Chairman, I would really like us to finish the discussion, and as I recall, you once said: I am concluding a debate on this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6579	I've locked her up twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6580	If it's closed, then we only have the chance to vote. However, I would like to ask one question here, it seems to me that for the first time in some parliamentary procedure, as I see it, one MP gives more meaning to the Council of Ministers' opinion than to the opinion of parliamentarians. We, if we did not give in the discussion, and it was a discussion of the amendments, opinion, means that we understand them and that we have our position and that we can vote on them, and I suggest what Mrs. Muminagić said, let us vote on the amendments, if Mr. Banjac is more to the Council of Ministers' opinion than to ours, then we do not even have to vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6581	Please, the debates are over for the third time. So, I'm voting on the proposal you heard from Mrs. Perkanović. So, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will declare amendments to Mr Mirko Banjac and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel document and without the attached stance of the Council of Ministers of BiH and amendments to MPs Mirko Banjac. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6582	Well, there's been a vote. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6583	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I was quite precise, for the first time in all these possible extensions, and I asked the exact question. How is it possible that Mr. Chairman, Mr. Banjac, Mr. Skopljak and Mr. Genjac, do not respect the order of proposals they have made. I asked Mr. Skopljak, as chairman, to regulate the relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament, and I thank him for allowing Mr. Gligorić to speak and tell his court. It was in article 96, paragraph 3, and now I want to say that according to all the rules and rules of the game, Mr Deretić, when he offered a proposal from Mr Pamuk or someone else who had already made the proposal, said he could not be made known about the proposal coming after him. I am Mr. Deretić... Mr. Deretić, if you insist that your proposal be on the agenda first, how can you suspend my proposal, which was made at the beginning of the debate today, today at 12 o'clock? How can you for four hours, five hours in breaks, ignore the fact that I suggested that you approach the vote, because every debate is exhausted. Mr. Skopljak has concluded this debate. By 14, we had not received a response from the BiH Council of Ministers. I asked in the beginning that Mr Gligorić plead, not because he would support my position or reject my position, because it is his right to plead according to his political and professional – expert arrangement, as minister. He pleaded and pleaded Mr. Minister and said, so now I want another sentence to say what Mr. Banjac forgets all the time. He said, gentlemen, that is the position, which I must say, as Minister, to protect Mr. Tuševljak's presence at the Olympics, I say as a minister that we did not have, as they say, the conditions for quorum, but on you as a parliament, here is Mr. Gligorić here, to decide on this bill, as we have offered Mr. Gligorić, here, there is also a stenogram to look at, in no way, very correctly, professionally, it was not a question of Parliament's decision. How is it possible that parliamentarians are contesting their right to decide. So that's my point of view, and I'm undermining it one more time. I'm fully in favour of making a statement on the proposals, you're right, Rakić, a little quieter, to make a statement on Mr. Banjac's amendments. I'm protecting his integrity as an MP, and I want his integrity to be protected to the extent that we plead, since we've spoken to Mrs. Ana Havel, and now I want to say something that I've come to my business. By declaring Mr Gligorić's positive statement in the last follow-up on Mrs Ana Havel's proposal and amendments. Proposals, if you compare Mrs. Ana Havel's amendment and Mr. Banjac's amendment, that's why I said for the first time that I don't understand at all where the nature and character of these amendments are completely excluded from each other. So, technically, Mrs Havel made it clear that it was the law on the single passport of the BiH state, with a single base and that she was talking about entities and other accessories, which were in the text of the proposal, etc. It doesn't stand, and the Council of Ministers gentlemen have stood behind the amendments to the technical, essential Mrs. Ana Havel. I now repeat once again, I asked at the beginning, and I first proposed, the first to ask for a word, to vote according to the procedure that is normal, to respect ourselves, to declare who is in favour, who is against, who is abstention to Mr. Banjac's amendments, and it is the exact same proposal by Mrs. Perkanović. Now the suggestion yes or no makes no sense. The voting procedure should be approached. That's the point. Since my first proposal was, I did not ask to vote on my proposal, but to approach the plea, in line with the exhausted foro... the statements about, in principle, the proposal and the amendments. I couldn't accept any other interpretation, as far as 120 of me as an MP. As for someone now after the debate will repeat, I am, undermining again, offering some new law. I do not fully dispute Mr. Banjac that he is proposing a new law of three, of six and of twelve or 26 passports, if BiH is so divided and democratic interests tend so much to the Swiss model, but that is the future time, and in the future, Banjac is an expert and I suggest that Mr. Banjac commit himself to this time of the future, and now to provide the voting procedure for this document and for this law, and for the future I vote the same as we all do here, but now I am asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6584	Mr. Banjac has a replica, so Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6585	The first thing I want, the most sincerely I want, and I ask the Secretariat that a stenogram of Ibri's discussion delivers to Ibro, because when he reads, he'll see where everything goes counter to what he's saying. Dear Ambassador Spahić, you asked for the procedure to be voted on, it is, sir, in the legal dictionary of the procedure, conducting the procedure. Mrs. Perkanović's conclusion requires whether it will be the procedure. Therefore, the order of events is quite clear, my dear fellow MP, and you cannot dispute it, it is business. No Niko argues that you have the right to conduct the procedure and what you deny my amendments, that's your position and I'm not going into it. I'm not getting into it, it's your attitude, but please, honestly, I didn't mean anything by it that the gentlemen laughed at, I really wanted you to see your stenogram. You asked to conduct the procedure. I have no objection to the procedure, but Mrs. Perkanović asks with her conclusion whether there will be a procedure. It's a big difference, gentlemen. After the plea, her conclusion has no value. The order of events can be like this, what will be the result, I don't know. Don't, gentlemen, please, let's make a deal about it. Mr. Chairman, I would not like to read the Rules of Procedure again, when the question of who is in favour begins, it is a sign of the start of the vote and cannot be given a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6586	Thank you very much. Mr. Deretić, this proposal, or question, as you will, information, I don't know how I'm going to define it here, the proposal excludes your proposal. I have to ask you. Do you give up your proposal then, if this proposal goes to the vote. You're giving up. Please, however, I finally put this proposal to Mrs. Perkanović's vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6587	It is true that the Rules of Procedure provide for a procedure and it is true that the Rules of Procedure foresees what it means when voting is started, however, voting should begin and issues of elemental need to be clarified in order to start voting. Elemental issues are the content of the proposal and the chronology of the proposal. Please, I don't think anywhere in the world has been reported to be put to vote, to continue working on the work that is already going on. There is always a proposal to be tabled, and it is possible to put an end to the debate, to suspend the debate, to delay the debate, etc. And finally, to be clear, please, this proposal, as the chairman intends to put it to the vote, means that at any moment the assembly, at every point in the agenda, every MP has the 121 right to propose we continue to work. And if most of them don't make a point of continuing to work, the one that suggests, if he's going to obstruct, he has a fantastic instrument. So, the proposal continues to work. Any point can be removed from the agenda. Please, however this session ends, whatever we say, it is irrefutable that MPs and the House of Representatives have all the prerequisites to declare one law and amendments after a debate has been held. I ask you to approach the plea, as proposed chronologically, and to put MPs' proposals in shape as requested by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6588	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6589	Since we interrupted the session at the last session, requesting a statement from the Council of Ministers on Mr Banjac's amendments, we came to a situation today when we did not get an answer to the amendments. We are in a new situation when we can respect Mr Gligorić's argument that they have not refused to discuss the amendments, but there have been such circumstances that they could not make any decision on this issue, which suggests that they will discuss it. We have come to one situation so that we can respect Mr. Banjac's right to the amendments, to get an answer from the Council of Ministers. We have one opportunity not to respect Mr Banjac's right and not to wait for a reply from the Council of Ministers and to make a statement, which is why I have made such a proposal to make it clear whether we are in favour of disabling the right of the MP to respond, to amendments by the promoters, or to wait for an answer, a written response to the amendments, and then to make a statement about the bill. We have a new situation, and that's why I made such a suggestion to see how we're going to move on. I'm asking Mr. Chairman to put my proposal to the vote. And we have the opportunity to plead for, against or abstention, everyone has an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6590	I ask you, since this session really does not have the conditions to continue, that I will put you to vote on its continuation, or its prolonging.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6591	I would just like to say, the statement of the BiH Council of Ministers to the amendments is not only given to the MP who has given the amendments, given to Parliament, to all MPs. Therefore, we would have done well to get that statement, but we didn't get it all, not just Mr. Banjac. So, we're all denied, not just him. The amendments show the BiH Council of Ministers to all MPs. If he accepts them, they become an integral part of the law. If he does not accept them, then we can at the request of the one who has proposed to lead them to further discussion and possibly plead. I want to be precise here. Mrs. Perkanović is wrong. We do not deny Mr. Banjac the right to receive an answer, we are all denied for an answer. 122
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6592	Thank you very much. My lords, I'm giving you a vote. Who is it for this session to be interrupted until the BiH Council of Ministers' final statement? Please, will you tell me what would be the real deadline?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6593	Mr. Chairman, I can tell you that the Council session will not be here until 25th, when most ministers and the chairman will return. I need to tell you technically.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6594	I'm not opening a debate, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6595	If I may ask, I demand that it be a deadline. It was due by 14, Mr. Tuševljak took over publicly. I don't see any reason. I understand why some ministers look forward to Mr. Banjac's intervention when it comes to my request. I understand, Mr Kurtović, your reaction, but I assure you, if the BiH Parliament does not deliver today a deadline of 48 hours, 72 hours, seven days, we will come into a position to simply humiliate this parliament to infinity. It must be until the BiH Council of Ministers, after two meetings, has not spoken out and I demand that it be maximum, here, if not 48 hours, to be within three days and indeed has in the statutes, according to the Rules of Procedure, a way to summon the Council of Ministers of BiH and provide its quorum. I can't understand that decision-making quorum, I can't understand that BiH can say that it's now until 25th without the Council of Ministers, that's not true. I know the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and Parliament to be at a minimum, we interrupt the session, but with a deadline until it becomes known. Let them say we accept, we don't accept, it's correct, but it has to be a deadline. Please, at least a little self-worth. Nothing else, and I'm not asking for any other statement and don't let them speak 25. - 25 is not a deadline. It is impossible, it cannot be accepted by Parliament. Three days can, and no more.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6596	Please, according to the Rules of Procedure, under the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the situation is envisaged that the temporary absentee of the Council of Ministers can be replaced and is foreseen to be replaced. In addition, most ministers needed for the quorum, for the rightful decision of the Council of Ministers is present and I think it is quite appropriate, after the Council of Ministers has three times extended us, to have the maximum period of 72 hours, and I ask you that as Parliamentarians we have that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6597	I therefore appreciate that we are looking for a way out of this situation, but, gentlemen, 42 MPs in this House of BiH were elected in direct elections, ahead of their parties or coalitions, two years ago. Some of them run for next election, I'm one of them. I do not allow myself to be humiliated by praying and kneeling 123 in front of new and new terms, a non-existent and conducting BiH Council of Ministers on amendments. I'm against giving any time limit to this Council of Ministers, because if they wanted to, they'd plead. That's a very precise attitude. The fact that I may not have gathered ten signatures at the moment, which takes twenty days to launch a debate on the mistrust of the Council of Ministers, is now a business procedure. I'm surprised some of them didn't resign because of what they did to us here. They've blocked Parliament. They are destroying BiH's basic state institution and taking a tourist trip to Sydney. Mr. Tuševljak was better off accepting the proposal for a law on sports than he went to the Sydney Olympics. It is unacceptable to tear down the BiH Parliament's institution at this time, and I will say holding this parliament hostage, and for the third time we are continuing the session and keeping us in office as hostages, and therefore, Mr Banjac, their failure could be interpreted as not accepting the amendment, i.e., staying in the original proposal for a law on travel documents, it is the only logical statement at this point. And I'll conclude, whoever thinks we should interrupt the session, then needs to ask another question, another conclusion, and he can be like this. That's a suggestion to Mr. Deretić. Ask, Mr. Deretić, for a session to be suspended until the BiH Council of Ministers has declared, so let those who are in favour of an end to the situation be voted upon.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6598	Thank you very much. Mr. Deretić, here you go, Mrs. Mara Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6599	Since there was a good, indeed, intention to bring in at least this point, in any way, about making a decision, so I gave up my proposal, but after that, what happens happens. I thank my colleagues Kadić for his suggestion, however, I cannot accept it as it is suggested by him. I'm staying with that proposal I made right after he made his proposal to Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6600	When you're making a deal, we'll make a deal. Please, in the situation where we are, I believe that this session really does not have the right flow, so please, I have a contiguous proposal, for which I ask you, he is the only real one, to make it clear that this session is being interrupted, for or against the clear, until the final answer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and our task of the College, to do so with special pressure on the Council of Ministers of BiH, to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6601	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6602	I agree with you, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6603	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please allow me something. I think we've lost a lot of time here. I think this is all, after all, a shame. I think there's a situation here where there's been more tampering than a smart talk, and I think it's just a little bit too much. Here, in fact, two political concepts conflict. However, this is a political issue, and it is not our place to directly participate in this. But, I believe, if there is nothing to break this session, and I agree with Mr. Kadić to set one time when another session should be, and the Council of Ministers to make explicit announcements about Mr. Banjac's amendments. I think that we should, and if we should, Parliament, or anyone, also warn the Council of Ministers maybe of its leniency, because I think we've had enough of the thepherics here, that we should, however, be working and that this Bosnian Herzegovina is expecting us a little bit more, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6604	I must protest that my motion is not put to the vote. The proposal to interrupt the session is in favour of no one voting against the right of MPs to receive an answer to the amendments. So why don't you vote for my proposal and verify it the same?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6605	Well, we have a lot of suggestions, and we're not running away from putting your vote, but I'm asking you, this session, however, as it is, we have to bring it to an end. I ask representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers to tell us when it is possible to hold a session and that it has a quorum at all, so that we can meet. In my view, here, I now agree with Mr. Kadić that we are really in a very ungrateful position and that from this position we must simply impose ourselves and get out of this mode of work, because here we are responding, and in fact the blockade is happening who knows which tracks. I ask the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers to tell us when the first term is that the quorum can be realized and that the quorum will be the ultimate point of the agenda. Please, I'm telling you, to keep the 4th and 5th going correctly and effectively, not to ask the Council of Ministers to grant us our wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6606	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I am indeed in an awkward position. I would not want any MP to understand that the Council of Ministers wants to humiliate any minister and, of course, the House of Representatives that we are responsible for. Indeed, a set of different circumstances has led us to this position today, and when I was going out, I hear someone say it's guaranteed when that session will be. I told you that Mr. Chairman should return to 25, which means 26 can hold a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but at the same time I ask you to have understanding, you seek responsibility. Mr. Chairman, to whom you have called, said in his statement not that the minister is a free shooter, but that the ministry and minister is autonomous and that for these reasons he was not informed, although we had previously agreed that we should be at a meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I can also only claim to myself that professionally and responsibly, whenever it is a session of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I absolutely never plan anything and it is only for me to repay professionally for the trust I have received from you. 125 How in that case, if the chairman, as chairman, said about the autonomy of the ministries, which, by all means, which I also respect, can plan for a certain time, which you condemn, and I can come under your criticism tomorrow, rightly so, if it is not, then, if we speak hypothetically, quorum. I ask you that, I can do everything for myself, really, that this session is then and that it is realistic that it happens then, but the question of responsibility that you want to book, first of all, we need to understand that the chairman is responsible for the functioning of the Council of Ministers and that ministers, within that, must respect whenever the Council is held. Don't ask me to guarantee exclusively for someone who can be absent for one reason or another, and we can get into a difficult situation. Of course, you, as a House of Representatives, can determine any term. We can also hold a session in the short term and, of course, make it clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6607	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have an actual state of affairs, Mr. Dokić, come on, if there's one specific one to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6608	Of course, in the end, the proposal must exude this entire session. So, as serious as the session is, so will the proposal be serious. It seems to me that the only way out of this situation is to order a special plane, to get the rest of the Council of Ministers on board a plane, to jump up to Sidnej and hold a session and come back, and all that can be done in three days. If this country has 35 million marks to change one travel document that is completely legitimate and legal, then there are also a million marks that the rest of the ministers, indeed, see little of what it looks like at the Sydney Olympics. Thank you very much. The session is over for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6609	I ask you, however, to bring this end, and what we can offer, is that we should at least continue to do it properly, that, however, we have a chance for the Council of Ministers of BiH to have a quorum, everything else I think is an illusion. And here, according to what we hear, it's 26. I, in that context, with all my apologies possible, ask you to state, who is in favour of this session, I would say infamous, but it is not the order to say so in front of you, extends until the final statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it will be, if Bog so, this month. Who am I to interrupt this session and such a proposal to continue this session? Who's in? I'm asking everyone, please make a statement. Who's against it? Ladies and gentlemen, of the 29 present – 11 voted in favour – 9 voted against, therefore this proposal did not go through.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6610	That's not true. That proposal has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6611	According to the entities, who is for, for, for the session to be interrupted, to ask from the Federation of BiH, who is for this session, under these conditions, to be interrupted and continued on 26.9., who is for? From RS, who's in? Here we go again. So I'm saying once again that this proposal didn't go through either. They say we should get this to a match. According to our Rules of Procedure, this is now going to be agreed upon. Ladies and gentlemen, then we continue to work, I don't really know what to do, how to act. Mr. Malić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6612	The proposal for further work, given that we have exhausted all the debate, and the Council of Ministers has not spoken out, and we are adopting a final version of the law, I propose that we declare ourselves to the amendments and the law, regardless of which the Council of Ministers of BiH has not spoken out, because the Council of Ministers has before, we have received such instructions, was unique in the bill. Otherwise, I propose a second proposal that MPs who are for a single passport sign a petition and instruct the High Representative to impose such a law. Why? I am a witness that those who talk about how people will pay come to Sarajevo and take out passports, so that they can easily walk Western Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6613	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6614	Please, there can't be any discussion about any new proposals before you make a statement about my proposal. I'm really protesting. It's high time to make a statement about the proposal, no one's going to make a statement about the first proposal. Let's go with the first proposal, then the second proposal, then the third proposal, so let's get to the bottom of all the suggestions, let's do it in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6615	Here you go, Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6616	Dear gentlemen, I am expressing the strongest protest over the manipulation, because it is not going to put Mrs. Perkanović to the vote and you are putting me in a position to publicly declare that I am leaving the protest session for this kind of behaviour. This is inadmissible behavior in the BiH Parliament, which is trendy. It can't be done like this. If someone's been instructed not to put it on, tell them who it's from, but it has to be respected what's called a business procedure, put it to a vote and move on. If he doesn't adopt, if he adopts, he has a way. Please, if it is not put to the vote, I, as an MP, will be forced not to participate in this staged. 127
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6617	Everything will be put to the vote as you ask, but I ask that it be in the correct order.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6618	Gentlemen Chairman, my colleague Banjac, this has really gone beyond the scope of this nausea, and, apparently, I've just been going out with the intention of finding a compromise solution, however, out of the condition that we now have, Mr. Banjac, are clearly exhausted all the possibilities of finding a solution. In situations like this, the only way out... form, the formal reason is only valid. The formal reason in this case is that all the suggestions that are put here are important and only remains to go chronologically, as they are set up. The first proposal was the proposal by MP Spahić to make a statement on amendments and legislation, it was the first proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6619	Please, I believe that the conditions for this session are not satisfactory and therefore, I am asking you to order or we will interrupt the session. Please. We'll put all your suggestions on the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6620	Mr. Banjac, this is my first experience in this assembly, and it's rich for everyone, and I mean that one MP is so fiercely and incredibly struggling against saying to the MPs about his amendments and the possibility of him voting for his amendments himself, I mean that's amazing to me, it's an amazing experience. I was forced to say that, although I had no intention. I was about to really find a solution, because this is the ultimate indignity. The solution is the only formal solution. There were Bog knows how many proposals, if a stenogram is needed, I know for sure that the first Ibrahim Spahić discussed and his first proposal was to make a statement about the amendments and the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6621	Mr. Neimarlija, the amendments are mine and there is no right Mr., there is no business law for Mr. Spahić to ask for my amendments to be declared, I am the owner of the amendment. I'm asking, wait a minute, sir, I, as an MP, of course, gentlemen, the arguments don't mean much to you, that's quite clear, but what I can do to you. You'll have to listen to them, no matter what you want. I'm looking for a procedure. I can give up, I can ask for a statement. I'm the one who sent the amendment to the promoter. If the promoter had written that he didn't want to make a statement about it, that's the second situation, then I have the right to give up or say, I ask that the Assembly, the House pleads. Since he's clear, of course it's not worth making arguments here. Come on, guys, let's hear it. The Council of Ministers sent a memo saying that at the next session, they would plead, and I am asking them to plead. So, no one can take away my right to be a businessman, you can't do that, gentlemen. 128 you can't do that. You can do it to vote on the law without amendments. The amendments are mine and you can vote on the law without amendments. That's quite clear, I don't object to that. I will express my opposition by voting. But, please, the amendments are mine and I'm looking for a procedure, and that's why I suggested that you listen to what Mara wrote, and that's where you can throw away my right to the amendments, I can't fight it. You don't have to defend, thank you for your efforts, let it go. No problem. You can declare here today that you want to vote on the law without my amendments, that you can, that there is no dispute, Mr. MP, but what I have suggested, I am the owner of it until it is adopted or not...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6622	Dear gentlemen, it is quite clear here that the first speaker came out today by fellow Spahić, with a proposal to vote on the amendments that are here today on the agenda. However, to those fellow MPs who think that this session will thus result in a vote on the law and amendments, that the law will be rejected and the conditions created for the High Representative to... I want to say. Mr Spahić's proposal absolutely does not mean the outcome of this session, because in that case, I will ask to vote on his proposal whether to vote on the amendment. So he can suggest, but that does not mean that the chairman will say who is for the amendments, but should say who is in favour of accepting Mr Spahić's proposal, and then we come to the exact same situation as voting on the conclusion of Mare Perkanović. So from every situation, there's a way out, but I don't see who this is or what this is for.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6623	Please, everyone has replicas. Mr Spahić, however... Mrs Perkanović, Mr Deretić, Mr Neimarlija, and Spahić, all the replicas, unfortunately. I can't compare you, I don't know who to...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6624	I just want to get one more thing straight here. There have been many stories on the Council of Ministers and on how to reach a final solution and resolution and debate on amendments. Mr. Attending Minister, and no one here has found, although accusing the Council of Ministers, has clearly read which three ministers were not attending the session that was scheduled. None of these ministers are RS. Don't transfer obstruction to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6625	Unfortunately, I guess today we're in such a position to say the same thing three times in order for everyone to understand things. In my last discussion, I really said that Mr. Spahić made his first proposal, the second one, and then the others. However, I said the same thing then, and I am now saying, if we were to go in this order, then my proposal would not make any sense at all, because Mr Spahić is asking to vote on the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel document and amendments to Mr Banjac, and I am asking that the first vote be voted on whether it makes sense at all to vote on it, before the Council of Ministers of BiH is declared, and in this context, if we were to go in this order, then my proposal, and Perkanovićke, and I don't know who else has proposed the proposal, would have no meaning. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6626	Fellow MPs, I said earlier that I was reluctant to resort to this formal argument, however, I was forced by my colleague Banjac, claiming that the amendments were his. Comrade Banjac, the moment you forwarded them, when they were passed to the House of Representatives, they are no longer yours and let's not treat them like that. With this in mind, if at the beginning of the session, before Ibro Spahić, if a colleague of Banjac had said before Ibrahim Spahić, I suggest that my amendments, which I have given, are not spoken by the predstavnički of Representatives before we get an answer from the Council of Ministers, this would be important and we would have first declared ourselves. I'm just saying, we're left with this formal order of suggestions. You didn't suggest it, and the amendments aren't yours, they're the House of Representatives, and other things. That Ibri's proposal is full, there's something that's been trying to change. He said, with his very clear proposal, that this house, according to the Rules of Procedure, is not obliged, at all costs, to respect the Ministerial Council's reply and you, a colleague of Banjac, made it clear, unlike counterpart Deretić, only says it should, and does not say it is necessary, that it must be. So, people, this is a painful situation. There is no other solution, if we want to be honest with ourselves, but to resort to the formal order of things, and Spahic's proposal was the first. The fact that the other proposals are being questioned by the constant proposal is not the fault of the proposal, but of the fact that we have debated for four and a half hours, in fact in vain, and that we have only come to a formal reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6627	I want to tell you gentlemen, back to the Rules of Procedure. The amendments, according to the old rules of procedure, fellow Members of Parliament, are sent to the Proposer. If the promoter, I'll say it for a new one, I'll say it all right. If the Proposer refuses the amendments, it's my job to give up or offer the House a plea. So, I haven't done it to you yet, as it were. According to the new one, the amendments are delivered to the Commission at least 48 hours before. That procedure wasn't even carried out. The Commission is in line with me. If he responds negatively to me, my right to amend me again, in the same or processed form, will be sent to the House. I didn't do it either. Therefore, there are no conditions to go to the House. There's no business. I do not dispute, once again say, that it declares the law without amendment. That is why it stands for this conclusion by Mrs. Perkanović, to see if you will vote on the law without amendments, so vote, take away my right, but I want it recorded in the stenogram to take away my right. I will specifically and clearly tell you and I do not understand you who you are against. Why are you doing this? The situation around this law will be quite clear. He obviously won't be adopted. You can see that already. But there's one legal thing. Here, the Council of Ministers rejects the amendments, even the means of informing are being misused. Please, that's not true, that's why you're asking for a statement from the Council of Ministers. There's always talk here, the Council of Ministers said, so let's see if he said so he can drop them off. I don't mind throwing them away, but, please, I want it written and then I'm going to ask for a change of the Council of Ministers, because they're violating Bonska, New njujorški, Madrid Declaration and the BiH Constitution. There's no Sarajevo. It's not regulated. That question wasn't regulated. So we need to make a deal. What's your hurry? It's definitely the same fate. It's the same fate. What 130 Haris says, maybe a man knows she'll be forced into it. I don't know. Maybe the man's right, and he says it's safe, so look what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6628	Okay, thank you. That we're trying to bring an end. I don't know if there are any applications for discussion. Mr. Spahić is first, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6629	Mr. Chairman, and I would like to say that at no point, it is a stenogram, it must remain remembered, I did not wish to challenge Mr. Banjac's right to make amendments and I remain on the stand to defend the amendments he has given. I was just surprised to get into a four-and-a-half-hour discussion that a larger group of MPs were behind the amendment, which I said, and it was written in a stenogram. Mrs. Rađević said there was a group standing, but I'm not slowing it down, and that's all possible. But I'm saying, I thought it was about your amendment. I suggested you withdraw the amendment in this break, I thought you were ready to build some relationships and you would gladly do so, to create conditions, Mr. Banjac, as chairman, one of the co-chairs of this house, to create a condition to vote this law, to put it to the vote. You said you didn't want to withdraw the amendments. I asked you very precisely, as a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6630	I'm looking for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6631	I then drew your attention to the fact that I demand, since Mr Deretić was very precise and correct, he made his proposal. Mrs. Perkanović presented, of course, as always, Mrs. Perkanović made her proposal and I have my proposal. I formally want to protect, as I am protecting your right to amendments, I want to protect my right to respect the order of things, to make it clear to you fine on this law, on your amendments, and as far as Mrs. Mare Perkanović and Mr. Deretić and Mrs. Pamuk and others are concerned. You know, there's one rule of things in this House, and everywhere, if someone makes a proposal, we can't prejudge the situation of things after that vote, maybe my proposal doesn't go. Maybe my proposal doesn't get most of it here, but I have the right to legitimately fight for him to get most of it. I didn't ask for the High Representative's intervention, although I do know, Mr. Banjac, that the High Representative can decide in two ways. She can decide, as Mrs. Rađević said, to wait as a script. There is no scenario here, because if there is no vote on this proposal, the same powers of the High Representative, from the Dayton Peace Agreement, are to declare a law of interest, which he considers to be in line with the Dayton Agreement. So it's not about the script. In no word have I called upon the High Representative and his intervention, ever. You've never heard that from me about this pay phone. If there's anyone, she's got to quote some lines. I'm only interested in one fact that you realize that not all MPs here want to live by someone's script, by some internal scenario. You live by the scenario of life. I thought today that we would effectively decide, in accordance with the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that by 14, we would bring our views on 131 amendments, we were positive, we were negative, we would vote on the law, go through or not, and I asked for intervention, I asked for the interpretation of economic policy and the resolution of economic policy, I thought it was important for us, because you supported it, as you said, whether we were all looking for it together, no, whether you were looking for it, but we were all looking for it together, that's two at home, looking for a year. We came up with something when in September, according to our programme, we can hold an emergency session of both homes on the economic and social situation. I pointed out Mr. Kurtović's work, four five times, here inviting him to speak and listed everything in that interpretation when what was done was done. Expecting a reaction related to everything you've been saying, social, economic and other arguments, you've listed that it was an economic requirement first, Mr. Raščić, and then let the other points of the Brussels Declaration come. I totally agree with that. I wrote you the text and it is no longer my text and it is the text of the BiH Parliament, the interpretation and this resolution, but I also understood Mr Banjac's amendment, the amendment of Mrs Ana Havel, to the same level. If the Council of Ministers of BiH, if anyone who proposed had the opportunity to plead, and had not spoken out, and we had very clear provisions about it, I felt that, in fact, in the environment of this which we have in our home, I had the right to propose and I suggested that we discuss and allow Mr Banjac to explain his amendments and defend them, either to pass or not to pass, as well as any other proposal and then to join, or to integrate those amendments into the law, so that we would vote in full on that law or to accept some parts of his amendments, since he has more variations. He's absolutely right. We didn't give him a chance to fight, and Mr. Banjac didn't have a chance to fight for his amendments. We can't deny him that right. He needs to fight, and we need to make a statement about it. When there is a statement, then it will be seen how it can successfully defend what attitude. Please declare and vote in the order of things, Spahić, Deretić, Perkanović, Pamuk.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6632	Please record the list of Members present, who were present at the beginning of the session. So, a list of present and present at the beginning of the session. I didn't lead the last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6633	Here, behind these right lines, many times today have been called upon to declare this law. Well, gentlemen, why didn't you also report for the declaration of electoral law? I am not in favour of imposing the law, and I believe that the High Representative will not do it, for one simple reason, which must once make us agree and find a compromise, for a solution that will suit all the peoples of BiH and all the citizens of BiH wherever they are. This debate is not in vain. Probably this demand for this common thread, these laws that will be so high-quality that they will be acceptable to the masses, and when the peoples in BiH accept them, they are permanent and then they are laws, and otherwise, they are the problem and I call once again to plead on my proposal and to work constructively on everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6634	Dear Members of the Parliament, I am faced today, on several occasions, with the very awkward behaviour of my fellow Genjac, who seeks to interfere with the chairman in running the session, agreeing beside me on behalf of the Kolegijum, and I will leave the meeting if that happens again. So, I, as a member of the Kolegijum, am not allowed to participate in the conduct of the session and the negotiation of how to proceed. I'm looking for the protection of Parliament or I'm leaving the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6635	Please, Mr. Banjac, I'm really trying to respect your opinion as well as my colleague, and I'm trying so hard to hold a session. If this is where the proposals came from Mr Spahić, Mr Deretić, and Mrs Perkanović, I don't know why I can't vote on Mr Spahić's proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6636	What's his suggestion, let's see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6637	Mr. Banajc, you've become contentious, and I'm trying to choose for you to vote on your amendments. Please, I'm trying to get Mr. Banjac, the co-chair, to get a chance to vote on his amendments all the time and fight for Mr. Banjac's ideas and attitudes... democracy. I'm asking for a very precise vote, please, I made the first point of view of the law, that means amendments as well. I said precisely, we voted and accepted Mrs. Havel's amendments, let's accept or reject Mr. Banjac's proposals and pass the law, see, that's very specific. I don't know what to do more specifically. But as for Mr. Banjac, please, I have to intervene. Mr. Banjac, you're trying, me, and about as much as most MPs here, we could stop in this debate, but it's about one sphere. I am defending the idea of voting on Mrs Perkanović's proposal, Mr Deretić, and my proposal, simply because I believe that our three proposals are trying to build a relationship in Parliament, don't prevent it from happening. I have one concrete proposal now, so that we no longer torture Parliament, I suggest on my behalf that you three members of the College begin a consensus on how you will bring the end of tonight's session and that we simply come into a position to end this in some way, because it makes no sense to torture each other with stenograms. If I open up your stenograms, then, listen to me, don't make me do it, because there's no reason. Trust needs to be built here. I, with full confidence, have suggested that you give up your amendments and I tell you, believe you will do well for yourself and the citizens of BiH, both in the RS and the Federation of BiH and for the exit, as Mr. Rečica would say, and I think for entering BiH, because not only for going out, because we have no intention of making passports to go out but also for entering, for moving freely. I'd like to, look, I didn't want to call him, but somehow you inspired me, Mr. Banjac, to remember all the words people said. Don't obstruct one good will of mine to build your right, to preserve it. Do not ask me and your fellow Members to protect you from Mr Genjac and Mr Skopljak. Sit down and make a deal. Tell me what you're going to suggest to see you conduct this session properly. If you have three suggestions, try about three proposals to gather or five proposals, there may be a new proposal. If neither Spahićev's proposal nor Deretic's or Perkanović Mare succeeds, then it will have to be 133 that new situation, but don't bother us not to respect my request, the first request, which was repeated three times during your submission of the amendment, after fourteen days, let's vote on the bill proposal and vote on all amendments, and if there are new and old and new rules. Don't put me in a position to repeat to you the same thing, which stands five times, on my side is mentioned in the stenograms, with all three of these sessions below. It's the same proposal all the time. Stick to what's the law, and the law is about one passport. If you have a new law of three passports, or five passports, suggest a new law, but don't keep us in lockdown.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6638	The replica has Mr. Banjac, Mr. Raščić, and then Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6639	Mr Spahić, save your emotions, because you will not be able to influence me to influence what you want, and that is what Mr Silajdžić and I know your intentions, and I do not dispute them, it is your right. Will you succeed, as far as I'm concerned, you won't, and look closely at me, no, you don't stand a chance. Second, to you, sir. So you're not gonna make it, you're not gonna make it. Second, who obstructed and I ask you? Six ministers sitting in a session, arguing and saying, "Let's postpone for then and then, no one says I won't be and then come three of whom are neither Srbin, thank Bog, I'm not glad either." I guess now he sees the gentleman who obstructed it. I have a feeling they deliberately obstruct the answer to this question, because they know, they're capable people, they're all masters, doctors of science, and I don't know what they're not. They know I can't go against the Madrid Declaration and I can't go against the Constitution and I can't say it, and I want to say it. The gentlemen morati have to plead why they violate the BiH Constitution, if they refuse my amendments, they must. I'm telling you, entities betray passports, it stands in Article 1, point 7, and for those who are not betrayed by entities, betraying BiH, it's quite clear. Therefore, I want a clear and precise attitude. That law, which came as a unique attitude, we will see whether it came under pressure or with consciousness. He's about to show the amendment. That had to be known, if anyone really in BiH is developing democracy or doing anarchy, we need to know that. If they refuse unanimously, it's good for them to know that. I'm ready for that, and it's democracy. If they accept, then something wasn't with that forward in the procedure okay, it's Bog's wrong and that fat thing's wrong, and then I want it to be known to this Parliament, Ibro, and don't blame me for what I'm looking for. Well done, look how we understand each other. So let it be known once and for all whether it is so, and, gentlemen, when we've waited this long, what bothers us is that 26 of our gentlemen fly to BiH and say where they were and say what they think about the amendments. Maybe they made something useful in Sydney for BiH, who knows. You should never go ahead with a conviction. Therefore, why do you want to, I don't understand, if you are a Democrats, you don't allow us to plead in the order that the Rules of Procedure foresees it, because the law is the last to be declared. The law is last-declared and pleaded, I don't mind, but respect the order to conclude the law, with the agenda point before the vote, before, gentlemen, remember that. If you try pressure, you'll only achieve that we'll have to get out of this session while you do it. I, for one, want to get out. Everyone will decide for themselves, but I'm telling you, don't do it. We can get to it. Why the 134 Social Democratic Party, which says it has proposed the same thing before, so now it won't do the same. Let's go out here a little bit and say they didn't want to do the same thing, which they meant it before. If they mean it before, so be it, there's no Bog for me, they're gone, this is how they come to visit. So, if they're serious, where are they now? If they're serious, they're not gonna do what they wanted to do before. Therefore, I see no reason for them to behave differently now, and as before, they meant seriously. When was the prank, now or before? If it was before, here, that I accept the criticism, which they say they meant seriously, and what I, like, didn't want, and what they don't mean to embarrass me now. Don't say that, gentlemen, we know so much, and I urge you to properly bring this discussion into the law, to come up with a solution like that, and the best solution would be, come on, people, to respect ourselves. Whoever wills without an entity's inscription, let him take, whoever will, with a sign, take, and what is wrong with it. What are you defending us for? Why are you, gentlemen of Bošnjak, here, to all of you, MPs of Bosniak nationality, I address myself as colleagues. Why do you keep defending me like a Srbin and I'm defending you with nothing? Here, I forbid you to take a passport to the Federation of BiH. Why do we keep fighting about something like you're protecting BiH more from me, where it says it's true. Where it says it's true that I love BiH less than you do. What right are you taking from me? What right do you have to take that right from me? I'm telling you, RS is part of BiH and it will stay.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6640	Raščić, Perkanović, Spahić, Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6641	I am sorry, gentlemen chairman, for the honourable fellow MPs, and you, members of the Council of Ministers who still have the patience to sit with us here, which is how this law is being debated, this bill of law and the amendments made to this bill. It is truly strange that people here do not know that the bill is acting on amendments, and it is not allowed to enter the procedure and speak to MPs, now from another part of the entity, that they are against the interests of the Serb people. It is not true, nor am I defending anyone, I understand that some people from the Bosniak people are defending the Serb people to take what they want. Let them take whatever they want and whatever they can, I really don't mind. I don't mind for sure, and I don't mind the speeches and the history of the Bosnian-Poninian canton, which is the only and first open canton in BiH and, please, so on that basis, when we open a debate on the return events. As far as the interests of the people in BiH are concerned, I think it is our interest to have a passport that we can go out with dignity. That's what I think, if we're in the majority, I'd be glad to have a deal here. No one imposes that on me, except those who make a restrictions on those southern peoples, past Slovenia who can go through Europe with a personal document, who does not believe, to check. We can't even take a passport. Therefore, I personally believe that the name of the entity is not appropriate, neither the Federation of BiH nor the RS. I believe that the entities are a historical category and that this is a matter of the political will of the people in BiH and of the citizens how it will be arranged. I personally think, according to the information I have, that the name RS is offensive to the Bosniak people. Unfortunately, it will be declared by the High Representative and allegedly there are already such petitions, it is not my statement of will, because I live in the Federation of BiH, but I believe that the Federation of BiH should also be an entity that needs to grow into a BiH state, according to some arrangement that 135 will be politically arranged, with the consent of the constituent peoples. There's no need for us to be angry about it. The only question is whether we are the ones who are going to end this thing or whether it's going to be some generations, some other MPs or some other high representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6642	I warn you, unfortunately, we don't have a quorum, but we will bring this discussion to an end, as it is. Mrs. Perkanović, then Mr. Spahić, we will listen to our colleagues. What's reported, we'll do this the way it is. I'm hoping for this agenda point that we've all cracked our rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6643	My proposal was before the voting procedure and instead of voting, it was allowed for individual colleagues to discuss and the voting procedure was suspended, which is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, under number one. Number two. Here earlier, Mr. Raščić said a very, very painful thing, that Mr. Bošnjak is insulting the RS, and possibly the Serbian people. So what are we looking for in BiH, what kind of laws do we want? Do you want laws that are against the RS and against the Serb people? It's not the future, it's not the community, it's the past, gentlemen. I ask the High Representative to reconsider the will and political definition of individual MPs in this assembly. Are we like that, with those, for the future we want, or are we for the past that we need to urgently forget and never do it again. And today's imputation to this law goes in that direction, towards the destruction of the will of some. As long as we do not recognize each other and accept who we are inside BiH, we will have no happiness, no happy future, no economic prosperity. We have to forget everything that's ugly and we have to move on, go into the future, and the future isn't being imposed, in insulting because someone exists. Tomorrow will be an insult because someone exists in BiH, it needs to be removed from BiH, because it offends certain people. Well, please, it's really not right, for the sake of a better future and for the sake of moving forward BiH. If we really want BiH well and the future of BiH, BiH is recognised but it should survive. She won't survive like this. We need to learn agreement, negotiation and compromise. So take care of your feelings and needs and others around you, as well as yourself. Accordingly, I ask you not to bother us anymore, but to vote on my proposal or to use this time in the future to agree on this law that needs to be quality, not broken over the knee, so it doesn't matter what happens tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6644	Since we have no quorum, we can vote, unfortunately, we cannot, but I ask you to bring in, after all, we have brought to an end, as far as time goes, this session of ours, Mrs Spahić, Neimarlija and Raščić, and I am finishing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6645	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say one sentence. Mr. Banjac, I am pleased that you have moved on to a principle of conversation that respects some way, if nothing, more positive opportunities for dialogue between people who are in one and the same place as this Parliament. But, you know, this proposal was offered by Mr. 136 Tuševljak, as chairman, and Mr. Gligorić with his associates, as Minister of Communications and Civil Affairs. On the basis of the same documents that you said were arguments, which destroy constitutional provisions and which make it impossible to act. You said if your amendment was rejected, that you would launch responsibility, in accordance with the Constitution, the Ministry and the Minister. I have to. That's what you said. So you agree with me. If Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Tuševljak, as chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, have suggested to us that we have been discussing the Constitution and past the law for several weeks and beyond all that you claim to be, and you are the chairman of the College, one of the members of the College, you are thereby bringing this debate back to start with that question that I asked you earlier. Do you, in fact, want to vote for the BiH Council of Ministers' mistrust? Since I have seen you try now to accept these amendments and then, if they accept, they are by the Constitution, if they refuse, then all of this is terrible for BiH. I think that such exclusion will not take you anywhere, simply because in a document such as the Brussels Declaration, such as the Madrid Conference, etc., you seek arguments for something that does not stand. And including this debate, your participation today in this discussion, I'm sorry that there was the same syndrome in the House of Representatives, the same disease, the same infection as the lack of quorum. It's time to hold up the debate for the rest of the day. argument, as you would say, confront and bring in one procedure that is correct. Since there are no conditions for deciding, and my proposal exclusively applies to decision-making, and it does not concern at all any debate for debate, I ask you, as a College, to do as is possible, to terminate the work now and to continue with a deadline that will be maximumly acceptable to the dignity of your place that you chair this home. Secondly, I ask you to return to the Programme of Work of this Parliament and I ask you to return to the extraordinary session of both Houses of Parliament, dedicated to economic and social policy, it is not a problem for you and I ask you to take matters into your own hands. Please commit to that. As for calling people on a national basis. I remind you once again. This can't be a quasi people's home. This is the home of political party representatives, to protect the integrity of political parties, the integrity of individual personalities, and do not bring into an awkward position, with your statements, in this case Minister Gligorić, it is very embarrassing. I'm surprised, because I don't know what to think about then. If this is the man who passes the Constitution, we must allow him to consider, after tonight's statement, along with Mr. Tuševljak and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the resignation of the correct one, because it is not right, if he has sworn on this constitution, to do certain things beyond the Constitution. If he proposed a law past the Constitution, I'm sure he didn't, it's my belief and I defend it, I'm sure you have the right to suggest whatever you want in the amendments, but we have to make a statement about it, and if you call the Resisting Ministry of Civil Affairs, I ask them to think, I suggest Mr Gligorić to consider his work if he really understood the good message that this is all past the Constitution, everything they suggested. I think that's very correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6646	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members, I will indeed try to be brief and esteeming the circumstances in which we continue with this work, so I am aware that this discussion of me and objectively determined to be truly one address, not only officially, or, not so officially, as I do not know, in some sense 137 that I have always considered important to work in this House. I am surprised, first of all, by the statement of my colleague Banjac, which was more of a question than a matter, i.e. a mixture of findings and questions, why do you, Bošnjak, deny the right to Srbin, and we do not do this to you. Okay, well, I mean to you, like Srbin. I don't know how one of the Bošnjak denied you the right, as a Srbin, I mean, I don't know, but that claim that you, as a Srbin, have been denied the right, you've argued something that is truly unacceptable to me, and I expect that you will no longer practice it. This is the practice that I have reacted to in several times in the SDP and colleagues of Tokić's statements, you will remember, however, and you have been performing in this manner for a long time to create a structure, so before we have even come to a vote, you will accuse, in this case even Bošnjak, which is totally unacceptable for this home, because we are not Bošnjak here but representatives of political parties, etc., for voting, that is, for the result of the vote that has not yet happened, fellow Banjac. We haven't even spoken out yet. How do you know I won't vote for your amendments and for your right, say, that every citizen chooses what kind of passport he wants? How do you know that? I thought that practice broke down in these areas. This isn't the first time you've had it. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable. Don't make the construction in advance, don't accuse me of a vote I haven't come to yet. Secondly, when you called, in fact, to transfer the Bošnjak to deny vi, as a Srbin, the right to do so today, I have silenced the debate over Silajdzic's resignation, since it is not, I cannot now, it is not correct to set myself up, but I expected to be honest, indeed, that at last one of the MPs, I am reluctant to resort to this characterisation, as Srbin, because you yourself are performing and reacting to Silajdzic's statement, reacts to a statement by my counterpart Deretić. I very much respect Deretic's views, although I don't generally accept them or share them, but my colleague Deretić today said a devastating, terrible thing, which I was really expecting, which was really more difficult than that of Silajdžićev, but that I am not bringing them into a relationship now because Silajdžić was not there. counterpart Deretić said he believes 98% of RS citizens want a passport on which BiH stands and the RS is written with cursiveness. Of course, counterpart Deretić has the right to think 110% that he will behave one way or another, but as an MP, it is the turn in one of these parliaments, that his opinion is based on the concrete empirical empowerment of this insight and it is the order to speak here on behalf of his party, that he may represent the party. How many percent of the parties are there, so many can speak, which makes sense, is it, Comrade Banjac? If the party representatives, which I am reluctant to determine or mark as Serbian, gave counterpart Deretić the right, because they did not react obviously, gave him the right to speak on behalf of them. OK, I accept that, but I expected someone to react, because in this House you have three MPs who have not authorized fellow Deretić to speak on their behalf, those three MPs represent something close to 25%, a colleague of Banjac, do you agree, citizens of RS. And, now, counterpart Deretić said 98%, he is a representative of the Radical Party of RS. He did not express his hatred for Bošnjak and Hrvat, as I do not have to ask you either that they are not Bošnjak or that they may be individuals, but, generally speaking, most of the Bošnjak in RS or RS who cannot return there, the majority of the Hrvat, did not authorise their counterpart Deretić to speak for them. I think you can agree with me. He, therefore, did not express his hatred, he simply ignored that vast majority of Bošnjak as if they were gone and I express my disappointment with your statement, counterpart Banjac, because you accused me of something that I have not yet done and, on the other hand, that you have not responded to a statement by fellow Deretić, simply ignoring all that over 98%. Thank you very much. 138
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6647	Thank you very much. The correction is made by Mr. Banjac, so Mr. Deretić and Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6648	Dear fellow Neimarlija, I absolutely think you didn't understand me in one part and I just want to tell you, I said you didn't allow me, as an MP of Serbian nationality, to create a passport in accordance with the international resolutions and the Constitution of BiH, and that's what I mean now, and I apologize for not correcting my colleague Deretić, not 98%, but 100% of the Srbin from the RS represented here to the MPs and seven parties want passports as I have suggested. That's what you can see, and of course I appreciate when you look at it as a percentage of the population of the RS, then it could be about 75% somewhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6649	I had no intention of reacting, but when I said percentage, I didn't say it for no reason. Right, the Radical Party of the RS did a survey of thousands of samples, so not targeted but on the street, so there were some people and Bosniak nationality or Muslim, however you wish, I didn't say anything with an evil intention. It doesn't matter to me, I always say Muslim nationality, for the reason that through the means of informing great Muslim credentials I heard them always mention the Muslim people. I haven't heard any of them, which I've been listening to, mentioning the Bošnjak, but please, I don't care. I didn't say anything, let me, please, it's your right to react. I just want to say, colleague Neimarlija, that percentage was from that poll, and I, by the way, can have a certain opinion in private and I am deeply convinced that I am not wrong at the percentage I said, that's one thing. However, the other thing I wanted to say was, about Mr. Raščić's discussion. I'd go out at the moment, but it's not my way of fighting, not just verbal, intellectual, and I wanted to, I stayed here to answer Mr. Raščić, I expected that someone from the international community would, please listen to me there, I beg you to listen to the distinguished gentleman who follows this session, regardless of what we don't have a quorum. I expected him to note, however, what Mr. Raščić said about the RS, that he was implicit against the RS, that is, against the name RS and therefore against the Dayton Agreement. Unfortunately, the Dayton Agreement is the RS, as one of the two equal entities, recognised and we will not allow any change, so you know how the Dayton Agreement was adopted, however, the moment the Dayton Agreement was amended, I was first against it, so I as a citizen, to stay in BiH. I was one of those 100% who voted to join Serbia in '91, in the 11th month or to separate ourselves from making an independent Serbian state. However, the Dayton Agreement has been signed. I am, indeed, in front of my party, one of those who signed those memos that we will implement the Dayton Agreement and I really mean it here. Every discussion of me, no matter how you realized it was always honest, until that moment until that Dayton Agreement made sense. The moment the RS is threatened, I will be the first, if I am an MP in the next session, regardless of which one I will be against, and I will ask that the Serb people in RS plebiscitely declare whether the RS will remain in BiH, if the Dayton Agreement is violated.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6650	Mr. Raščić, then we finish the session, which is what it is. We don't have a quorum, we won't decide, but we'll listen.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6651	Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, if it makes sense and the mood to fight in democratic ways and arguments for the improvement of this country, and you who are in the Council of Ministers still have the patience to listen to our ideas, I want to tell you a few things, and I will look primarily at Mrs Pekranović and Mr Deretić's statement, because of the wrong allegations. I did not say anything ugly or against the Serbian people, nor did I hear any of the other people say that in this assembly. That we have different political options and different visions and it's a normal thing and I think it's familiar. I didn't say anything against what you have imputed me to speak, against what the Serbian people have done. I am talking about what is not acceptable to the Bosniak people. What you call it is your business and how you understand the dignitaries of the Islamic community as they call members of their faith, I leave it to your personality and the needs of your party. What's the fact is, I'm not talking against an entity. I believe that the time has come or that the time has come for the entities to exhale and that they are a historical category. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know. As much as you want to understand me and I don't know that. I also said the Federation of BiH and so on. A RS that's not a republic, so by name, please. I'd like you to listen to me and I'm listening. There's no need to run, and all the political issues we've raised on the technical issue, the question of passports, the question of a document that should allow us a comfortable exit from our country. However, we can return to our country with our ID card. In our country and in our country, we can walk with a ID card, but with a passport, unfortunately, our individual and collective, we can't walk on the countries that we think we need, so much and thank you. Thank you very much. We're done. You will be informed of this as soon as the first term is safe. The seat was suspended at 6:30. NOTE During the discussion of MP Spahić at 18.05h there was no quorum. 140
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6653	Gentlemen, esteemed representatives, honored guests, continue the work of the 25th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, were also invited representatives of the public communication funds. I warmly welcome you all and ask for discipline. The absence of the session was justified by representatives: Ivo Mijačević, Bogić Bogičević, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Suada Muminagić, Ana Havel, Branko Dokić, Mara Perkanović, Ljubomir Zovko, Raifa Alagić, Ibrahim Đedović, Mediha Filipović and Edhem Bičakčić. The seat has a quorum and can measure the decision. We continue to sit on the 3rd item of the agenda today, and this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. For today, we have also received a statement from the Council of Ministers on amendments submitted by Mr Mirko Banjac on the bill, which is why last time we broke up, for the third time, for the second time this session. I hope that you have received the necessary statement, and I, in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, ask the gentleman, if there is any need, to explain his position on the rejection of the proposed amendments, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6654	Mr. Chairman, working presidency, honourable MPs, fellow ministers, present guests, ladies and gentlemen. Given that you have received a notice from the Administrative Service on the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would like to say the following about it. The BiH Council of Ministers met on 26th to discuss the arrival of amendments by Mrs Havel and Mr Mirko Banjac at the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel Documents. 141 The amendments are legal, legitimately submitted and with full seriousness, the BiH Council of Ministers has come to the consideration. The result of the vote was that there was a consensus on Mrs Havel's amendment, because it was technical nature of the matter and that in the notice that you received from the Administrative Service was not said, which is a certain failure. We also discussed Mr Banjac's amendments, and since it was not possible to reach consensus, because it was essential things in which it was discussed, so to speak, ranging from legal to political issues and because of disagreement, in accordance with the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, where it is decided, you know, by consensus, there was no consensus. So this notice should state that the amendments were not rejected, but that the consensus was not reached, although such a claim came out in public, in the sense that amendments were rejected. I only refer to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH which clearly defines how it is decided by the Council of Ministers of BiH. This means that, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you, too, today, declare yourselves on Mr Banjac's amendments and on the amendment and addition of the Law on Travel Documents. At the same time, I would really ask, because from a number of different circumstances in which we have been, we have come to a situation that there have been a lot of debates, that, in my opinion, and constructive proposals, at the same time, there has been a very active relationship of MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the basis of such proposals. I feel free to suggest that MPs, perhaps, accept it as a suggestion, and not exhaust themselves too much on this agenda point. We've talked about this for hours, and I would suggest you join, practically, the act of voting, in the way I suggested. So, what I was saying, it is in line with Mr. Chairman and is the official position of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6655	Thank you very much. We got that, too. The debate on this bill is over. The only thing left for us now is to ask the applicant for the amendment, whether he remains with his amendments, or whether this House will plead with them. Please, Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6656	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, although we waited long, I think, needlessly for much, could have been said before, but now it's getting much clearer, even though it's been known before. Questions and dilemmas remain, is the motion really unanimous, as spoken in public, if opinions are now shared, but what is there. As far as this is a proposal and whose proposal is again, there is no answer, but I am in principle staying with the BiH Constitution, international declarations on BiH, and I particularly mention madridski, Bonska, New njujorški and not to list any further. I'm staying with the amendment. I expect that, correctly, in accordance with your oath given to this house, you will also declare yourself to the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6657	Thank you very much. So, the future promoter stays with his amendments. I'm putting the amendments to the vote now. Of the four amendments proposed by Mr Mirko Banjac, all four are essentially linked, I'm sorry, here are the corrections, five 142 amendments. All four are dependent on each other. So we're going to vote. Therefore, we will plead in the package on all five amendments. In fact, you agreed to the amendment. Let's go to the vote. So, I ask all of you who's for Mr. Mirko Banjac's amendments? Who's for, all five in the package, who's for the amendments? I'm asking everyone. Who's against Mr. Mirko Banjac's amendment? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's for the amendments? Who's in? From RS, who's in? Of the 25 MPs present – 9 voted in favour – the vote was 11. From the Federation of BiH – it voted 1 – 8 MPs voted in favour of the RS. Therefore, these amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6658	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6659	Here you go, Mr. Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6660	The amendments go to alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6661	Okay. Since he did not get the entity, therefore, the required majority, the amendments are going to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6662	Another business intervention. In order to get along, they need to get most of those present. The vote was 9 against 11. Therefore, the majority was against and there are no conditions for alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6663	Okay. So, we don't have the conditions for consent. Let's get on with the work. We move to the next item of the agenda, I'm sorry, we must declare the integrated text of the proposed law. I ask everyone, who is for the integrated text of the proposed law, including the amendments of Mrs. Ana Havel that have been accepted? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? From the Federation of BiH, I ask who is in favour of the integrated text of the law? 143 from RS, who's in? Of the 25 present – 16 voted in favour – 8. According to entities, the Federation of BiH – 13 voted in favour, from RS - 3 in favour. This law has not received the necessary majority of entities. He's going on a date. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6664	Although I would have, ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks, namely, technical matters, that all the time Minister Gligorić explained to us that we received a letter from the Administrative Service, and we only got it when he finished his speech. It is not your fault, obviously someone else's, to the formulation in that letter that there are ministers from the order of the Serbian people, which I am not quite sure is the way of establishing the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is a very important observation, because, you know, the formulation that the ministers of the Serb people were against, or for the amendments, or something like that, is in my opinion the unconstitutional text of the letter of the Administrative Service and introduces us into the division of the national line in the Council of Ministers of BiH, at the very moment when, regardless of all the difficulties, we thought it was a unique body, which is chosen, however, based on nationality, etc., but it seems to me that formula simply does not stand. But I only came out with one proposal, and the proposal is next.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6665	Please listen to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6666	I propose that the chairman of this House, after any discussions, declare a break at this session, take immediate agreement with the conclusion that it is necessary to agree on this law and to continue the session, pending the harmonisation of the College, which is provided for by the Rules of Procedure, to adopt the position of the College on the existence of an opportunity for a harmonised proposal, and finally make a statement on this law. This is based on the fact that, despite the fact that the College has a deadline for a statement, it is very precise, but nowhere does it say that it cannot be done immediately at this session. That is, therefore, my concrete proposal to the chairman of the House, or College of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6667	Mr. Deretić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6668	I would point out here, and referring to Mr. Kadić's discussion, next. First of all, in the media, this issue has really been very speculative. Even representatives from the international community called four RS political parties, whose MPs here are the ones who bear the obstruction of the adoption of the amendment law and the amendments to the Law on Travel Documents. I simply must say here that these are the most common speculations, from the kitchen where it comes from, for the simple reason that all 144 MPs, therefore, from eight political parties sitting here in the order of the Serbian people, were against the proposal, such a law and today it has proved that, on the one hand, and on the other hand, here, you see, and in the Council of Ministers, the MPs of the order of the Serbian people were identically opposed to the adoption of such a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents. I do not consider, as the previous speaker here says, that, by apostrophe of MPs, or ministers of certain constituent peoples, to be disrupting some unity, for the simple reason that in Article 5. The BiH Constitution, item 4, under b, literally states that more than two-thirds of all ministers cannot be appointed to the Council of Ministers from the Federation of BiH. The chairman appoints deputy ministers, who are not from the same constituent people. So here you're just not saying which people, in fact, you know exactly which is... Therefore, I think that, in this procedural sense, no error has been made, and I would just like to say in the end that I am against saying here today, that is, my proposal is contrary to my colleague Kadić's proposal that we plead today, after the reconciliation has been carried out, again on this agenda point, because beyond that, there should also be some consultations in the bases. And I objectively, at least in front of my own party that I represent here, I'm not able to do today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6669	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić answered, so Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6670	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, and because of the fact that, despite the high interest of the public and citizens to be adopted, it has been in the process for weeks, I am asking for a break and the College to complete the process of reconciliation and to put an end to this point of the agenda in the way that the parliamentary majority and parties want it. Of course, I would not like to comment on the bases of certain MPs, their willingness to consult that base, if they had consulted that base, they would have realised that they should not have acted like this, nor the members of the Council of Ministers, nor the MPs, on this law, in so far's vast continuations of the session. Since this is the second request for a break, I ask you to stop the debate and that the College approach the plea, reconciliation and that we do not allow the effects of the protein agreements of obstruction to be extended to another episode, in a situation of hopeless functioning of central institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6671	We'll take a break. Business intervention has Mr. Banjac. You'll get a break, just to round up this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6672	Dear gentlemen, of course none of you wanted to read article 65. The Rules of Procedure and I know why you didn't want to, and now I'm going to go public with that. And you know why you didn't want to? You're reading, but you don't see well. Sir, there's a new prank here, because of the number of MPs present, and you're not gonna make it, no way. I'm telling you this openly. You're making fun of me. Don't do this, and I'm asking you not to. Why am I using the word prank? Because you all know how to read article 65 and you don't want to read it, and that article says the following. If most votes do not contain one-third of the votes from the territory of each entity or if it turns out that the quorum is missing, the chairman may set a break of up to 60 minutes, during which a solution will be sought. With whom, gentlemen? With the ones who voted. So now, on this break, it is debated with representatives of political parties, followed by a second paragraph, and, please, I have fully consciously used the word “deception”, so you know that I have consciously done so. Second, Article 2, paragraph 2, in the case of a lack of majority, if the issue is not resolved after the break, the chair shall convene the Kolegijum within the next three days, in order to achieve agreement. Here you go, gentlemen, respect the Rules of Procedure, the other one won't be able to.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6673	Mr. Tokić has, and then Mr. Spahić and Čaršimamović. Tokić now has an intervention at his hearing. You didn't tell me that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6674	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I address you, the chairman, you must not allow reckless insults to MPs who, from sitting in session, are Mr Banjac, the circus that makes this assembly and the legitimate request for a break declares a prank, it is an insult to MPs. The SDP wants a break and you have to have the same archaic. Please take a break right away. Do not let the gentleman, who has so far in public, with the greatest hypocrite, disabling the work of this assembly and which has led to the warming up of the nerves of a huge number of BiH citizens, declare here the legitimate demand of a party for a break by a certain prank. Please, I insist on a break right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6675	You'll get a break, Mr. Tokić, but let's round this up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6676	There's nothing to round up. Otherwise, whenever there's a break, we'll ask for an argument. When Mr. Banjac asks for a break, take a break at the same time. You must not succumb to the dictatorships of Mr. Banjac and the past-recognizable dark dictatorships, obstructions and insults of this high house. I insist on taking a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6677	Please, Mr Spahić, so Mr. Čaršimamović, they're all looking for a break. 146
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6678	It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6679	You may, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the BiH Council and representatives of the international community, allow me to read the same article. The 65th to which Mr. Banjac called himself and to say that all in his hands lies one man at the moment. No breaks, no tensions, the most normal in the Rules of Procedure we've ever made. I can't understand just one sentence at all, why people don't read correctly what they've adopted, and the text is, only by other intonation, calmly, slowly. A 65th member to whom Mr. Banjac is called. Number 1 or Section 1, if most of the votes do not contain one-third of the votes from the territory of each entity and if a quorum is found to be missing, the chairman, I underline the President's word, in this case it is Mr Skopljak, it may set a break of up to 60 minutes, during which a solution will be sought. In the Rules of Procedure, point 1 of point 2 of point 3 of point 4 and point 5 of the Rules of Procedure is not without prejudice. I urge Mr. Skopje to cut off this situation in a very principled way. He is today, as Mr. Banjac used to be offended when I say, the speaker of this home, therefore, the chairman, who should propose a 60-minute break to us and schedule a meeting, since now it is 4 minutes, by my hour, up to 12, in 4 minutes to 1 to continue the plea and to stop convincing each other who is more important and who is less. It's the only thing we can normally react to. That's what I suggested three times, that the president take the Rules of Procedure and the responsibility of the speaker. Speaker has a decisive word today, not our fights.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6680	Okay, I'm taking a 60-minute break. Ladies and gentlemen, we've got a quorum, we're continuing the session. [[PAUZA]] I'll Spahić, please, to continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 65, paragraph 1, a period of one hour has been requested. No solution was found on that break. Therefore, we are left with the same Article 65, paragraph 2, to call together the College session within three days and to offer a final solution. I pledge to convene this meeting consensually as soon as possible. So we've absorbed this point. Mr. Halid... 147
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6681	Dear colleagues and colleagues, indeed, according to the Rules of Procedure, are regulated in such a way that unless a solution is found within 60 minutes, they call a session of the Colleges to be agreed upon within three days. After that, the issue is returning to the House of Representatives session. We are witnessing how much time has been spent, I would say, unnecessarily on issues that could have been resolved far faster and in a way that Parliament has long ended its role. Since this is the case, as a member of the College, I propose the chair to schedule a session of the College during this session, and to express my willingness to participate in the work of the College during this session, but also to hold a session that will take place during this session, for the reason that I believe that there are all the conditions, all the assumptions, and also the reasons for this session to be held today. Thank you. I said that this session will be held by consensus and within a certain period of time according to the Rules of Procedure. So I think it's clear -- we're not opening a debate on this point. These are my rights to serve, Mr. Tokić. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6683	One member of the College has the opposite opinion, but it's not a consensus... – (several controversy in place). [[from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6684	Please, unless we reach a consensus – I am willing to hold, whenever we agree, that session. If we don't do that, these are important issues. I believe that I have the right and that it is democratic, and that human in BiH is as we have done so far, to be a consensus. Theymorati have to. Look, if this is what they want democratically, I say it here openly, it's not someone willing to use it, then I'll make the decision and call it in time. [[whispers]] We're not just opening a debate, Mr. Kadić, we're not really opening it. Please, if we open the debate, we've missed this session again, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6685	We weren't mined. [[speaks from the site]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6686	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, I think we've finally started working on the Rules of Procedure. It's been a 60-minute break. We've got a statement. After that, the chairman, or College, meets within three days, and if you meet in five minutes, it is within three days. I now wish to tell you, Mr. Chairman, very directly. One member of the College feels that there is no need for further delay because we have spoken everything about this law in several 148 sessions already. I suggest the next order of moves. First, to give a five-minute break and on the basis of one of the members of the College, see if you have consent consensually, to immediately convene a session of the College. If you fail to reach consensus, then I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that after you have finally taken over this session, you decide that the session of the College is immediately after you eventually fail to reach agreement. That would be, Mr. Skopljak, your best contribution to finally end the blockade of Parliament's work. Days and days, awaiting the Council of Ministers of BiH, pleading and using every opportunity not to finally come forward about this. You, therefore, if you do not have a consensus within three minutes, you can know that, take the opportunity to, when you have already taken the decision, call on the College immediately, it is my suggestion to you and I hope that you will take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6687	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić. Mr. Tokić,
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6688	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SDP Parliament Club has requested a break, and after this break and what we have heard from the College, I would like to say on behalf of the SDP next. I would ask the chairman not to rush anywhere, because we met today with the primary task of resolving the question of the Law on Travel Documents, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Immitments, so we don't have any more work to do in the next part. We have this information where this discussion will bring us back to the same topic. But what I want to express through one kind of satire is that we have a very clear picture. After a series of four interruptions and four extensions of this agenda, we have a picture of the College sitting in its seat. There are, therefore, three people, who now have the whole process of resolving this issue, accepting or rejecting the law and who explain to us that, sitting together here, after an hour of break, they do not have the consent to sit down and hold a meeting. It can only be called one dictionary. Obstruction.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6689	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6690	The obstruction is called, allow, please, the chairman, I have a word, if you, as three people who have taken responsibility in front of the voters, in front of us as MPs, of course, I did not vote for you, because I knew there would be such a picture, if you three now sit down and explain to us how you are sitting here and not ready to meet, but you will meet sometime in the course of three days.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6691	What does that have to do with your break? [[Speak from the scene]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6692	It matters, because we want to reveal what is clearly shown, that there is a hidden and open obstruction of the adoption of this law. Through four extensions, you, Mr. Chairman, if you are not ready to call on the College now, along with the College or part of the College, you are responsible for what is obstruction. And as for the continuation of the session, as for us from the SDP, the continuation of the session at which we will discuss BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, because, indeed, after this behaviour of the College, Mr Banjac, and possibly you, it is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6693	Indeed, you are constantly asking that someone adhere to the Rules of Procedure, and others are constantly breaking it, systematically breaking it, including such representatives. Therefore, it is incorrect indeed. Here you go, Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6694	I have no intention of answering Ambassador Tokić, because he doesn't deserve an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6695	Don't mention names, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6696	I have no intention, because it is excessive, but it is quite clear that Mr. Tokić's intention to, by breaking the Rules of Procedure, make precedents that suit him and I understand it, but I cannot, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, participate in this work, and what he is asking, it is his legitimate right, but it is also my legitimate right to protect myself through the Rules of Procedure which we have all brought together. Gentlemen, this is before the public another painting to decide on such an important issue, which is not in accordance with neither the Constitution nor the Constitution, yet again responsibly argues, neither with international declarations nor with the Dayton Peace Agreement, the coercion, the collapse of the Rules of Procedure and its provisions, and I have no intention to slow down anyone's story, but I intend to make arguments in favour of what I'm saying. And once again, I call upon all MPs, who have sworn to both Dejton and the Constitution, to respect these two documents, but in this way, I do not believe that there will be happy solutions, perhaps there will be some, but she will not be happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6697	We're not opening any debate, Mr. Tokić, because you asked for business interventions, which I had to give. The debate is over, I'm giving a ten minute break, and we'll make a decision behind that. With the help of Mr Špirić, who has been declared to be placed in our quorum, we have that quorum. [[PAUZA]] You got the stenogram Mr. Mirko Banjac asked for. I said 150 that point 3, so this point we absorbed. Those are my words I said here. Looking for a way out of the situation we had, unfortunately, with the discipline and indiscipline we had, others later reacted and discussed. On your proposal, we held a session of the Ad hoc College, which is the commission's report on achieving agreement. You know what the result is, what it should be, or you assume it. We didn't achieve consent. Therefore, you have a report on the commission in front of you. Is it, not yet? Please, you'll have it soon. Right, Branka? We ask the MPs to take their seats, not to question the quorum again. Here's the quorum, Mr. Špirić. I'm asking you to read a report that, here, you get on the table. We're continuing this session. The report from the session we held you have here in front of you right now. Unfortunately, we have no agreement on the proposed problem. That's why I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favour of discussing this report at today's session and will, of course, be who's against it. I'm not opening a debate, please. We need to be clear who's for the report you've got ahead of you, please. I'm asking everyone, who's for the report you've got?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6698	Please, of course, we have the College of the House of Representatives, we have the Chairman of the College. I, as a member of the College, don't understand that this point has been absorbed, because this point will be absorbed at the moment when a statement of MPs is made in the second round, that's when the point is absorbed. As we had all the conditions and reasons to hold a session of the College, we now have all the necessary preconditions and reasons, including this written report by the College, to carry out a statement of MPs in the second round. Please, therefore, we have the conditions to end this point to the end. That's one thing. Of course, the chairman runs this session and I suggest the chairman puts the law in the second round, because all the necessary conditions, as I said, and assumptions exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6699	An incorrect quote has Mr. Mirko Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6700	Gentlemen, the esteemed guests, make mistakes in a series, willfully or willfully, it is not hard to guess. I asked for a stenogram from this agenda point, from which it's quite clear, and in the end, it's also mentioned by the chairman, so I said, therefore, we've absorbed this point. Afterwards, Mr. Genjac, a member of the Kolegijum wanted to speak and speak afterwards. Back Skopljak, Tokić spoke and Skopljak said: "I said that this session will be held by consensus and within a certain period of time according to the Rules of Procedure." So I think it's clean. We're not opening a debate. These are my rights to serve, Mr. Tokić, we move to the next item of the agenda. 151 Gentlemen, whether you want it or not, this is a corpus delict and we have no chance of anyone here, in any way, challenging the stenogram. If you care about legal work, I won't answer for it at all and I don't think about it. The point that was completed was called the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents. The point we need now, and so far we are always, I repeat, and I ask for it to be delivered, is called the College Report – the Commission's effort to reach agreement on the proposal, so on. Therefore, gentlemen, this is the new agenda. You have a business right and an opportunity to put it on the agenda today. Everything else is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and my participation absolutely outside the Rules of Procedure will not be on these issues. So, I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to respect what you have said, and here there is a stenogram, to respect the Rules of Procedure and to see clearly now who wants to do this and continue this work, and who will not continue to work, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And I have no intention of replicating anyone anymore. This is clear, crystal clear and I ask that procedures and Rules of Procedure be respected. I'm looking, as a member of the College, otherwise I think my work will be disabled on purpose and I'm going to ask for responsibility for whoever makes it impossible for me to work on purpose.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6701	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić answered. Well, I don't know why he answered. Tokić, Pa Čaršimamović, and Spahić. I don't know why you called. Do you have an intervention or...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6702	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any reason to raise tension. We discuss this law for over a month and a half, and let me notice, over a year and a half. It narrows down the cycle of decision-making. There is no more room for manoeuvres and excellent fighters to declare the Council of Ministers and for business categories, they are put in a situation that we, on my request, have broken off this item of the agenda, on my request, which is in the stenogram, which has been left out of the break, after which we received a report on the effort to reach agreement. If someone in this high house, at this moment, after five session sessions under this law, insists that we do not enter into a plea procedure and conclude the procedure for declaring this law, no matter what procedure it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6703	I'm here looking for solutions, and apparently many... allow things.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6704	Chairman, allow me, it's not much. You're sitting here, you've got a report on an effort to achieve consent. This is the only law we have as a part of the agenda. We have five extensions and you're looking for a way to stay out of the law right now. As far as I'm concerned, the chairman, in front of the public, I insist that you complete this procedure for voting on the Law on Travel Documents and do not allow new gymnastics. We've been waiting here for hours. What are we invited to do? Don't invite us anymore, if you're going to make a thousand gymnastics. Shower in Sydney, 152 let's wait for the Tuševljak. Banjac remembered half a minute before the amendment was voted, let's wait for the amendment. Put this to a vote and it's the only way we can stop it. If you're going to try to discuss BiH's accession to the Ve now, don't, please. If you want to discuss the agenda point, about the laws imposed by the High Representative, then you are free to classify this law, because after all these obstructions, there is no other protection, if you do not act in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6705	I'm warning you of a Rules of Procedure that, unless there's any conditions for holding a session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6706	There are conditions, Chairman. You read the Rules of Procedure and stop playing that gymnastics old, new Rules of Procedure. We have a report on an effort to reach agreement. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6707	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I would not like to determine the stenogram whether the chairman of the SDP's Club of Representatives, the representative of the GDS of BiH or some fourth or fifth parties, has established order of business on this point or not. The order is, thanks to you, Mr. Skopljak, established in a correct way. I'm glad you gave a break that lasted a little more than an hour, past the Rules of Procedure, after which, we barely met, but what I'd like to draw attention to, in accordance with Article 55. You are required to give, the chairman gives the representative a word that speaks of a breach of the Rules of Procedure or of non-compliance with the established agenda, as soon as he requests. I asked for a word about the first sentence, the first point of Article 55, and the article 65, now let me quote those articles. First, I have three minutes to speak, it is known that I am very efficient and short and I want to hear Mrs. Rađević and the others. We exhausted Article 65 on the basis of point 1 because Mr. Skopljak, as chairman, as speaker, requested, took the right to exercise his right to conduct the Rules of Procedure and we had this break. In Part 2 of Article 65, the President shall, in the case of a dissatisfaction of the majority, etc., convene the College within the next three days in order to achieve agreement. Mr Kadić's proposal under Article 2 has been accepted that from the moment the first part of Article 65 is exhausted, the fact that from that second on, those three days will begin to run. Article 3 accepted because the information reached us, date 28.9., received, organisational unit 0102-02-190/0, I don't know what number this is. Report of an effort to reach agreement. Point 3. If the College succeeds in agreeing on this, the House shall be informed. The College informed us that it had failed to achieve consent, in writing, with the signature of 153 Mr Genjac, Mr Banjac and Mr Skopljak, in so doing they had legitimateized point 1, point 2, point 3, point 65. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. It reads, if the College fails to reach agreement, or if it achieves agreement, with a new solution, which was not the subject of the House vote, the decision will be made by the majority of the total number of MPs present and voting – provided that the votes against the vote do not contain two-thirds or more of the representatives elected from each entity. Only Article 5 creates the conditions for half of the council members, MPs to leave the session and thus create conditions for accessing Article 5, which means that they do not create a lack of quorum. Given that Article 4 precedes Article 5, I would urge MPs not to seek a new break and not to leave the session and to approach the decision-making process in accordance with Article 4 of this Section 65. They will appeal to Article 55, I have said, for three minutes, to approach, on the basis of your written request, sent to the MPs with your signatures, a statement under Article 4. As correct as it can be.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6708	The replica has Mr. Banjac. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6709	Mr. Tokić, I'm talking to you, because I don't have anything to say to Ibrino, there's no need. Ibro reads Miat's conclusions, that's what my late grandmother used to say, but let me tell you, here's a clear question. I ask that we plead today, but in accordance, gentlemen, with the Rules of Procedure. Don't fool around here that the point is finished, there's a stenogram. This is a new point. There's a business possibility we can put it on. Please state whether or not you want to place this point. There is no dispute and don't, please, replace the thesis that someone won't discuss it today. We will, here, please classify this point by legal procedure. And I beg you, Mr. Chairman, to spare us the exchange of thesis. There's a dispute here that's quite evident. We must, you must answer whether this is identical to your session management, this stenogram. I'm asking the chairman and I'm asking him. Is the stenogram that was delivered identical to your presentation? Please answer my question. That's what I want to hear and the situation is still quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6710	Please, Mr. Čaršimamović, Mrs. Desa Rađević and Mr. Kadić, please come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6711	Mr. Chairman, may I begin, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6713	I see that the debate has come to the heat, however, I would also like to help you and this home to complete this point which, as Mr. Tokić says, takes a fourth or fifth time. Namely, we've got a stenogram, unauthorized, not signed. I'm the one who interprets it. Mr. Banjac interpreted him. As I interpret it, the point is not finished, because, no matter what you say, if you went into word terminology, you absorbed, I don't know how far you'd come and to finish that part, but it's up to you, and since you continued to do the point after you said we're going to the next point, then I conclude that you haven't concluded the point, because after that sentence you continued the discussion and it's up to you to say that you're authorizing this text, to say whether the point is done, and since you've given us all three members of the College report, I believe that you've obtained the conditions that we, in accordance with Article 65, point 4. Rules of Procedure, let us approach the vote, or the realization of your report.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6714	Please, Mrs. Rađević, so Mr. Kadić. Well, the conditions we create aren't exactly...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6715	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the press and honored guests, I would like to begin with the replica of Mr Spahić, and then to say why, by the way, I have reported from before. Thank you for reading certain members of the Rules of Procedure, so, well, I didn't have to read in myself, when I listen to others read, maybe I get it better. That's why I'm 100% sure I've made it perfectly clear that these members of the Rules of Procedure don't say anything when they vote, what you read to me is who votes and how they vote. Therefore, at least there is a business gap that some situation is not described and prescribed, but then follows the following, and otherwise I have come forward to say so. This is the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which was held, I speak at random, without evil intentions, in at least 35 meetings. Which means we have at least 35 times received a printed call with printed agenda points. I am responsibly saying that in all and one of these calls, whenever there was an agreement on the agenda of the College on a document, each time it was written as a special item of the agenda, and never before, for two years of working this home, it wasn't to be so arbitrary, let me say a little vulgarly, sewn up to some point of the agenda. Every time there was a special agenda point. Today we want something special, and we all know what we want and why we want it, but, well, nobody's going to say it out loud here, so here's what I'm going to say. If it will not be put to vote by the MPs to expand the agenda for today, I, indeed, cannot endure this torture anymore, I will leave the session, even if it is a quorum, 22 that there is no quorum. Indeed, the only solution that is acceptable here is to put MPs to the vote on whether the agenda will be extended to this point and, as far as I have seen in the materials, there is much more for today to expand the agenda. Therefore, we will vote whether or not to extend the agenda. And why does it bother you that we're voting to expand the agenda, when 155 so will it be on the agenda, so what's it to you? Well, that's what nobody's gonna say now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6716	First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Genjac, who is replacing Skopljak, will Mr. Skopljak return? Is there any information?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6717	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6718	I'm sorry Mr. Skopljak's not here, so I'm afraid I won't get a word later. I would like to say the following, Mr. Banjac, I don't think you should overly insist on the moment that Mr. Skopljak said the agenda was completed, because at this same session, your incorrect claim, Mr. Skopljak also said in haste, there is a consensus on the vote on amendments. Once you, incorrectly citing the Rules of Procedure, led him to say something, too, that we had overcome, and then the man said, "I apologize, we're crossing, etc." I think it's a formal thing and I shouldn't insist on it. That's the first one. Secondly, I would welcome the determination of the chairman of Skopljak, who for the first time today for eight months of the presidency said: "If there is no consensus in the College, I will call him because I have the right to do so." I congratulate him on his courage to summon the College, even though I know he's been exposed to pressures so he doesn't summon himself today. The college made a decision. The decision is that no consent has been reached. In accordance with the President's decision that, which was not common, and because of the need to resolve this agenda, today they call on the College and declare whether or not there is no agreement, there is no agreement in this case. I believe that in this case, in condescendingly, there is no need to put this as a special point of the agenda, because, Mr. Banjac and Mrs. Rađević, it is true that we have always said so so far, that is correct, but it does not say anywhere. Please, it doesn't say anywhere that we need a special agenda item on an effort to reach agreement. I'm sorry there's no Mr. Skopljak. Mr. Genjac, who you are replacing, I believe that, in accordance with the decision to call today, the College, continue in that direction, and that, too, immediately on this point, we will declare the report and then, in the second round, in the final vote. I believe that this is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure and depends on what the chairman, who, unfortunately, is not presently going to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6719	Thank you. Please, given that at this point in time, I am replacing the chairman, as the first vice-president and taking over this part of the responsibility, I am left with respect to the Rules of Procedure and I am asking you to listen carefully to what position we are in and what arises. It is true that we had a special point report on the effort to reach agreement whenever it was at the next session. We had one case if it was in the same session, it can be checked in 156 minutes. However, the permanent rules of procedure adopted by us and considered to be one of the better results of this House of Representatives, paragraph 5 of Article 65 states that in the event of a lack of quorum, if, after a break, the chairman replicates, or the vote shows that there is still a lack of quorum, the issue discussed will be postponed for the second session. There are two conclusions coming out of this. One thing is, it implies that the same session solves the issue, within the point at which the breaks were given, and in which the coordination of the College was carried out, unless there is no quorum and that is also another implications, another consequence that arises from this, i.e. If there is no quorum, it goes to the next session. Since that's the case, please, okay, I'd like to ask at this point to establish a quorum, see if we can access the law's statement. Just to determine the quorum. Is there a quorum? Please, at this point there is no quorum in the hall, we will take a five-minute break to determine if there is a possibility of providing the quorum and continuing to work towards the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. ...an ambassador to establish a quorum. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6720	Alagić Raifa Bičakčić Edhem – not here Raščić Baković – there is Čaršimamović Tarik – there is Kulović Hamdija – not Banjac Mediha – absent Halid Genjac – there is Jahić Adnan – absent Kadić Rasim – there is Dokić Mirko – there is Mirković Dragan – there is no Pamuk Mustafa – there is No Karić Munira – there is Spahić Nikola – there is Bogić Ivica – there is no Deretić Zlatko – absent BošnjakMilenka Ivo Anita absent Pašalić Suada Perkanović Mara Rađević Ivo – there is Desanka Sejfudin – there is not there is Špirić Smail – there is there is no Pažan Muvtan Žujana Jovanović there is no Branislav – there is no Rakić Mirić – there is no Vito Mukjana – there is no Mikjana – there is no Mik. Ladies and gentlemen, according to a nickname, which I hope you have no objections, 20 MPs are present. So we don't have a quorum this time either, so just, in my opinion, hope that this home will actually do this part of the job once. Thank you. Please, no problem, we'll let you know if you're looking for this. Whoever wants to hear that information can get it. From those present, from the Federation of BiH -13, from RS - 7 MPs. Thank you very much. The seat was suspended at 4:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6722	Representatives, honored guests, continue the work of the 25th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives. In addition to the MPs, our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, were also invited representatives of the public communication funds. I warmly welcome and wish for successful work. There are 22 MPs present at this session. So we have a quorum and we can measure the decision. The absence of the session was justified by representatives: Ivo Mijačević for health reasons, Mediha Filipović, Mara Perkanović, Adnan Jahić, Ivo Lozančić and Tarik Čaršimamović for the official trip. The seat has a quorum, like I said, and it can measure itself. Today we will continue with the fourth item of the already adopted agenda. Ad. 4. The information on the laws adopted by the High Representative on a provisional basis, however, at the session of the College, which we held on 4 October, agreed that the agenda of this session should be extended by considering three agreements for which there are reasons for early adoption. And as you know, in the last part of the session, we put the Working Group's report on the work on preparing the BiH Election Law. Therefore, today's agenda, I hope so, and the final part of the 25th session, would be as follows. Please let me finish, under 1. Information on the laws adopted by the High Representative on a provisional basis; 2. Innovated list of conditions for BiH's entry into VE 3. Report by the Working Party on the work to prepare BiH Election Law 4. I. The Faculty Protocol with the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, aimed at abolishing the death penalty; 5. Agreement on a development loan with the education sector between BiH and the International Association for World Bank Development; 6. Agreement on a loan for development – pilot of the project, rapid employment of the workforce in new jobs between BiH and the International Development Association and 7. Answers to MPs' questions and questions I hope that in the meantime you have already received this agenda at the table ahead of you and I believe that this is what the College unanimously adopted and that we will accept. Mrs. Rađević, what do you want? Please don't let us enter the agenda first. I'm asking you, who's for this addition to the agenda we've just read about that I hope you have. 159 Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? The result of the vote, of the 28 present in the meantime – 24 voted in favour – 1 voted against. So this agenda was adopted, or the additions I suggested here. We're moving to the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6723	Please, can I have a word, it's about the 25th session, and it's not about today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6724	Here you go, Mrs. Rađević. What point are you gonna put that under? Please, we have three minutes to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6725	Ladies and gentlemen, after the 25th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Petrić declared that he had imposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents in BiH. The team, I want to ask the public of BiH and OHR the question, with the question that in BiH, and I ask you and the public, there are at least 500,000 citizens who would like to have more variations of the travel document, including such a variant, where there are indications that BiH is composed of entities. Since it's imposed by law imposed, deleted as a possibility, I'm asking a question. What about the human rights of those, at least 500,000 people, or not all human rights are equally important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6726	We discussed this issue at the College and we concluded that we could, it's a post-festum, that's an act that's imposed and thus, as it stands. So we're going to the next item on the agenda and that's Ad. 4. Information on the laws passed by the High Representative on a provisional basis Does the rapporteur have any information on this point? Matters of all that you've got. If anyone has anything to say on this agenda, please report. Does anyone have a discussion? Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6727	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since these laws have been in operation for a year and more, I suggest and suggest that we vote on them today, or adopt them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6728	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6729	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, come on, silence, since this vast majority of the laws, imposed by the High Representative, are already in force in our lives, I propose, since this assembly is very often mentioned by that people of BiH, that the Council of Ministers return all the laws imposed by the High Representative to the regular assembly procedure, to the beginning and to return them to the masses in the draft of these laws, to make the people known. I've long wanted to mention that proverb to a people who is well known, I don't think we should translate it, that we all know it, that we all understand it, that there's no selameta from the imposition, and that reminds me, it was almost a beautiful report on the Petrič family in Sarajevo, that they settled well, they chose a place and in their home there are very many elements of BiH folklore. I'm sorry that those who are more often in touch with him didn't write him a few of those folk proverbs, which, for many reasons, once upon a time, these old people invented and are real. So my proposal is to process all these laws by the Council of Ministers of BiH and return them to the draft in the initial procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6730	Mr. Tokić answered, and then Deretić, I'm sorry, Mirko pa Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6731	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think you should get serious, this is a very important item of the agenda and, if it has the purpose of its today's consideration, then it should go in the direction of information by the College. Whether there are conditions for some of these laws to be agreed, given the practice of their application and the fact that in the application of these laws, they have been given a truly thorough support from members of all the peoples and citizens of BiH and that the Council of Ministers informs us whether there is a expressed political will that the number of laws imposed by the High Representative is reduced and that in a certain way part of the obligations that the High Representative has made for us, today we try to do. That's the only way it makes sense. Otherwise, these incomparable suggestions and playing with the masses will indeed lead to a level at which this item of the agenda, in that logic, will not have its full meaning or meaning, which is why it is placed as a part of the agenda in this high house.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6732	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. I also agree that we really have what we have on this, we know how these laws have been adopted, we know how they came, but I think that we can outrun things, or we can do what 161 do in the way that it already has. Mr. Banjac answered for the word, and then Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6733	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed guests, MPs, I think there is a need to maintain ourselves at this point in the agenda, because by declaring these laws by the High Representative, there is one sentence that actually offends any further parliamentary work and procedure, which is that the laws will apply until they are adopted in the same text as they are imposed. The question arises how is this possible and what is our task in such a situation? I beg you, gentlemen, this is an important question and it seems to me that we are entering a period when we do not know how to proceed. What will we agree if the sentence “until they are adopted in the proposed form ” stands. There's no alignment there. So, what's the role of MPs? At this point, she's demeaning herself to the end. And I personally think we're close to adopting the Anthem Act. If there were only some small arrangements, which should be proposed to the House of Peoples, because it seems to me that we are not controversial here and that would have at least that law, and for the rest of the laws, first of all, I don't know, they last as long as they don't, and when we bring them in and how we agree if we don't have the right to agree. So I suggest that the written one be referred, that the question be addressed, here, I refer the question to the OHR, as an MP. Do they remain in their position that these laws should be adopted in the same text in which they are imposed? If they remain in that position, any further work on alignment is not called reconciliation, but is called coercion. And I don't know, if it stays on that, and I personally think that there are opportunities very quickly, if we solve the flag problem, if we solve the hump problem, I believe that some other questions that are here would be solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6734	Thank you very much. Mr. Deretić, then Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6735	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the esteemed guests, we have received this material much earlier, so here, since it is the 4th or 5th extension of the 25th session, it is only today that we have the opportunity to discuss information about the laws at all, therefore, information. In this information I've read several times, I've really had nothing new to read or to see or to hear. Namely, this is where we're working, right now until today, when it comes to the mandate of us sitting here. So, six imposed laws that are on a temporary basis. Of that, you know that this council passed the State Anthem Act, but it was not adopted by the National Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I personally believe, as an MP, as a man and as a citizen, that, indeed, there is no luck in such imposed projects, especially if such imposed projects are not accepted by most citizens, regardless of what some reporters appear here and point out that most BiH citizens have approved these regulations. By the 162th day, indeed, I did not have the opportunity to read or hear in the media that a referendum had been held where citizens would have declared whether one of these imposed laws had been given to a half-breeding majority of BiH citizens. Thus, the flat-rates, which usually come from a single source here in this congregation, indeed, I cannot qualify them differently, but, indeed, as a flat-rate and extremely one-sided grade. The biggest tragedy is in all of this, when one regulation is imposed, which was here in a normal parliamentary procedure in quite another form, which had a fat explanation and now it turns out that it was imposed for quite other reasons and other initiatives, leaving the citizens no possibility, here I am specifically referring to the Passports Act. So, on amendments and amendments to the Law on Passports or travel documents, where indeed citizens, therefore, both entities remain deprived of the ability to exercise their discretion and to take a passport on which the name BiH will stand next to the name of the entity. Unfortunately, now it is indeed the naked truth. The goal has been absolutely clear since the first moment here. In that context, I have been against the amendments to the Law on Travel document, which is one of the laws, which was passed in the ordinary parliamentary procedure and I don't think I was wrong. The primary goal was to delete the name of the RS entity from the passport. After all, even here certain fellow MPs have said so without any pardon. Therefore, unfortunately, such views are also represented by one part of the international community and I am deeply recognised, as a human, as a citizen of BiH, as a citizen of the RS, regardless of who will be sitting here in the next term, I think, if this continues to work this way, I really think, and by nature I was never pessimistic, but I don't think there is a bright future for any citizen of BiH, regardless of which nation he encouraged and from which entity, and in which entity he is. In this context, Mr. Chairman, I support here my esteemed colleague Jovanović and my colleague Banjac, and for me it is perfectly normal that in one, but if we need to discuss this, although I understand this as information and I think from the moment these legal regulations are imposed that nothing has changed, therefore, that the College may eventually find an opportunity to consult with the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the BiH Presidency and to try to find common solutions that would be satisfactory and that we could discuss here in the regular procedure. Indeed, it is an absurd proposal from a fellow MP, who said that today we are eventually adopting and adopting one of these laws that are on a temporary basis. I mean, it's really more than absurd, and I think it's one of the most tactless proposals, and in that context, I suggest, if these imposed laws are already to be discussed, then that they prepare for one of the next sessions and that, normally in the ordinary procedure, parliamentary procedure, they find the most pathetic solution that we could discuss here and discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6736	The replica was answered by Mr. Tokić, so Mr. Malkić. Mr. Tokić, please, do you have an argument?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6737	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will really not allow it, and as chairman, I would ask you to avoid the torture of the same people who prevented 163 adoption of these laws and to be absolutely clear, these are SDS MPs, the Socialist Party, and sometimes with the support of the HDZ from restoring all the power of the arguments...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6738	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6739	...all the force of the arguments and to renew the debate on the laws that have been declared. If there is, allow me, this is the same information. If there is a possibility that something has changed in the views of MPs who have prevented the adoption of this law, then there is a logic to debate. In my opinion, it's not an absurd proposal from Mr. Malkić. It is absurd that after all the changes, even the fall of a mentor in Belgrade, you are still thinking, Mr. Deretić, as you think. In this context, it is best to stop this debate, if nothing in the political views of the people who have prevented the adoption of this law in the parliamentary procedure has changed, because we have heard many and many stories. Believe me, people's masses, as one colleague would say, peoples and citizens are tired of these stories.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6740	I ask you nicely, when I expect the session to really start, stay, Mr. Deretić. Mr Malkić came forward for the replica, so Mr. Banjac and Mr. Deretić answered. I'm asking you not to take this session the wrong way. This is how it is and we think about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6741	I wanted to say this, that I don't consider my proposal absurd for the next reason. The High Representative, as the Supreme Authority, or interpreter of the Dayton Agreement, has imposed these laws which form information on us presented here. In order for us to change the laws imposed, we must adopt the laws imposed, and only then change, in the original form as they are proposed. That's why I don't think we're going to have a chance to discuss their changes, their additions, if we don't have them adopted by the House of Representatives, and that something has changed, yes. Zvornik has a flag of BiH, which was not until there was a Law on the State Border Service, and in other places much has changed since the adoption, i.e. after these imposed laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6742	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6743	For the sake of the public, I would like to reiterate that all 11 MPs from the RS and seven political parties voted against the imposed laws contained in the Information. Everything else is political, cheap calculations of even cheaper politicians I don't want to argue with, because it's beneath my dignity. 164
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6744	I have to answer to Mr. Tokić here what he just said. Mr. Tokić obviously messed up the pots completely. There's no problem here anymore, Mr. Tokić, who's from which political options, please allow me, you didn't interrupt him, and you interrupt me, don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6745	I tried to break him up, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6746	I've answered the word, the replica, and please allow me a replica. So now it turns out that you are bothered by any MP from the RS sitting here. First of all, I don't know where you could connect me to your mentor and the fall of a mentor from Belgrade. I am from the Radical Party of the RS which has no mentor in Belgrade or in the international community, and thank Bog, there is no party with you from which you encourage no touch points and I am proud of it. And when it comes to mentoring. Have so much decency, you know, when you were talking here, I was listening to you, and now you listen to me, since that's the elemental right that I have here as an MP, and you have to know at least the elemental standards of bonton and decency. So, when it comes to mentoring from Belgrade, you are obviously still tightly tied to Belgrade and mentorship to which you were tied to the 1990s. and '91. years, so when they're national options, and I went into politics in '96. In the year that the Dayton Agreement was signed, you were one of those who supported such options with all your heart until the other winds began to pirate, and then you began to re-prove some multiethnicity, which led us, unfortunately, to the situation of '91.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6747	Mr. Tokić came forward for the replica, so Mr. Deretić, but, sir, this is the last time, you know, I mean today, don't Bog.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6748	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, is the chairman, but you have no right to stupidity for the last time. Maybe you're the one who's running this session for the last time. No, I say, you can't say such a sentence as the chairman says and I beg you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6749	I'm sorry, I was counting on you to report to the Rules of Procedure again today. Here, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6750	Let me ask you, as chairman, that we really should direct this debate in the direction, whether any of the laws that the High Representative has imposed today, eventually reduce the number of commitments made by the High Representative in relation to us, and as far as all these definitions are concerned, I really do not want to use the dictionary from the RS and the definition of Banjac, Deretić, as one High Representative of the Radical Party did, but it is very close to the behaviour of these definitions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6751	Thank you very much, I apologize for the word once again, so I thought, well, we have the right to contact twice and nothing else. Mr. Tokić, I'm sorry, for the replica, please. There's no point at this point. Here you go, Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6752	The replica is on behalf of the SDS, and to Mr. Tokić, I expected that people who insist on being SDS will react and say that they are not members of our party, but since they are silent, here I am going to say. Mr. Tokić, the SDS is really open to new members, but until they join themselves, you have no right to join them. And while I'm here, to use two seconds, so is the journalist on the OBN's central show, in Dnevnik, Mrs Jovanović's representative of the Serbian Democratic Party. After that, he never apologized, which is completely incorrect, because Mrs Jovanović, everyone is known, is a member of the Socialist Party of the RS. My party doesn't mind, we're open to new members who can get the green light if they match our program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6753	The intervention has Mr. Banjac, for the second time, is not the third time.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6754	If Mr. Tokić continues with the most wireless insult from the place and behind the pay phone, I will leave the session, and I believe that there will be a lot of things in question then, Mr. Tokić, you will take responsibility for what is happening today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6755	Thank you very much. Mr. Kadić called for a hearing. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6756	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, we have information about the laws declared by the High Representative and I must say that this is a minimum of what we should have done in this House of Representatives and what citizens expected of us in the past, that is, this term of office. I think it is good that there is an institution that can come out of the framework of our inability to adopt laws that need BiH citizens. 166 Secondly, I am glad that there is an institution that can respond to the persistent obstructions of certain political options in BiH that BiH has no laws or that there are laws that we will adopt for years, so that entities and lower forms of organisation can uninterruptedly continue to usurp what is not their original jurisdiction. The time for the absolute domination of the entity has passed. The era of integration in BiH and political and economic and the era of establishment of BiH-level Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and laws, which have been given to the Dayton Agreement, is taking place. The fact that we failed to pass those laws, that's minus for us, but having OHR, that's good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In that respect, I'd like to set two things up. First, I support Mr. Tokić's proposal that requires a statement by the College on the possibility of some of these laws being adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Secondly, the minutes with the 20th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives say MP Haris Silajdžić gave up his bill's proposal until the OHR's opinion is obtained. In the programme of work of the House of Representatives under point 30, the House of Representatives will discuss the laws by the end of the year, which will be received, which are being prepared in the Office of the High Representative. These are laws on the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, BiH's Attorney General and BiH's administration, the Law on Administrative Disputes and the Criminal Law of BiH. I want to say it very directly. The practical situation in BiH was such that, let's remember, a few years ago, and even now we haven't exactly taken on a lot of responsibility and legislation at BiH level, that entities were absolutely dominant and fully doing what wasn't their jurisdiction. You remember that in time two entity prime ministers deployed two BiH-owned aircraft. Today, when the BiH state is in a dispute over a particular case, there is no BiH institution that protects and defends BiH's property. There is a temporary, or decision by the BiH Council of Ministers to appear wherever the BiH state is in the dispute, cannot appear in court and to extend the processes. I would therefore like to conclude that I am asking for a statement from the House of Representatives College on whether, in an active correspondence with the Office of the High Representative, since we here have concluded that the Office of the High Representative will prepare these laws which I have explicitly counted here and whether we have information, given that the High Representative urged this Parliament to adopt the Law on the Court of BiH a few days ago. I want to know if he has come to the regular procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives and if not, do you have information when the Law on the Court of Justice and these other laws will be in the process, given that we have to adopt them by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6757	Mr. Dokić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6758	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I seem to be followed by fate, whenever I answer the word, then many report for replicas, and I can't get to the word, and then I get cold. But at first, in the form of a replica, it is really inappropriate today to mention some mentors that are no longer, in some way, on a political scene. It would have been 167 significantly better with the position of the future of BiH, if we had asked ourselves here, which is why only from two centres, from Podgorica and Sarajevo, the top statesmen did not welcome and support the changes that took place in the SRJ. That would be an essential question. It is the agenda, but I don't impose it as a agenda. So, the two BiH presidency presidents and the president of Montenegro, which is why some of the rare ones in the world at this time, who have not supported, but I am not imposing this issue, but only in the context of what I mentioned earlier. There's a question on this agenda that I answered to speak. Is there anything we can do today? And did this item of the agenda come with a great delay at the meeting of this assembly of the BiH Assembly? Let me make one comparison between scientific truth and political truth. The scientific truth is indestructible, as a new substance in nature, and each of its creators is a place of immortality. Political truth is some defined goal and it can only become true if it is accepted by most of the chosen people who represent these chosen ones. In that context, gentlemen, we here must admit that we do not belong to the place of immortals, but that we are ordinary passersby. We didn't fight for the truth here, we were fighting for imposition, and imposing is neither democratic nor true. And those who are believers, and those who are not believers, lately, are often called upon to this or that book, and to remind you, and in that Holy Book which is from Hrist and in that which is from Muhamed, it is written that the truth is destined to fight lies forever, and if at some point a lie wins, there is lawlessness, there is a crime, there is murder. I don't need to remind you of the period behind us, but I'm warning you of a period ahead of us. So it's about time we turned to that truth. The truth is always simple, and the path to truth is thorny. We weren't ready, either in this congregation, to walk on that thorn. We weren't ready, so we let someone else pass the laws. We have 1, 2, 3, 4 or five laws ahead of us to discuss. I'd remind you, in this group of laws, I don't count the last. What happened after the last session, the chairman, I would ask you to listen to me. The decision has been made here, and the decision is a sublegal act. A sublegal act doesn't have the weight of the law, but that's what it's all about. What do we do right now? This congregation is in no condition to make any decision. In the context of what Mr. Tokić has started, I don't think even the chairman can promise us anything that we can end today. That's why we need to make preparations. It seems to me that today, as much as we light our cheeks, we should agree that all these laws go back to the congregation procedure, one way or another. It is better to say, perhaps more precisely to be, that the assembly undertakes to ask each session the question of the law that has been passed by the High Representative, and that the next assembly meeting, we are late, forming commissions according to all these laws, which will prepare what is necessary. Maybe some law will be passed without any change. Somewhere it takes very little to get adopted, to show just a little goodwill. To form committees to prepare it. Why do I suggest this? Already within the next item of the agenda, we will consider the conditions for admission to the permanent membership of the Council of Europe. These laws, which are written here, are not now defined as a condition for admission to the permanent membership of the Council of Europe, only because we have sincere friends there, who want us to be admitted to a permanent membership of the Council of Europe as soon as possible, so they do not impose an additional burden on us. But right after the reception, right after the reception, I repeat, as the first conditions for further participation and work there will be defined even by the deadline for which time we will have to adopt those laws adopted outside the congregation. It's better if 168 of us want to preserve the cheek of this congregation here, this home, because we haven't preserved ours. There will be some new children sitting here, thank Bog that it will be so, that we preserve the face of that congregation, that we ourselves accept this obligation, not that this obligation be imposed upon us. It's a question of our future trust. It is a question of including BiH now and in all those processes that will move significantly faster after the events that took place in our environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6759	Thank you very much. Is anyone else picking up?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6760	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6761	So are you staying at the replica? Mr. Raščić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6762	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers and other guests of this House. I don't understand Mr. Dokić's discussion that we've lost face. I don't think there's any need to talk in plural and I don't think there's any need in this House to talk about institutes like the truth and those institutes that aren't related to this work. In fact, neither this parliament has appointed a high representative nor has it given him any mandate. The mandate was the subject of a peace agreement and of those who signed the peace agreement. What is a fact, and I think it's important to say here, is that BiH, like other countries in the Balkans, will enter into some integrations. Of how much awareness we have in BiH and also in the Balkans, the process will run faster. As things stand in BiH, I think we are on the turn of events and I think the processes will go beyond the processes expected in Serbia and in some other countries in the Balkans. The problem that the High Representative is passing laws is the consequence of the inability to find a political agreement and consensus on issues that are important for BiH and its entry into the Council of Europe. We who are fighting for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe are aware of the difficulties and problems that await us, but the sooner we understand that, the easier these problems will be to overcome. We don't get along. Life runs right next to us. People use what brings a high representative and other institutions associated with the Council of Europe and I appeal to all those who have good intentions to re-integration of the Balkans and countries in the Balkans, to make themselves known, because the processes of disintegration must have gone on forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6763	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6764	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honourable Members, esteemed guests, I think that this is the point of the agenda and the debate that is being held is the debate over the debate and that, of course, we are doing something without essentially anything happening 169. I must draw your attention that there may have been a long time ago opportunity and order that, esteeming the assistance of the international community representatives at every session, what Professor Professor said. Dokić, let us consider one law that has been imposed by the High Representative and try from a set of these laws at least one to adopt or confirm in parliamentary procedure or amendments and corrections that we agree to come to. Today we are having a debate as rain around Kragujevac. We now have the tendency to express expectations from the High Representative to continue imposing laws, and we are unable to seriously open a debate on any law imposed, which we will have to do sooner or later, whether in this conference or in the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. What I see today is that there is clearly no political willingness to debate. We had a Law on travel documents where there was also no political readiness to agree. It was a classic division. So, when it comes to passport, it was a classic division of MPs from the RS and MPs from the Federation of BiH, gentlemen, classical, without exception. Now we have that division again. Who appreciates the country they live in? He says, there is no minimum political will to open a problem, it will leave it for those who are coming, and thousands of problems that can be solved at these and the next sessions, and that there will be no waste of time, I would exactly suggest that the conclusion be, that one law be considered at each of the next sessions. Whether it will be adopted in the same original form, which is imposed, or will be changed, we will see that when the debate on these legal projects is opened. And by keeping these legal projects in the vacuum, and waiting for the rest to be imposed, Parliament's life is losing its meaning. He loses his sense of everything the people pay us for in this representative council and, of course, what he expects of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6765	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and guests. I had no intention of answering the word at this point today, because it was clear to me that the point was unprepared and that the point would serve one debate, as I assumed it would be. Therefore, I don't think any law can go through this Parliament without regular procedure and should go, and I agree with my colleagues, one law at each of the next assemblies in the regular procedure and the debate under the law. And now I'm replicating some of my colleagues here. He says the High Representative has passed laws to improve our life and material situation in BiH. Please, the symbols of BiH are like this or like this, but, don't be mistaken, the symbols of BiH must be what the citizens want and what the people of BiH want. These symbols can be brought in whatever you want, and they will be respected as they are brought in. We've passed the Anthem Act here, and we still have two laws, the Administrative Tax Act and the Border Service Act. I'd like someone to report to us what the Border Service has done so far. I have information that 11,000 foreigners have entered the Sarajevo airport, not to mention a country from which 4,800 foreigners have entered and that only 300 know where they are now and that BiH has become the largest human trafficking ring this year. We've raised the Border Service to one level. We have not done what is professional, it is important that we set some goals, and what is done does not matter to us and we have brought about a good state of BiH. What we have passed 170 of the laws of economic and other laws, which is important for BiH's life, and we boast we have a high representative, that's lucky we have him, he has brought us laws that can make life better. What have we improved with these five laws, tell me, please? What happened to that, if we didn't accept those laws from the end to the beginning, if we didn't build them right, there's nothing from those laws, and there's nothing. Therefore, let us once enter into a normal debate, agree normally, not that some political parties that set political goals for themselves should look like BiH, behave, and the essence of what will be behind it does not matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6766	Thank you very much. Mr. Divković, do you have an argument? Mrs. Muminagić, did you answer for the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6767	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I ask the College. Why did you put this item on the agenda? What was the reason and purpose of putting this point on the agenda? If we need information about the laws imposed, we all know what laws are imposed. We were there, we were discussing them, etc. I only see two possible reasons. One is that some of that in this term of office, these next month, eventually, be brought in. So that's the only thing that makes sense to me. Now to plan, to be constructive, and to plan how to work the future call of parliament, it is, in my opinion, unacceptable simply because the new assembly of parliament will adopt its work plan, the way we have adopted it, but we have not realized it. So we can agree here, possibly in the next 15 days, 20 days, some of these laws are passed or that this point, with the conclusion that we've had information about laws before, is off the agenda. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6768	Thank you very much. Mr Spahić and Mirko Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6769	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am the next Work Programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, yesterday in the procedure of the chairman of the Law on the Protection of National Minorities and Rights in BiH. Also, the next response to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College, as an MP and president of the GDS BiH, I have released the procedure and I hope you will get it within seven days all, during this session, amendments and proposals to the BiH Constitution. As an MP, I expected today to discuss this item of the agenda, first of all with regard to the intervention of the High Representative, who asked that if this Parliament, in its term of office, could, in this term of office by 10 November, it would be possible for us to consider and adopt the Law of the Court in order to create conditions for safe and stable investments as Mr Rakić spoke of. I was just thinking, when he opened the debate on the laws declared by Mr. High Representative, there would be an opening of a fundamental debate. I think this item of the agenda, about seeing what the High Representative has declared in the past period, in relation to the legislation in BiH, is only logical if we do not slip into the situation in which we have slipped the passport. We fought to get that thing through 171 through the whole procedure as it was and it was a proper procedure. It took several sessions to continue, up to this point. After that, it's quite logical that you didn't include it here, as far as I've noticed, also declared the Single State Passport Act. After this, unless we accept a suggestion, which is quite correct, because it is a partner, I underline, it is a constitutional and legal partner based on the General Peace Agreement, the Law on the Court of BiH, for the protection of economic interests and of the citizens of BiH and their existence and social, of course, positions will also, in one way or another, be placed in the procedure, either by one or a group of MPs, and if we do not accept it, normally, that, as the next legal act, since it has responsibility for this country, it will be declared on behalf of the international community by a high representative. So, I'd like to say to this occasion this, on the agenda point. It cannot be retroactively questioned, I have already said several times, what has been legally done under the General Peace Agreement and the powers of the High Representative and this House. If we do not have the political will to do today and prepare, let's say, order, instead of the College considering what counterpart Divković has suggested, what can we adopt in the procedure or not, when we all know that the procedure for the next fifteen or a month is not in this home. It would be wiser for us to concentrate on what we need to help people, both in the country and abroad, to invest in this country, and to have judicial findings that will guarantee their investments and capital, that is, before us. Behind us are this coat of arms and this flag and anthem to which we rise. This coat of arms and flag are everywhere in BiH, and what is now problematic is that the procedure should be passed, it is completely independent, because it says in the recommendation of the High Representative, in our documents, in the General Peace Agreement, until consensus is reached, I underline, the key word consensus, about amending and passing an adequate law, through normal procedure, these laws will normally apply. So, I don't mind. Of course I'm always in favour of protecting Parliament's integrity. I'm in favour of us coming with every law in the process, but, undermining, today's debate, three weeks before the elections, about what needs to be done with these laws, it's independent, because there's a very clear direction on what's going on with these laws. They apply until they pass a different law, with other meanings, under full consensus, this home and the House of Peoples. Therefore, it is undeniable. It's not against the community or the High Representative or us, it's about us talking one... we need to concentrate, if there's any hira for the people, what we need to bring now, so there's no law to be put back into the procedure. It's the law of the court and a whole set of laws. I'm undermining, it's amazing that we're putting on the agenda laws that everyone in this room knows about, and the whole public knows there's no consensus, you don't need to discover hot water, we don't need a lecture on who loves, in the name of whom he loves, he doesn't love, but those are the laws that exist. The problem is that there is no political procedure in the BiH Parliament, neither in the BiH Council of Ministers, nor in the BiH presidency, to reach a new consensus on these laws. And more devastating than that, there is no political procedure, no consensus, to implement its own programme in which, too, the laws, which we, if we don't declare, will be declared by this or some other high representative. So we cut the branch we're sitting on. Niko one puts any obstacles to reaching consensus. The question is whether there is political will, whether there is political dialogue and whether there is a willingness to do these things. It cannot be 172 BiH, there is Mr. Rakić quite right, I conclude, to block by talking about these things that are working. We need to open up issues of economic and social policy, but it is necessary to adopt so-called economic and social policy. the legal framework for good business of the State. We've had four years of pain over the BiH Council of Ministers, we've created new ministries. I guarantee you, these MPs themselves, or the new ones who will be, will gladly accept three or four more new ministries. Why? Because there's no state that won't have the Ministry of Labour and other jobs. Therefore, please, I propose that this item of the agenda be concluded as a general debate and that only space be opened if we can adopt by the end of the term of office some law which is from the Work Programme of our Parliament and this law that recommends, too, the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6770	Mr. Dokić has a replica, then Mr. Baković. Please, let's round this empty debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6771	First, I must say, it is sad to hear from the president of a party called the Citizens' Party, in which the basic postulate would have to be a consensus, and he suggests imposing. It's really sad, and that's why I just talked about the truth and the lie, but, of course, it's not understood and not everyone can understand it. I called about something else. For the sake of truth, for the sake of real information, no new travel document has been imposed. The High Representative has made a decision, gentlemen. And if you can't tell the difference between the law and the decision, then that's your problem, but because of the information, because of the public, I'm telling you, the High Representative has made a decision, and the decision, gentlemen, is a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6772	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6773	Ladies and gentlemen, just one sentence. I have been very precise and you have listened carefully, I have used one word “consensus” for which I fully understand that it was a word, for example, as an injection, via the Internet, that Mr Dokić may easily react, but, consensus in politics means what, of course, Mr Dokić does not understand, but not all MPs must understand all things.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6774	Please don't call.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6775	Since he said the president of the Civil Democratic Party was talking about imposing. I'm undermining, not a single statement of mine was about imposing. I just said, in the process of implementing the General Peace Agreement, there are only 173 two partners key to the game in BiH, when it comes to laws, it is the High Representative and Parliament. I've never advocated a high representative of any document in these two years. Never. And especially about passports. Whether it is a decision or a law, Mr Dokić understands very well that it is a good document, and I am glad that he will use it, as I do, as all other citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6776	Thank you very much. Mr. Baković, come in. We're closing the debate, please, we'll get to the bottom of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6777	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I would like to say a few words about this session, or on the agenda, or in connection with the appearances of some of the debaters. Here we are fighting today over those things that have already been done. I don't think we should be wasting energy for that. The travel documents law, if declared operational, by the decision of the High Representative, Mr. Petrič, seems to me that we should take it as a final fact and move on. Why? Because, for some utilitarian reasons observed, we would not benefit from this discussion and the argument, and on the other hand, which is the role and place of the High Representative, the OSCE, OHR, etc., legitimately legitimate in these premises, therefore, to conduct a discussion now whether it is from a legal or political point of view either way, right or wrong, I think it is a waste of business. And on that point, I'd say that this agenda, as such, should be accepted and that we should be working, but, most of the time, it's asked me to come out here to say something, is that there are some things that are a little bit of a concern that don't tend to be good. In fact, several times, some of the debaters claim that there are some forces in BiH that are a disintegrating factor in this regard. I intend to say something like that that is quite wrong and that these are dangerous political thesis, because under the term “disintegration” usually means so-called “deintegration”. decentralisation? That is, in the fight against the so-called. disintegration, in fact, hides dangerous intentions and dangerous tendencies to fight decentralisation and to move towards BiH's creation as a single unitary state, an integrated state, a centralist state. I think that practice is wrong and that we should fight against such tendencies. Bosnia and Herzegovina, if created, and created, is on the way to being created, but if it is not a decantralized state, it will be an unhappy state. That's what history has shown in terms of the former Yugoslavia, and it will also show for BiH. There is here, Mr. Kadić said the time of the entity has passed. I, as a Hrvat and as a member of the HDZ, also see these entities from one indolent position and I am indifferent to entities, both the RS and the Federation of BiH, as a Hrvat, because in fact, we are only participating here and it does not mean much to us, but if the Washington agreements or the Dayton agreements are a specific place of the entity, it should be respected in the current sense, and what the future will be, we will only see it. So we can't say now that the entity's time has passed, when the entities are there, and as such they're current. So, that's the point, I mean the essence of all these conflicts in this parliament is that only two thesis, two concepts, will BiH be arranged as the 174 centralist state or as a decentralised state. That's what I think, too, that we should draw from the history of conclusions, positive conclusions, and build this country as a state that will be decentralised. I can only say it from practice, from experience, from observing things, that the Federation of BiH, as such, as an entity, is seeking centralisation, and that it deliberately and consciously takes away many prerogatives to the counties and it is not right, neither under the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, nor by the constitution of the county. And another, someone mentions HDZ here. The HDZ here is constructively involved in the realization of certain things and is not involved in some important conflicts. Therefore, I mean, it should not be taken into account in this negative context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6778	Thank you very much. You have a replica, and then I'm finishing the debate on this point. Here you go, Mr. Kadić, I'm finishing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6779	Well, I hope my replica doesn't cause major reactions. In light of my statement that the entity's past time has passed, I want to explain, the time has passed for usurping the authority of the BiH state by the entities, which the entities have provided and taken over for the past five years for two reasons. First, it was very difficult for BiH institutions to work basedally, and then when they started working, they were very difficult to regulate issues that were their original jurisdiction. In this regard, therefore, I think it is coming, and it is primarily the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the time in which we will assume responsibility for political and economic integration in BiH, for the laws that we will regulate BiH issues and, yes, I will be very decadent, and to stop using the the thesis by which every thing that needs to be solved at BiH level is centralisation. Please, don't scare us that whenever we want to do something at BiH level, we get a charge of centralization and a desire to dominate. I am president of the LDS, the fundamental principle of liberalism is freedom, individualism, decentralisation. But between decentralisation that doesn't exist and that doesn't give its effects, and so on. and my attempts by many people here to arrange BiH, at this point, for a minimum number of laws that serve the interests of all citizens and of all peoples. I am in favour of moving towards that direction and I think that there are many more things on that road that we need to resolve and I hope that every day, in every respect, more and more of us in this room and the citizens of BiH, see that their canton, their entity, their municipality, or I don't know what else, is narrow, and even many who walk and BiH itself will be tight because we will wish for other types of integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6780	The wrong quote has Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6781	Only in one sentence. It must become a past usurpation of entity intelligence by BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6782	Thank you very much. Mr. Baković, we're not reopening the debate and I'm not giving my word to anyone anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6783	I understand Mr Kadić very well, and I agree that BiH should and should strengthen, even relatively speaking, is strengthened in a centralised sense, but in relation to the tendency, or status, to the phenomenon of centralism and decentralisation, at least should lead to balance, and I mean the next practice, or current practice, does not show it, but rather shows the tendency of centralisation, and you yourself have said that the time of the entity has passed, it is already a perfect function, that means that the time of this entity, these and these decentralised segments have passed, which means these are dangerous already findings. So I'm saying there's a balance between that. But let's not consider Mr. Petrič's decision or attitude from a legal point of view, not a moral aspect, but a political necessity, it's a political necessity, and as such, let's take it temporarily and consider it somewhat legitimate, because there is no other. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6784	Thank you very much. I'm finishing the debate on this point. We only recap a few proposals that have been crystallized here, and that's under number one. To be clear, who's in favour of voting on these laws at all, or who's in favour of not voting on them, because they're being imposed. 2. Put all this back in order. Some have a suggestion that it goes individually, one, the other, and the third. 3. Finally, Mr. Banjac's proposal, the argument of the Lord of OHR. 4. All this ends as a debate, i.e., to understand as information and to conclude this debate by Mr Spahić. I'm putting all these proposals to a vote. Okay, I'm taking a break to get us into college. We've got 15 minutes to break. We've got a quorum, we can make a metric decision. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing the session. The college has agreed that, please, you can't hear yourself because you're talking. The College agreed that this would be general information, which was exhausted by debates, and that any representative, or group of MPs, who can propose these laws in a regular procedure, retain their right and can implement it, thus the item of the agenda has been absorbed. I'm not giving anyone, we're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad. 2. An innovative list of conditions for BiH's admission to the V.E. Please inform the rapporteur of this agenda item, Dr. Is the Prlić in there? 176 We're going with the second item of the agenda. Mr. Dokić, Dr. Dokic. You're a Prlić. Come on. Sluts.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6785	Everyone's got the material.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6786	Mr. Kadić, today was a debate and it was put into regular procedure. As soon as we get any information from the BiH Council of Ministers, it will be on the agenda. It was today.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6787	If our speaker doesn't have any other information.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6788	Mr. Dokić, what do you want? Mr. Tokić, you don't want two. Mr. Dokić, are you finished? I've moved on to the second point and I'm waiting for the reporter. I'm waiting for Mr. Prlić. Besides, you have information in front of you, you have material and I'm opening up a debate while Dr. The Prlić's not coming. Here you go, Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6789	Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to speak as one of the five members of the BiH delegation in the Council of Europe. There are no others present, so I took the right to report first on this agenda. You know that last week was a regular September session of the Council of Europe, where we tried at least within the Commission on Political Affairs to discuss the conditions for BiH's entry. That's not allowed. We only had talks with the chairman of the Political Affairs Commission, Mr Teri Dejvis, and with the BiH Commission's rapporteur, Mr Laslo Surijan. In this conversation, we tried to create a slightly changed, easing position on BiH's permanent electoral law, asking for it to be removed at this time, as a condition without which it cannot, explaining this by the fact that these elections, which are now November 11th, will be conducted under the Interim Election Rules, and that the elections will be conducted in two years' time, so in 2002. However, it's apriorily rejected. The message is clear. Without a permanent electoral law, indeed, there is no discussion of BiH's admission to the permanent membership of the Council of Europe, and I underline that once again, the law must be adopted, that is, adopted by the BiH Assembly. The explanation is, it is one of the key laws of one state, the example must be shown, I now quote "this example must show the 177 readiness of BiH institutions to resolve their own issues". So we take it extremely seriously, without a permanent electoral law, no talks, no agendas on BiH's admission to a permanent membership of the Council of Europe. Other requirements, which are mostly addressed to entities, the Federation of BiH and RS, over these conditions, can, to some extent, be crossed, but this is a condition without which one cannot. What do we do now at this point? The fact that we, at the end of our term, may be a good fact, but this suggests that this assembly will certainly not arrive on the agenda of the work that the commission has done in connection with the permanent electoral law. I think we should talk here today about a strategy that we can make by the end of our term and then a suggestion on how to proceed. That is why my proposal, in the next sense, is that this committee, which was formed on behalf of Parliament and on behalf of the Council of Ministers, continues to work, to come up with one material, in which, if they did not agree completely, they agreed to say what an agreement was reached on which no agreement was reached. I think that this minimum would have to be done by this assembly, that it would be the initial material for the next meeting, but to begin immediately after 11 November, whether this commission will do so, especially if most members of that commission stay in the Assembly, then it can be this commission and possibly complemented, to create conditions for one of the first sessions of the new assembly to be on the agenda to reach the level of compliance of the permanent electoral law, so that, possibly in January, we can send a strong signal to the Council of Europe regarding our commitment to adopt this document. This would mean, therefore, and the failure to adopt by January would mean putting BiH on the agenda even if the Commission for Political Affairs had made progress, then the Commission could, in April, hold a session and decide and adopt a final recommendation or refuse to join the Council of Europe on a permanent basis, so that, according to the most optimal scenario, the reception could take place in April and a little less pessimistic in June. If this doesn't happen, I'm afraid a pessimistic scenario will happen that BiH will remain a black hole in Europe, the only one isolated from Europe, and we would have to agree, to agree with the conclusion that joining the SE, in the permanent membership of the Council of Europe, for BiH, after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, would be the most important political event, the most important political act. In all of this, I will not say an obstacle, but a certain dilemma, or a certain brake, that this process of the permanent electoral law ends in January, possibly in February, and that is the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. You know that decision is carried out through entity assemblies. The recommendation is, I think, that this is a recommendation from the Commission, and here is the entire BiH delegation that was in the Council of Europe, in a conversation with Mr Dejvis, that this issue does not hinder the adoption of a permanent electoral law, to put in transitional provisions a provision that will make it mandatory to, in accordance with the amended entity's constitutions, take appropriate changes and in the permanent electoral law. I think this consensus, that it's a minimum that we should accept and really open the door to a process that will lead to adoption, within this assembly, of a permanent electoral law. Otherwise, I will repeat what I just said in the context of these laws that we have discussed, just for the sake of goodwill, that we be admitted as soon as possible to the permanent membership of Europe, and these laws are not a condition, therefore, to pass through the BiH Assembly. This condition will be imposed immediately upon our reception, and for this I suggested that we discuss it, not 178 after someone's directive. That would really be another good signal if we were ready to take BiH's political fate into our own hands. Thank you very much. It was also accepted and should come from here to send a message not to extend those conditions defined by the Political Committee of the Council of Europe in the Bolocer report last year and Mr Dejvis, the president of the commission agreed that further conditions would not be extended, especially if we were to be responsible under the permanent electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6790	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić, Mr. Tokić, then Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6791	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I have carefully looked at this document relating to BiH's entry into the Council of Europe and very well what was now heard from Mr. Dokić in the skating beginning, from now on until June, as the procedure was about to take place, if in some way there was a solution. But there is one false allegation for which it is probably not Mr Dokić's fault, but the practice of this parliament. In a statement by Mr Dokić that there is a parliamentary commission and commission of the BiH Council of Ministers, as far as I know, the BiH Parliament has never formed any commission for permanent electoral law. As far as I know, it was one initiative in the College, with the speaker of our parliament, who probably, wanting to speed up this process, took over Parliament's competences, and you assumed it was our will as well. The will of the BiH Parliament, in this sense, to which you are calling for us to be prepared for this procedure, is in fact not expressed, because this commission has neither been verified in this parliament, nor has it been given any political party or group of opportunities to participate in such work. It's just for the truth to come to terms with it. Otherwise, as for the information on your conversation with the representatives of the Council of Europe, I assume that this is the essence of the talks that we and other representatives who have had the opportunity to discuss with representatives of the Council of Europe are likely to get to know or confirm the same allegations. What is much more significant is whether this House's political will today can be discussed, when it is almost impossible to say that we will do so in the next month, whether it can be established or not. Whether there is a consensus in the BiH Parliament, among existing political parties, on the action and work of the commission, as parliamentary commissions. Of course, anyone can make a proposal for the composition of that commission and there is nothing controversial about it. This is about Parliament and relations with the College. As far as the subject is concerned and its fundamental foundation is concerned, I would like to say that, of course, we all know that this reception will follow between April and June, if we respect this treaty on our relations with the Council of Europe. So let's take a step like that. But this does not mean that BiH can, as I understood Mr. Dokić's discussion by June, postpone any issue concerning obligations, any entity assemblies, any Council of Ministers of BiH, or this home. This means that one process in the making of the electoral law, and normally it would be that others, who are signatories, are obliged to realise some of the conditions they accepted long ago, several years ago, have to realize. So, I just want to say about the way the strategy is, as far as it's concerned, it would normally not wait for that formal, important, most important event, and then say, now we're going to start all over and what you're asking us to do. It's possible that everyone does their jobs, in accordance with the jurisdiction. 179 As far as the election law is concerned, I have, by the way, proposed and felt that this would be a responsibility, of course, when several proposals were exhausted by MPs and MPs, it was logical that such a proposal would come and then, after the failure of the OSCE proposal, by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and if the BiH Parliament today shows the will to include or join the work of the commission or to unform its work and show a form to do so in the new assembly, it is a sign of the goodwill of the BiH Parliament, and everything else is almost, as I would say, unnecessary. And to conclude my intervention on admission to the Council of Europe. With regard to the accession to the Council of Europe, there is, meanwhile, a key change in BiH... our country and its political institutions are fundamentally changing. Last year, at the 11th month, with my colleague Kadić, and now and personally, I submitted proposals for constitutional changes concerning the BiH Constitution. That's perfectly legitimate, that's how it stands. One day when there is a proper relationship of strength, it is likely that these changes will, logically, come in itself. Meanwhile, several sessions of the BiH Constitutional Court were held, and as is known, on the 14th of last month, it was published in the Official List of BiH Constitutional Court Decisions on the equality and consistency of the people and the equality of all citizens in BiH. It is also known that we have received one letter, as well as that we ourselves are aware, because it is stated by some of the authors or members of this committee, that it is necessary, in addition to these 95% full consent on the provisions of the permanent electoral law, to overcome these few percentages which concern the equality of all citizens and of all peoples in BiH and agree with the consensus of one electoral law, with articles that will also correspond to the structure of such a significant strategic document, certainly, very important, after the Constitution, and most important. What happened in the meantime? On 14 September, we have a decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH. The Commission, in practice, has been working for a month. We do not have an answer on these few percent equality that should be incorporated into articles. We do not have an exact answer, whether there is a political will to have our Parliament, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the political parties that make it, engage, in entities to make rapid and logical changes in the structure of the entity constitutions and then to create an ar... of this Parliament, in which the full equality of all citizens from all territory and all peoples will normally be built. So, will you, that's another will we don't see. We do not see, on the one hand, the parliamentary will of this commission and we do not see the other will of the Commission or those members of the College and of the Council of Ministers, that these few percentages concerning equality, the basic act, are incorporated into that law and offer it in advance to us on a regular procedure. Speaking of which, I would like to say that it is clear as day that he then had to intervene with the OSCE, with a rather palitative solution, which has been commanded by entity constitutions, but which solves some of the problems of the 11 November election process. Basically, there is no procedure to build a political will in BiH, to go under what is the Constitution and what is the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. That's what needs to be decided today in the debate. I really understood that, with citizens and peoples, there is no will for Srbin to remain unequal in the Federation of BiH and Hrvat and Bošnjak unequal in RS. That is why it is perfectly normal for me for this other political will to be expressed in today's debate on admission to the Council of Europe, to show that political awareness has matured here on the need for full equality and freedom of all people throughout BiH. So there will be more and more proposals, if we don't bring this, I would say, 180 one solution for the BiH state, which is primarily about change, radical change, e.g. early elections for the BiH presidency, or a radical change concerning the political mileage in BiH. In addition to this debate, I would like to express my confidence that these two political wills will meet, if not verbally today and at the next session of Parliament or in a political campaign, then at least in the new parliament, when there will be changed relations of forces, I hope for the well-being of the citizens themselves and of all equal peoples. By the way, as far as the reception goes, I hope we all get a chance to see it in a year.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6792	Mr. Tokić, then Mr. Divković. Tokić, then you're behind it. You have a replica, you need to tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6793	I will nastojaću, indeed, briefly, Mr. Chairman. It was quite logical for the minister to report on this matter first of all, but since he was not present when we started with this agenda point, I took the right, I repeat again, as one of the members of the five-member BiH delegation in the Council of Europe to talk about it. I must say, it is a little insulting to Mr Spahić's initial approach, when he said this is one watching, and we will hear another watching. That's proof of how much we trust each other here. It's the slowest fact for me, worse than the one you just recommended, that we should impose things on us, we really don't need it, and I'm putting on, feel free to copy every word I just said, but I answered for the line for something else. Even in the mind of what I was saying, it wasn't that we should wait until June to accept some of the other conditions required of us. I just said that there is a good will in the Council of Europe to see through certain conditions, if we don't get to adopt them, that there are no conditions for the son of a qua non. It's a message, Mr. Spahić. I am really asking you, here, from this discussion, because you can conclude that we care about being admitted as soon as possible to the permanent membership of the Council of Europe, or we care that we are here until we are outsmarted, fulfilling these or those conditions, possibly or impossible, delaying that moment. Many MPs act just like this, delaying, not accepting a well-intentioned hand. We fought, all five members of the delegation, there are five parties from BiH, not to extend the conditions. It's in the interest of everyone, and it doesn't mean that we shouldn't insist on all these conditions that are being put in front of entities, and we should possibly talk today, to create a mechanism to get them to implement those legal acts that need to be made as soon as possible. So, no, gentlemen, wait in June or April, but work right now, but, it's a clear message, there are three key conditions without which there are no 181 conversations. These are: functioning of the Council of Ministers, functioning of the joint assembly and it is a permanent electoral law. Without that, there's no talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6794	Dr. Crescent. Do you want to say something? Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6795	I apologize for not being on time in the hall. To be honest, I didn't expect it to start in time, and I'm going to try to inform you again honestly about the current situation. Election law is just the tip of the iceberg. BiH is not in the Council of Europe because most MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe believe that BiH is not a state that operates in accordance with the minimum democratic principles. So this is why BiH has not been adopted and we can only argue about the adoption or non-compliance of the electoral law, but the reasons are much wider and much more serious. Even in the first version, the common agreed conditions were not the adoption of the electoral law, but rather the beginning of a serious debate on the electoral law, which was subsequently translated into the adoption of the electoral law itself. It is true that the conditions will not change, remain the same, regardless of the change of the rapporteur. I met with him privately two days ago. We've talked about this situation and I can say that he's really showing willingness to help us. However, it is obvious that we are not a case that can be helped at this point. The situation with the adoption of the electoral law is what it is. You know for the new moments and views of the Office of the High Representative that the law should be in line with the adopted European standards that regulate that area, or the OSCE position, in one direction or another, that it should be in line with the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, which provides for the consistency of all three peoples in the entire territory of BiH, which, in fact, makes the whole situation more complex, and objectively considering the situation, do not mind me, I do not think it is realistic to do this for several months in BiH. The verdict is next, too. Whether the new parliament, the new assembly of parliament, will be able to pass the electoral law or not, and in this respect, there are different views. Whether the new parliament will have right in the first plan election law, after elections, or not, or resolve other more vital issues. Such opinions are present in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe itself. In fact, you're looking for a way out of this situation that represents a kind of cultusac (?). In fact, it was all about election law. If adopted, the procedure can then be initiated, unless adopted, the procedure cannot be initiated, which means that several more months of BiH, objectively, cannot count on membership. We have been trying what is possible in these conditions, to come up with some special status, which would not have provided all the right to membership that, perhaps not in the beginning to be available to all citizens, to use the Court of Human Rights, which is only possible for those who are, citizens of those countries that are members of the Council of Europe, but that is all in one procedure, these are attempts in one situation which, in fact, does not exist at this moment, the willingness to take a more significant step before the election. Let me just have one more comment. I think the overall situation is probably most difficult so far under the implementation of the Peace Agreement and BiH, slowly approaching the absolute launch of the European list, especially after these 182 changes in the SRJ. There is even the possibility that the process of approaching the European Union can be significantly accelerated when it comes to Yugoslavia and that BiH is lagging behind as well. We take appropriate measures with a view, not to disturb the SRJ in that process, but simply to apply the same criteria at all. It is our view that it is the most dangerous for the region, as a whole, if there are double standards. If one applies to one principle, and those principles do not apply to another, and I do not think that this situation is extremely serious and, in fact, at this moment, everything depends on the upcoming elections, the upcoming compositions of parliament and let no one resent me, but one common position in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that BiH does not have a functioning parliament and does not have a functioning government and these are the fundamental reasons why BiH has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6796	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić answered. First Mr. Divković, OK.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6797	Dear colleagues, we of the SDP have accepted this proposed agenda, just because we wanted to in some way constructively contribute to the conclusion of this 25th session, since this, I think, is the third extension of the same session and not to complicate the situation, although we were immediately aware that the first item of the agenda, and the second point of the agenda, represent in a certain way here the attempt to justify this parliament, in front of the citizens of this country, for what we did not do in the period in which we functioned, means, for what we did not do, and it was a fundamental task for us. In fact, that's what we think he specifically gave us the conclusion on the first item of the agenda. The first item of the agenda we have absorbed here with the conclusion, which is the conclusion of the College, which we have not, in practice, accepted as Parliament and asked a real question and I asked it, I did not get the answer, what was the real point of the first item of the agenda, in general, at today's session. When it comes to this second point. We have also heard from the minister, we have heard from Mr Dokić, who is a member of our delegation in Strasbourg, that the only, practically, remaining condition, is the adoption of a permanent electoral law. That means there's no more innovative list of conditions. There is one condition, a permanent electoral law. So we are presented here, here, Mr. Dokić speaks with his finger that it is not, however, very clearly we are told. It seems to me, written in the information we received from Mr. Ambassador, standing on the table, which was divided before this session. If so, and I think it is, or if it is not, then surely this electoral law is a crucial moment that will prevail in the Council of Europe, then it would be quite appropriate for the second and third points of the agenda to be joined, because the third item of the agenda is the work group's report on the work to prepare BiH's electoral law. The college, together with the Council of Ministers of BiH, has said, formed a commission, probably cannot form a commission according to the Rules of Procedure, that is what Mr. Ibro Spahić was saying, but he can probably re-establish the task force, and that we treat it as a working group, formed a working group working on it. We have not been informed so far what has been done, how much has been done, etc. We can only make one 183 conclusion today, in my opinion, which is, since this task force has formed, I would say, this college and this council of ministers, given that in a month new elections, possibly a new college, a new council of ministers, that this working group then submits a report on its work and create some preconditions, starting grounds for the next parliament and the Council of Ministers, to complete the work as quickly and rapidly as possible. It's the only thing we can objectively do. We've heard the story here. I must admit that, if and what I believed in this Parliament, I believed that in our mandate we would meet the necessary conditions, which the Council of Europe has constantly reduced, to enter the Council of Europe, because it was somehow our common position. Unfortunately, we haven't realised it, although last year we had a promise at this time that it would be in the spring session, so after that, we had a promise that it would most likely be now in the autumn session of the Council of Europe and these promises are being extended, they continue, and we don't meet the minimum requirements. I will conclude this debate by proposing that we conclude that the working group, formed by the College and the Council of Ministers of BiH, will, by the end of our term, come up with a report on its work and possibly offer work material of the proposal for a permanent electoral law, which will succeed the future assembly of parliament, in order to make it easier to complete that part of the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6798	Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6799	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, today when we are discussing who knows which path to BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, we must accept with additional dramaticness what Minister Prlić said, which is that, with Belarus, Yugoslavia and BiH, there is a small number, a defacto, there are no countries that are not in this oldest integration. We have, periodically, every six months, had a delegation that would go to Strasbourg and come back from there and said the next time we will be admitted to the Council of Europe, which today shows whether, as completely untrue, and today when we talk about adopting an electoral law, I think it is very important that we understand that through this electoral law we need to confirm the basic principle, which is that we are ready to build democratic relations with full human rights for every individual, any nation, any territory that belongs. Of course, we, as a party, did not participate in a delegation that went to Strasbourg, periodically, every few months, or in a task force formed by the College, but, in the context of this agenda, because of the interest of this issue, would like to underline a very clear parallel. So we can't even get into a debate about being involved in the V.E. until we've passed the electoral law. We cannot think at all that we have a quality proposal for an election law unless we apply the BiH Constitution. I would point out here, it is not a new moment, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH is just a decision that clearly showed everyone that the BiH Constitution does not apply. We tried to point that out here when there was an election law debate. It's not a new political detail. The BiH Constitutional Court's decision is something that has only been confirmed, decidently ordered to implement what we have in the BiH Constitution, since the Peace Agreement was signed. In this context, given that all this parallel leads to a clear situation that BiH has no involvement in European integration, nor more serious consideration, without the affirmation of the constitutional preamble, or the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, I propose the next conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks the Assembly of Entitys, i.e. the Assembly of the Federation of BiH, to adopt an operational plan of implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision as the most important preconditions for inclusion in the Council of Europe within 184 days. If entities do not make this kind of commitment, there is no working group that can make quality electoral law. I ask you, as chairman, to put this on the agenda and allow me, without much drama, to conclude that you cannot, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, complete the agenda point as you have finished the previous point, if you three will conclude the agenda points, then our presence is not necessary. If you are going to form a commission on behalf of the House of Representatives, then our presence is not necessary and I urge you to accept your function that you are primarily isolated here to ensure equality in all plans of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6800	That's what you're actually looking for. Mrs. Rađević, that is, blames Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6801	When the predecessor speaks of our presence here, he can only speak for himself, not for me. So, when it comes to the work of the College of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6802	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Rađević answered. Mr. Tokić, I beg your order and discipline.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6803	In connection with the conclusion proposed by MP Tokić, which results in us adopting him and asking the entity's parliaments to take their stand in the Constitutional Court Decision within a month. The BiH Official Messenger, since 14 September, has issued a fully partial decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH, but that part concerns exactly what we are talking about and has been published, we have all been able to read, and who are lawyers and who are not, that five of the nine judges singled out the opinion, two Hrvat, two Srbin and one stranger. I questioned the lawyer and received the answer that, in practice, in some legal procedure, it allows the entity's parliaments to return to the review of this decision to the BiH Constitutional Court. If that is true, then this conclusion really cannot be made, because we cannot know in advance what the entity's congregations will do, or whether they will return to the BiH Constitutional Court procedure, and then a month's deadline is truly illusory for such a thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6804	Business intervention has Mr. Banjac, so Mr. Spahić has the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6805	Although I don't say anything to Ambassador Tokić because he doesn't need to know anything. He continues to throw out of office and I ask the chairman to give notice to the MP in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'd sue him, but he's impossible to sue, because it's the same if you'd sue a man with cancer because he has cancer.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6806	Please, Mr. Tokić, for discipline, you, here, once again please, and therefore you
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6807	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6808	Okay. Mr. Spahić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6809	The two of them are the same, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6810	I'll interrupt the session if this keeps up.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6811	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I once turned to a lady in this House, I am not quite sure that I am not mistaken in my name and last name, but I could always turn my attention to the way I dress, that it is in no way good to introduce myself, as he said, medical terminology, in what is now called political life in BiH, in this parliament. Mr. Banjac, as an experienced pedagogogist, I would recommend, too, not to use these things, because I have noticed that I, in fact, could never really figure out what initiatives people are to call death, cancer, carcinogenicity and to talk about things that are completely out of their minds when it comes to politics. I have to say, I'm very sorry, it's repeated for the second time, and you just know that there's a problem in psychology, which I would like to define in this Jungian way, without implications, I recommend, it's one almost possible portrait of a man and there's no problem at all, that terminology is well known, from which dreams, from which the burdens result in the need to traffic with other people, use concepts and relationships that actually mean nothing but their own degradation. The other thing I'd like to say is about Mrs. Rađević's intervention. It was an intervention, in any case, necessary, because in my presentation I made it quite clear that this is a discussion concerning the entry into the Council of Europe and the conditions that we have. The key in BiH, I said that for including exposure, that decision that was published, was Thursday, September 14, 2000, in all three languages, Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian. Since something here has been used that absolutely does not stand, in any way, that separate opinions are treated as the legal basis for reviewing decisions 186 of the BiH Constitutional Court, I want it not to remain in the air, that it stands as one, as I would say, another possibility to block the truly authentic interest of Mrs Rađević and let's say others who are here to, as I'm convinced, Mrs Rađević wants the equality of her people, all minorities and every citizen, as well as others. That's why I'd like to say it. The decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH are not discussed, as has been said a hundred times, subject to no separate opinions and it is not correct to use it as a basis for a promising, either voting body, or as a message to the international community, as the basis that nothing will happen and that the procedure will be impossible. As for the conclusion offered here for this item of the agenda, I am more prone to objective analysis, which is given, however, in the documents that we have received, when it comes to the conditions for entry into SE, which does not only involve electoral law, but also all other assumptions, such as the functioning of state institutions, which was more said in the debate, and when it comes to the agenda of the report of this working group, I think it is good that the working group decided to present this result of the work and that, as far as I know, I was able to read it, the last sentence reads, the working group signed, the coordinator of Ms Branka Todorović, which is for the first time to affirm our professional administration, in communication with Parliament, which is very well, signed a proposal, which is identical to the proposal given by Mr Tokić. That the working group invites us and the entity parliaments to push it, and that entity parliaments should not necessarily adopt an operational plan, but to amend those members of the Constitution from the 1st and further, which requires the Constitutional Court of BiH, and in that only part, regardless of what the commission and the working group were originally formed, I congratulate on the conclusion of the College and its group and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which, in one last sentence, in Mrs Branka Todorović's text, has decrypted the main obstacle to the process of democratisation in BiH and the new architecture of democratic BiH, and I would like that conclusion to be exclusively what the working group with the signature of Mrs Branka Todorović was proposing, because I saw that the composition of the working group as an unsustainable character. You can't see who he was and who he wasn't. When anyone participated and about what, and therefore I want to support one serious position of this task force, although I have not legitimateized it, nor the other MPs, to require the urgent, appropriate and responsible behaviour of the entity, without introducing separate opinions, as some new way of delaying or creating some new procedure in relation to the incomparability of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and I think it is the most important thing that will come from this debate today, because we simply know that we have so much time that we have completely lost it when it comes to this summit.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6812	Thank you very much. Please, the debate results in three, in fact, conclusions, or proposals for conclusions. Mr. Tokić made his proposal that you heard here. I ask you to make these suggestions in writing. The second is Mr Spahić's proposal, which you have also heard, and finally the third proposal, which I believe may come out of your discussions, otherwise, which would say: the Constitutional Affairs Commission is in charge of continuing work on the electoral law, so that the conditions for BiH's entry into the Ve and World Associations are met as soon as possible. I put all three of these proposals to the vote and, please. I'm putting Mr. Tokić's proposal to a vote. Who's in? Who's in favour of Mr. Tokić's proposal? You heard him, like I heard him. I'm paraphrasing him now, if I have to, let him paraphrasise him. The purpose of this proposal is for the entity assemblies to submit a proposal for a resolution of 187 electoral laws within a month. Mr. Tokić, right? Here, to make an operational plan, so now I'm paraphrasing. Who's up for the proposal? Here you are, if you are not in writing as usual, or, as you should, then, normally, give it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6813	The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the Assembly of Entitys, i.e. the National Assembly of the RS and the Federation of BiH Parliament, to take concrete measures within a month to implement the BiH Constitutional Court Decision as the most important preconditions for BiH's inclusion in European integration.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6814	Thank you very much. I'm asking who's in. Who's in favour of Mr. Tokić's proposal? You can vote for any proposal if they are not contradictory. Who's against the proposal? Who's restrained? Here's the commercial. I'm asking one more time. Who's in favour of Mr. Tokić's proposal? I'm asking about the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Who's against the Federation of BiH? Excuse me. Who's from RS for? From RS, who's in? Of the 32 present – 15 voted in favour – 12 voted against. The Federation of BiH 13 voted in favour – RS 2 voted in favour. Therefore, this proposal has not been passed. Let's go to Mr Spahić's second proposal. Should we formulate it exactly? Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6815	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I supported the spirit of your conclusion signed by Mrs. Branka Todorović, and I would like to define my proposal for a conclusion exactly. The Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary House of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, requires the entity assembly to immediately approach these constitutional changes, in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH, so that the draft of the electoral law can be referred to the parliamentary procedure because it is your result of the work.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6816	That's the next point, sir. You missed the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6817	No, no, it refers to this agenda point. I am against the adoption of an operational plan, in principle, but I voted in favour of showing good faith, since 188 are not the proposals that clash, and my suggestion is that, as a House of Representatives, since the Council working group and the College Working Group came to a conclusion that is crucial, that we strengthen it by the position of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we require that entities immediately approach constitutional changes and that, of course, is to unblock the work on the draft of the electoral law, because that is the conclusion of your work, and if we do not, point. I suggest the next conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires entities, the Federation of BiH and RS to join constitutional changes immediately, so that the BiH Election Law Draft can be put into parliamentary procedure, as this is a fundamental prerequisite for entering the Council of Europe, very clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6818	Thank you very much. I ask you all, who is for this proposal, Mr Spahić? Who's in favour of Mr Spahić's proposal? Who's against it? You need to go after the entities, Branka, you need to. Thank you very much. From the Federation of BiH, I ask, who's for the proposal? From the RS, I ask, who's up for the proposal? Of the 31st present – 14 voted in favour of the proposal – the vote was 10. From the Federation of BiH, 14 for, from RS 2 for. Therefore, this proposal did not go through either. We finally have a third proposal. The Constitutional Affairs Commission is in charge of continuing work on the electoral law, so that the conditions for BiH and the WE, and the world association, are met as soon as possible. Who's up for this proposal? I've concluded this proposal from your discussions and I'm reading it now as a suggestion. Please, the Working Group for Permanent Work on Election Law is in charge, so that the conditions for BiH's entry into the WE and the world's associations are met as soon as possible. Who's up for the proposal? Who's against it? Please, one more time, who's up for the proposal? Who's against it? Those who vote, you must vote, otherwise...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6819	The voting process isn't over, Pero.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6820	Please, Mr. Divković, voting process. I'm asking about the entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6821	Federation 8, but you didn't finish the first round, you only had for, you had no objection and abstentions. 189 Please, from the RS, who's in favour of the proposal? Of the 29 present, 15 voted in favour – from Federation of BiH 8 voted in favour – from RS 8 in favour. This proposal has not received the required majority either. Mr. Divković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6822	Mr. Chairman, I had a proposal that this House of Representatives should conclude that the working group, composed by the College and the Council of Ministers of BiH, by the end of this term, should complete its work in the next month to prepare a proposal for a permanent electoral law and to present it to this parliament, in order to enable this parliament, by supporting the proposal, to speed up the process of adopting a permanent electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6823	Thank you very much. You heard this proposal from Mr. Divković. I'm asking you who's up for this proposal? Who's against this proposal? I'm asking from the Federation of BiH, who's up for a proposal from the Federation of BiH? From the RS, who's up for a proposal? Of the 29 present – 19 was for – was against 2. From Federation 12 it was for, from RS 6 it was for. Therefore, this conclusion was adopted. And so we ended this point, and as you yourself said that the third point is quite overlapping with this problem, I'm opening the third point, and I'm asking that we refrain from unstructured, namely, proposals that don't really go into the final solution. I'm opening the third item of the agenda and I'm asking for a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6824	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking that even after this intervention, someone come out on behalf of the task force, so that I can meet someone who's put together these task force and speaker or president or coordinator, because I'd like you to, as soon as you've put this item on the agenda about the electoral law, to tell you what's essentially, where you've left off. Is it true what I said about the previous point, that last sentence, as you wrote it yourself, signed and authenticated it with the state seal. You've confirmed by the state seal, I repeat, that the Working Group is looking as soon as possible, as you said, that entities without listing the name create as soon as possible constitutional changes. I understood that, and I would like someone to clarify that, if that is not true, if that is not a fundamental conclusion, that, in view of the election law, this working group you appointed, and the Council of Ministers of BiH, concluded that nothing can continue to work and can not be put in the process in the way that you accepted Mr. Divković's proposal on the previous point, until the entities have made constitutional changes. Since it is now coming into contradiction with the previous conclusion, which has reached the House of Representatives, therefore, the fourth conclusion we have heard from colleagues Divković, with your view, the last of this information, I want to ask you quite precisely. What is the point of you delivering the draft electoral law to the BiH Parliament by the end of the term of office, if the previous conditions, which you have set up as the key to the problem of your work, no matter who appointed you and how you gathered, are constitutional changes in entities. I'm interested that whoever signed this document that we got for the agenda, is it Mrs. Branka Todorović, if she's the president of that committee or the coordinator, or someone else, before we open the debate, we hear the attitude, therefore, it's about the material we got, written, about the last sentence of your information. And my opinion on this debate is that in the future, if there are no more conditions, and there would be now that only anyone who can be in charge, if we are to make, underline, parliamentary interventions more or less, that they must be representatives of all political parties, must be a consensus on change. Otherwise, this game doesn't do any good. Please either Mrs. Branka Todorović or the chairman of Mr. Skopljak to address us and tell us what the meaning of the contradictions is, if they recognize it or do not recognize it, in connection with this final sentence of your final report. We didn't authorise you to do this job, but you offered yourself and I'd say we have no reason to be kind enough to accept it at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6825	I ask Mrs. Branka to give us a report from the Task Force, although you've got the materials and you've got them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6826	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm just going to read the last sentence of the report submitted by the Working Group and I think you'll learn from it. The Working Group believes that entity assemblies should join those constitutional changes as soon as possible so that the draft electoral law can be referred to the parliamentary procedure. I think this is a correct attitude and it doesn't need to be specifically commented.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6827	(Speaking from place, MP is pleased)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6828	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić. Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6829	Honourable MPs, I don't usually go out often, and this time I'm going to look back at the previous two points of the agenda. Both points talk about information, and here, too, talk about the report. I accept this as material that has come to representatives for knowledge and for proposing, possibly, some measures, in particular. I think we've spent too much time on those two previous agenda points, and we've talked about reports, without any effect, and specifically for this agenda point, because we're talking about the report and since we've come to a conclusion about the previous agenda point, to continue the work of this working group, I think that this agenda item is absorbed and that we have nothing more to discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6830	Thank you very much. You hear the suggestion. Is there anyone else to discuss? Who's in favor of taking this report into account? Mr Spahić, we have a report, so I believe that this is how we came to know and we have no reason to go further on about it. I don't think we have any reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6831	Since you, Mr. Chairman, said we had held the debate, we received a report from Mrs. Branka Todorović, who said she had nothing to comment on what she signed as a report on the work of this working group of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the College. Since you, by adopting the reports of this House of Representatives, are given the legitimacy as a working group, for the first time, because this is the first time that we have had the report of a working group of the Council of Ministers of BiH and of the Kolegijum, and that we have not previously appointed you, nor have we been informed of how it becomes a member of that commission, or how it is proposed, I would only like to maintain from this report, underlining, the last sentence, which Mrs Branka Todorović read and said "to get the draft electoral law," I suggest that this debate on your report may come if the entities immediately apply the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. I underline that this is nothing new and before the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court last year, none of the political groups that proposed the alignment of entities with the BiH Constitution, and it was about the proposal that Mr Kadić and I made, specifically, concerned the equality of citizens and peoples and the protection of minorities in BiH. I think this is the moment that if this report is adopted, Mrs Branka Todorović's statement and what I insist on should be the basis for the completion of this agenda and this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6832	Mr. Banjac has an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6833	I'm not finished. The BiH Constitution, no, not when I say, I finish, then I'm done. Mr. Banjac can't have immediate intervention, he might have better intervention when I say the second part. So in that part of the 12th month, you, Mr. Skopljak, sent me a letter, and Mr. Kadić, yesterday at our addresses, on behalf of the College, and you said that our proposals for constitutional amendments, the amendment of the BiH Constitution, as initiatives of last year, were not in line with the new rules of procedure. I have prepared for you, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure, today changes with nine sections concerning, among other things, this subject of our debate today, because I think it is a good thing that you remembered to respond in writing to the initiative of the MPs of this house and to point out this as a valuable effort, after a year's work, but also it would not be a good idea to put this last sentence in some information, in order to, in particular, do today, if we would kindly accept the information on the work of this working group. The key is that anyone who holds on to himself, in any sense, wanted to do it or not, certainly in the amendments to the Constitution and beyond, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and therefore, I had the need to give you 192 more recognition of what you read in this composition as I read it came to such a conclusion. If it is possible that you have come to such a conclusion, I have expressed my dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction or astonishment, how come you did not vote on the previous item of the agenda, when you swore to enter the Council of Europe, for several years you did not plead on your position on the electoral law. Your position was, here it is in the working group, here it is autonomously politically signed, no one pressured you, no international community, no MPs from other political parties from your proposal have been excluded, so nothing bothered you, you have concluded that the main obstacle to the draft electoral law is the change of entity constitutions and therefore requires you to declare your final sentence, as the conclusion of this agenda point, and that is the only condition that would be normal, if we want to talk seriously and to get some legitimacy to continue working in the spirit of the proposal given by Mr. Divković. If not, if it were some general information from which it is not known..., it would, in fact, be in some way just pro-longing things, as is well known, we will not come to this text, unless it is a clear conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to stop entities in line with the request of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which is uncoupling and cannot be discussed. And it was said in a statement by Mr. Petrič, which further encouraged you in your own political work, that it is certainly possible to offer a draft electoral law only if those positions, or decisions of the Constitutional Court, are integrated in full and without any further excuses. So, you have your own independent political activity, which I appreciate, and here you have, and for the first time complete consent and you have no dispute with the High Representative and it further obliges me to support your work, if this conclusion is as Branka Todorović said, without comment, I guess everyone understands it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6834	Mr. Dokić, then Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6835	You forgot about me. Ladies and gentlemen, since my predecessor was brief and concise, I will try to just say what was in the task force was a problem and why it stands like this. The OHR Office has received a memo requesting that no final draft be made, until the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision is implemented. We wrote you a report, and in that report we put the last sentence in order for the entity's congregations to come forward. We can't order anyone, we can't order anyone, but for further work, so we should do it, and I don't know why it's complicated. The Commission has crossed the full text, while Ibro has added to this performance. The Commission has crossed the full text, so we have a complete text and we have several disputed points, where we are looking for a alignment, but we are asking for the alignment of the draft with the existing BiH Constitution and the entity's constitutions. What is in the Constitution for us is binding. Why did the delay happen, not to say again, I said, and I think we have the conclusion in the previous point that the commission continues to agree where possible and there is no dispute, we will continue to agree and why we are now complicating the situation. I don't understand at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6836	Mr. Dokić answered, so Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6837	Ladies and gentlemen, it's really not appropriate for such important issues to be conducted on the principle of waiting, so when a word waits, a sentence, then it's so politicized that it disgusts the person who accepts it. We really don't need it here. I'm going back to the discussion on the previous agenda. It is not right that some MPs here have completely diminished the efforts of one, I would say, however, of legitimate working groups to draft a permanent electoral law. First of all, I will remind you, the initiative to form this working group has been formed by this BiH delegation in the Council of Europe. At that meeting, here in Sarajevo, immediately in June, upon returning from Strasbourg, except for the College, the chairman of both homes, I stress both homes, the presidents of parliamentary clubs and party representatives who do not have parliamentary clubs were invited. A team is formed. It is joined by part of the expert team and representatives of the Council of Ministers, so it is indeed one competent team. I'm ubijediti that no one on that team would object to him being and expanding if that was an expansion with good intentions. If you have read, gentlemen, and the letter sent by the High Representative to the rapporteur from the Council of Europe for BiH, Mr Surijan, then there he, you have seen, welcomed the formation of this group and indicated as a step forward towards creating conditions to reach a permanent electoral law. It was missed or maliciously refused to be interpreted. Not to lecture, it's my suggestion that, and the proposal that I'm going to ask you to plead, that we ask that the task force continue to work, that by the end of this term a full report, not in this sense to say what is controversial, but to be part of that draft that will put those things in line, and to indicate the disputed ones, similar to what was done here, so that the new assembly can continue with this work. This is my motion to vote. And I'm adding this suggestion that the new assembly, when it discusses this, and possibly an extended commission, after the election, is doing a whole election law, not waiting for changes to the entity constitutions. I'm not going to go into what's going to bring these changes and whether they're going to bring anything and how much they're going to bring, I'm not going in, really, we don't even have the right to order the congregations to do their jobs, and we don't do our jobs here. So, to continue working on this electoral law, and finally, in the transitional provisions, make a commitment that if the draft is completed before the procedure in the congregations, remember that this will last, here is the election, the constitution, there will be no agenda until January, absolutely, under the most optimistic scenario. So, in the transitional provision, it is defined as an obligation to take any changes to the entity's constitutions in the permanent electoral law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6838	Ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, appreciate every attempt to move in any aspect, a cube that goes, which is called BiH, forwards, but I have to tell you something that is, in the end, even if it is the story of waiting. Namely, the report from this task force says. College of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in accordance with established criteria and proposals submitted, I will say 194 directly. I, as an MP in this house and president of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives, did not know that this task force was formed. No Niko gave me the criteria, and no one asked me for suggestions. I'll say it very directly. In a comment I made for “Free Bosnia”, I said that this was a working group that was supposed to repair the material position of some members of the working group, without any real basis for forming it. The position of the Office of the High Representative is not, although he is very precise, but, please, I am not one of those who will applaud every sentence of the Office of the High Representative. This task force is formed so that there is no solution. Please, gentlemen, by what criteria is Mr. Ivan Bender a member of the task force? Who suggested it and who agreed? And why is he in the task force? Perhaps the criteria of membership in the working group for the permanent election law were its active rejection of the idea of the equality of the people throughout BiH, during the first debate of the Constitutional Court in Banja Luka. It was the criteria for someone to suggest it, and ultimately, more precisely than my colleague Ibrahim Spahić. It is hypocritical of the members of the working group to write, the task force believes that the entity assemblies should approach those constitutional changes as soon as possible, and that today, on a proposal to approach constitutional changes of entities, they vote against the proposal, said Mr Ibrahim Spahić, but also I very precisely, and within 30 seconds. So that's what I want to say about this proposal and I don't think, of course, that with this working group, in this way of forming a working group, in this situation, we have any chance of getting to the motion of a permanent electoral law. Our fundamental problem remains the one that Mr Prlić told us, the lack of an elementary awareness about it and the desire to function BiH institutions, that the BiH state feels all of us as its own country, that we are promoting it in its fundamental interests which mean, among other things, and the conditions for entry into the WE and I will say very directly, there are those in this working group who are doing everything against being no state of BiH, or that there is never a proposal for this election law. I say it very directly, and whoever agreed to it, I don't know. I know no one consulted me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6839	As a member of the task force, there is Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6840	Mr. Kadić, you don't need emotions, you can do without them.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6841	Just don't teach me don't need emotions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6842	Well, when a man has no arguments, he raises his voice, that's what you've done now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6843	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6844	Mr. Kadić, please. 195
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6845	The fact that an MP is trying to undermine the right of the Kolegijum to form a working group for tasks of its jurisdiction. You have no right to do that, MP, and you're making it impossible for one legal authority to work. You can express your disagreement with what you get from this task force, or the College, because the task force will not propose, but we propose to the College and propose to Parliament. So you have no right to do it that way. Next, here, let's say, Mr. Kadić often refers to laws that are imposed, etc. Here I, as a member of the task force, accept the whole text made by the expert group of this draft election law, as a whole I accept. Do you accept, Mr. Kadić? That law that made an expert group in general as a draft I accept this moment and I vote for that draft, and now it doesn't make sense, and it makes sense what you call it, gentlemen, please let me finish when it's over, and it makes sense to talk about the text of the law on an anthem, about the coat of arms, about the flag, about the border service, that makes sense, and there's no point in me accepting what I want. Ibro, it's gonna be a little harder for you to understand, but it's not hard. I, therefore, accept that, and I have accepted that with the task force we agree on everything where others disagree and we are close to a solution and, please, you can't, gentlemen, judge in advance whether the task force will come or will not come to a solution, then you know where it won't come. Then you're instructing someone, one of the task force not to come. I think he will and I believe he will and I believe he should, and I ask you not to give the task force advances and convictions, we need to work to see what happens.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6846	The replica has Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6847	This is a replica with pleasure. If Mr. Banjac, as a member of the College, has found himself named for the composition of the task force in which Mr. Ivan Bender is in, then I am pleased that my reaction has been achieved.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6848	Bender's not a member of the task force at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6849	That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. Banjac, you say you accept what you've come to. We don't have what you came for, please. So you can't even ask me if I agree with that, that's one very, I'd say, irrelevant political game at this point. Thirdly, what you agreed on, if your report says that the following issues remain open, the way you register and actively voter rights are avoided and displaced. What should be governed by the BiH Election Law, and what is the entity's electoral laws. A preferential voting system, for the election of members of the BiH presidency and for the election of delegates for the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH. Please, 196 gentlemen, the big questions remain on the agenda. Therefore, you did not agree on some law, which you ask me to support. Meanwhile, the OSCE has solved one of the dilemmas, a choice in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, and I would say, and I would repeat very directly. It is strange that the working group finds it necessary to amend the entity's constitutions in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, while members of the working group today vote against. And when it comes to emotions, I must say that there may be those in this room who are coldly accepting the fact that this parliament is inefficient, infunctional, that BiH institutions are not doing well and that the fact that, as Mr Prlić said, is a key point why we cannot take a step forward towards European integration. Maybe someone is glad it's so cold, it's cynical to accept it, but unlike those, I love my country, I love BiH, and I don't care if it's gonna tap in place and if it's going to be over Yugoslavia, or Serbia, Belarus and if we're going to stay on the turn of events and hopefully, Mr. Banjac, that you'll see it, and everyone else who listens to me now, that we have to go to a BiH where we won't look forward to when it doesn't adopt something, but we'll be glad when we take a step forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6850	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić. Mr. Spahić has his word. Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6851	I would like Mr. Banjac, Mr. Chairman, to draw attention that I once served Jung, and I could use some other authorities, for example. Freud, but I don't really have the nerve to deal with it right now, but I'd say something else. I never realized that someone could offer arguments to the unseen, especially when it comes to laws that are of such strategic importance. Therefore, I call on you, as a task force of the College or the Council of Ministers of BiH, to deliver to Members today, during the day, this session, the Secretariat delivers the draft, foremark or working material you work on and called the electoral law. I insist that MPs, since it is about the document they are about to adopt, not to be imposed on them, that MPs who need to know what it is, when you are calling on that document, to get these papers, because they cannot be guaranteed neither Mr Divković's conclusion nor the debate on this point that you have imposed, because it is not asked of anyone, and it is good that you do so, to appear before parlament, give us that document, as Mr Banjac often asks for stenograms. In this case, this exceeds the importance of a stenogram and of a crucial debate over nothing. So I demand the task force, as an MP, and I hope that others will be interested, to see that phenomenal document behind which you have stood so well. I didn't mention to you that you didn't react, like the College, at the time you were chairman. I have asked you, very precisely, the simplest conclusion, and I hope that Parliament will accept it, if it can't, according to the Rules of Procedure, any document that is in the procedure or which is public or concerning the role and work of MPs, whether it is owned by the BiH Presidency, unless it is a state secret, by the Council of Ministers of BiH or by some working body of the BiH Parliament, has the right to do so. I demand that I receive, and if the other MPs want, and I believe they will, I will get that one fifth or tenth draft text. I demand we get that text and then see where we're going with this group. 197 As far as Mr. Banjac's reaction to this task force is concerned, I remember the conversations we had before. Mr. Banjac, you use every opportunity to try to show yourself practically, in a way, as a man who decides Bog's fate and asks who and how. I just want to warn you that you are an MP of a political party and a group and that you have an obligation to present to this home the result of your work to which you call and seek this document. Conclusion, please document the task force.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6852	Okay, Mrs. Rađević has a replica, so Mrs. Ana Havel has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6853	It's a replica to Mr. Kadić. Mr. Kadić, I'm glad you're looking forward to BiH, which makes you happy. I'd like to look forward to it and be nice in it. Unfortunately, as a consequence of what you and the likes of you are doing to me in BiH, in which you are removing entities, it is neither beautiful nor happy, but it does not matter, I am just one human being, but it is tragic that this is the way the vast number of people in BiH thinks. That's tragic. If only I thought that, after all, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6854	Thank you very much. Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6855	I'm not prone to replicas, you know that very well, but Mr. Kadić, indeed, deserves to look back at his discussion. In fact, the ironic mention of Mr. Ivan Bender's name isn't really necessary in this place. Mr. Ivan Bender is an honorable man, a worthy man, a person the good part of the people loves. If someone doesn't love him, it's his problem, but he didn't deserve to be mentioned here in that way by his name. Otherwise, of course we're all for BiH. Don't let anyone tell me I didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6856	Mr. Kadić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6857	We could replicate for days. However, I did not challenge the right of the College to form a task force, but in the way the College did, the composition of the task force was obviously designed not to reach a solution. You, Mrs. Havel, can think of Mr. Ivan Bender as you wish, but I think it's a humiliation for this parliament to be a member of this Parliament, or this college to prepare a permanent election law. Thank you. 198
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6858	Thank you very much. We've received a work group report here, you've received materials in front of you, and I think we've exhausted this agenda point. Moving on to
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6859	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6860	Thank you very much, we can't open the debate, we're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The II Faculty Protocol through the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, aimed at abolishing the death penalty I am opening a debate on item 4 of the agenda. Here you go. Does anyone have a discussion? There isn't. Who's in? I'm asking everyone. Who's against it? I'm asking everything? By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 25 present, 16 voted in favour. From the Federation of BiH 15 for – from RS 5 for. Therefore, this report has not been adopted. Please, this is about the lapus of my service. So this report was adopted, though. Excuse me, please. The deal. Moving to point 5. Ad.5. A development loan agreement for the education sector between BiH and the International Association for the Development of the World Bank I put an end to the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6861	Parliament's role in this and the next item of the agenda is to give or not give consent to ratification. I speak loudly, I can't speak louder. I say the role of Parliament is to give consent to the ratification of the World Bank's Agreement on Development Loans. However, I think we're doing the wrong thing, because we already don't know which time, once again, we had a little more than half a year of debate just like this about loans, that we didn't get the data, except for the scrupulous agreement and the BiH presidency's stance, that is, the BiH Presidency's decision to accept the agreement. We have agreed, as Parliament, that we will regularly receive information about BiH's responsibility. One such piece of information was supposed to come in July. Since that information has not arrived, as Parliament, we have no insight into the current situation, only if we do not take what we last discussed, so I think, if we have not already received information from the Council of 199 BiH Ministers, and if we have not put that information on the agenda, then, together with these proposals on the acceptance of the agreement, these data on BiH's responsibility should be, in order to be responsible, as a Parliament that gives consent to new borrowing, referred to this matter. We don't have that. I guess the BiH presidency had that kind of information. I can't believe they just made a decision about taking the deal, without seeing what it means, that's the first thing. Secondly, I'm going to talk about both of these agreements, the fifth and sixth points, so I don't go out again, because, let me put it this way, we're taking a similar commitment. We give consent to ratification. I must say that one of these agreements accepts a loan of about 11 million dollars, 8 million SDRs for education, and in another employment loan, i.e., I would say, creating conditions for retraining or supporting demobilised soldiers for employment. The second is about $15 million, I'm talking in dollars, because we're closer to this number between $15 million and $16 million. Those aren't little numbers. So we here give consent to the borrowing of BiH 15 plus 11 million dollars, that's one thing, so we'd have to have a little bit more information, and secondly, these agreements make certain commitments, except for the repayment of the loan. I'm not going to talk about going back now, because credits have a grace period of up to 10 years, so budget commitments come after 10 years, but they're not small. The loan will be returned for 25 years. But in the very text of the Agreement, you have the obligation not to provide 100% of the amount of the funds for certain categories listed in the Agreement, the IDA, or the World Bank, but to provide about 90%, and somewhere 60%, it is different that I do not now specify these certain parts of the Agreement. Please, when contracts are concluded, when the loan is started, they must have 100% of the funds, otherwise, according to those who make contracts with those who have taken the loan and who will implement it, they are created according to the contractors, according to those who will implement the loan, creating commitments. I'm saying this from experience, because I have a similar case, that it's not 100% funded World Bank loans, but 90%. The works have been completed long ago, and the difference in funds has not yet been met, i.e. the obligations towards performers have not been met. I think, as a state, when we make commitments, we have to organize ourselves to follow those obligations. I'm saying this because the loan is then divided into two entities and it remains an obligation for entities to carry out these obligations, but if we, as a BiH state, appear as those who give consent to the loan, then I think we should also approach these obligations responsibly. I therefore suggest that the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with first regularly monitoring the implementation of these loans and co-ordinating timely activities with entities to implement their commitments to implement these agreements. It's the end of our term. I know we can't put this back on the agenda, but I don't think we should be allowed to talk about these agreements without the more detailed data on the debt and the way we're going to carry out our obligations under the Agreement and what these commitments mean for the BiH budget, or for those who pay it back.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6862	Thank you very much. Mr. Špirić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6863	Mr. Chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, I think colleague Muminagić is absolutely right. I think that some state authorities are so unseriously approaching BiH's task issues that it's over for not believing it. I think the international community may be investing too much attention to what is called BiH's development, but there is no adequate response from BiH. I think the BiH presidency doesn't have enough teams to follow this issue, as does the Council of Ministers, but for me, it's very important, for the country in which we live, that any new credit debt must contribute to the growth of the state's wealth, that other people or citizens feel it. We have an increase in the level of BiH's debt, which does not follow this degree I'm talking about for reasons that no one has ever calculated what it means to be in charge on one, second, third segment. It is clear that representatives of the international community, including the financial association, are, above all, regulating infrastructure in order to get into more serious economic reforms and that these economic reforms, above all, we must give a tone and I think that these problems of new responsibilities must be approached in a much more serious way. It's illogical for us to enter a ratification agreement without having an answer to this question that I'm asking. How much of each new credit or any new credit debt does BiH contribute to the growth of the social product at the state level, i.e. how much will it be in the function of the growth of well-being and economic status of every BiH citizen? We have no such response so far and I am not convinced that we have a valid information base on all lines of duty, including donations at the level of the BiH state. That's why I think this one needs a much more serious approach. Sometimes it's not unserious, you see, and return some document to make certain structures serious. No, therefore, we are not grateful to all those who want to financially help BiH on various projects, but I think that the domestic establishment, which observes, should be taken seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6864	Thank you very much. Minister Kurtović.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6865	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I must first start with one fact, because this has often, and in particular has been updated over the past few months, the issue of BiH's responsibility. I'm very surprised that people are trying to make a fetish secret of it, or probably a little burdened with the previous system, when all the data, information of that kind, was very hidden and kept from someone. I must say that the issue of BiH's responsibility was one of the tasks that the international community has set for us as part of our admission into international financial institutions, primarily the IMF and the World Bank, and in that sense, clearly defined obligations and BiH, as well as international financial institutions. I will not say the most orderly, but there is one of the most regulated systems of monitoring BiH's debt, information about it has been established with support and with people from the international community. In particular, our information on the debt has been verified by the assistants from JUSTREGORIA, who are still working in our ministry, i.e. they are now functionally separated by the Ministry of Treasury more connected to the ministry. The foreign trade and economic relations ministry in this regard has fully established an information system with which the entity governments, i.e. Banja Luka and 201 Sarajevo, the Central Bank and the central unit are fully available at any time. The Ministry of Foreign Trade, in spirit with certain obligations it has, is making very extensive information every half of the year, with 30 June 2000, which knows exactly what loans we inherited from before the war, how much we owed after the war. I would like to ask, once again, for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to bring this information to the public. No need, there's really no need for all MPs not to get acquainted with this. This is available to the Council of Ministers, and this information is provided to the Council of Ministers every half year. That's really why I feel like I need to, I justify the demands of the MPs. This information must be given to the MPs. We need to know how much, how, when and where BiH is in charge. I would really ask, I will now now Muminagić this information and deliver it, unfortunately, since it is not regularly delivered. Why not, I beg you, so, on the Council of Ministers, it was delivered. By procedure, the BiH Council of Ministers is due to deliver MPs, i.e. to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I don't know, I'm not the chairman, I'm sorry he doesn't. The second question, watch out, the loans BiH concludes, are always being made in co-operation, together with entity governments. I must say that certain restrictions, given by the Council, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and constitutional provisions do not allow and do not allow the Council of Ministers, or any of the restoring ministries, to say that the loan is justified or unjust. Therefore, we are one of the institutions that is exposed to abroad and all international experts are negotiating and agreeing on the very best placement of the loan. Each agreement we make is accompanied by a specific description of the project, certain conditions that BiH, or its entities, needs to implement, and other details that each of the classic loans has. Both loans have been fully negotiated in this case, both with the BiH state, which is guaranteed and with governments, i.e. resolute institutions in entities. We have, accordingly, made subsidiary agreements, signed by the entity governments, as well as a letter on development policies that follow these agreements. In practice, exactly what Mrs Muminagić said was that the obligations of entity institutions are not always carried out when it comes to co-financing, i.e. additional financial resources, which we need to provide from our own sources. I'm asking one of the questions of how to secure the mechanism that entities have to comply with those deadlines and those amounts that are foreseen by the project agreement, so I would do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6866	Thank you very much. I hope these things are said for the next point, but, once again, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6867	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I join those who feel that BiH's responsibility should be transparent and indeed have to deliver the materials, primarily to you MPs and all other relevant factors in BiH, and I think that you should definitely and financially responsibility when we talk about duty. 202 But I would like to say, first of all, for this loan on the development loan for the education sector, I will try, then, as an MP Ibrahim.(?) Under the BiH presidency's decision, the ministry of civil affairs and communication has been authorised to sign an agreement on a development loan for the area of education. This is what the ministry, i.e., I, as minister, on behalf of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications did, and you from the materials you received can see other details. I just want to say that it would really be necessary to ratify this agreement for the reasons that the development loan for the education sector provides for three global objectives and four components, so to speak, from primary to higher education, to research, in the social sense, what and how much poverty affects the education sector. If you would accept ratification today, it would really mean a lot, that in BiH, when we talk about a series of duties that we had, we would certainly affirm education, because first of all, we need one human potential, both in the state bodies and in the economy that is in such a difficult situation, and thus we would create real assumptions that education is affirmative in the best way. This I think is a safe way to make the funds really, in the best way of affirming and that the best investment in BiH is in education, I am deeply convinced, so I ask you to respect it and that it would be a good one agreement that should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6868	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6869	Ladies and gentlemen, in one general conclusion, I wanted to be clear. What's important for the state is whether the level of debt that rises, monitors the level of growth of general social well-being or the level of poverty rises. Whether it is, it is not even illogical that the international community insists on valorising the use of funds here. Are we in a situation where the level of duty follows the level of poverty growth in BiH or not? This country must have an active response. I don't have an answer or yes or no. But I think there must be an active role, in that sense, in the location of the funds and in these preparatory actions that we're in charge of. Surely the international financial institution will invest where their funds will be returned. They won't invest in projects that won't bring at least a minimum profit. But are we in a position to even dislocation, that is, the location of those funds in the best possible way, with clear priority projects at BiH level, as a state, and its entities. In that sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6870	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Mr. Dokić, who answered?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6871	Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment of attention, we all expected to satisfy one form through these points. But if you think a little bit better about previous interventions and look at this material, then you can see that this is not a form. I, as a man who's spent all his working life in education, may well be funny, to think that this kind of project for education is not accepted at all. But I ask the question. Do things like surveying to measure the standard of life, then information system for education management, what this information system and governance means to Bog, and ask you, standards and evaluation agency, etc. Is there any right to be in charge of the loan, please? These are things that had to go through the Tempus Program and the PAR program, specially designed for higher education, these are donor funds. Is that used? We're so in debt right now. Who's gonna pay it back? Is this really more necessary? These are the reasons why I, unfortunately, will have to be abstention, regardless of how I welcomed the news on the means of informing that there will be some additional funding for education in BiH, but if this is going to go for this, I am against borrowing, because it is certain that there are many more things in BiH and in education BiH than is written here in this agreement. I'm responsibly saying, as it's written here, this was designed to get someone a project. Maybe I'll get one of those projects, too. Is BiH needed, and the result will be paper, do we now need such loans in this situation? If you can get donations for these purposes, I'll vote with both hands.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6872	Mr. Chairman, I, first of all, did not enter into the essence of the loan, perhaps the answers could be given to you by the entity ministers of education, etc. But don't let us be surprised when the standards in education say. That is what we need, Mr Dokić, and at a time when we could get it for free, we've been here pushing inate through the Parliamentary Assembly, and you know well, and I'm here older, present for two and a half years, almost three, on the Tempus Programme, we didn't want to plead, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I know that the MP Lagumdžija intervened then and that there was a better debate. Of course, when we haven't used a part of the donor, then we have to use a part of the credit and that's a favourable credit, this is a non-payment loan. But, look, we have one problem. There are standards of education everywhere in the world. We, unfortunately, because of our specificity, have full local standards, we don't even have harmonised at BiH level, so we have each of our own basic, medium, high, postgraduate studies are absolutely unequal, and then when we further expose ourselves to abroad, then we realize that we may actually be prisoners of some ideas that were 30 or more years ago. So I want to tell you, don't be surprised that it's going to cost us a lot of ours, in a sense, brake development that takes a little longer than we think. We're gonna have to, unfortunately, I'm telling you, pay for it on behalf of, and I keep saying it, for future generations. The project, among other things, is one of the projects that should be trained in BiH to bring us closer to where our goal is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6873	Mr. Spahić, then I think we've exhausted the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6874	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of those objectives set out in these two documents, I would like to support the ratification of both agreements, so as not to report again on 5th and 6th, as Mrs. Muminagić. I thank Mr Kurtović for having decided to make information available to us and asking that it be really available to everyone, to all MPs immediately. It can't be that there's one minister, one chairman, one MP, there's no reason, because you won't get anything in the next period if there's any MP, and the others don't. So, I'm asking you to deliver it to everyone. That if you could do it once, then you could do it to everyone. Secondly, as regards the education sector and the employment sector. As Mr Kurtović noted, and I remember this debate, it is not only guided by the principles of using different forms in Europe, but also by the envisaged Tempus, etc., but also by the following question. Can BiH and must be implemented exclusively in its arrangements for the world through entities this way? So my only position is if the BiH state guarantees and ratifys such contracts, then the BiH state in the BiH Council of Ministers must have adequate forms of organisation. It can't be the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Civil Affairs, and we can't handle each other from chance to chance. Bosnia and Herzegovina, the two agreements, which are not so large, significant, clearly show that the goals of work and employment and education objectives are standardised and modern, but clearly see two key ministries, or three, for economic and economic development, are missing, the second for work and employment and the third for education and science. It seems to me that our dear Professor Dokić, who has called for his experience, has gone now, has not compared these two credit arrangements with what is called the White Book, in which it is foreseen, and we have sworn, as we swore to enter the Council of Europe, in the White Book. Many have participated in the promotions here, in this White Paper, practically, all of these instruments listed here as objectives are elements for joining the European Union. Therefore, this is bypass and it is a thin bypass for something we do and I welcome these documents, but I also want to welcome the change of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6875	Thank you very much. I think we've exhausted this debate. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in favor of accepting this agreement? We don't have a quorum, unfortunately. Do we have a quorum now? - 22, we're voting important things, but what's done is done. Who's in favor of accepting this agreement? Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Please, just let me make the announcement. From the 22 - 17 present, it voted in favour. According to entities, from the Federation of BiH, 14 voted in favour – from RS, 3 voted in favour. According to these results, this law, i.e. this agreement, is going to be agreed upon. Any objections to the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6876	I have no objection to the vote, of course, the vote was held in the Rules of Procedure, etc., but I think it is two important projects and I think the result will be agreed, and that this alignment should be carried out in 5-6 minutes to complete this, because I think that, no matter how critical we are saying about projects financed through international financial institutions, I think it is two significant projects and that the users of these funds will resent us if we do not support and ratify it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6877	We're taking a 15-minute break. We've got a quorum, we can keep working. [[PAUZA]] The word is Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6878	Ladies and gentlemen, since it is two major projects, supported by international financial institutions, we remain the only option for us to voice doubt in the way of voting and counting, we suggest that the vote be repeated, that it be verified, in fact, to ratify two important agreements, so we ask that the vote be repeated.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6879	So, at the request of Mr Špirić, as representative of this house, I must return to point 5, i.e. to vote on the occasion of point 5. The development loan agreement, which is why I'm asking you, now once again, who's in favour? I'm asking everyone. Who's in? Who's in favour of giving consent to ratifying this agreement? Who's against it, I'm asking everyone? There's no one here. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Do we? Thank you very much. From the RS, I ask who's in favor? Of the 25 present – 20 voted in favour. The Federation of BiH 15 voted in favour – RS 6 voted in favour. Therefore, this item of the agenda, i.e. this agreement, has been adopted. Does anyone have any objections to the vote? Six for it. Yes, it is. We move to the next item of the agenda, which is point 6. Ad.6. The agreement on a loan for the development of a pilot project, the hasty employment of the workforce to new jobs between BiH and the International Development Association, since this point is very similar to that which we have already absorbed, I will not prejudge, but I believe that we have exhausted the debate on this point, but it is your will to declare it, or, please, if anyone has an additional explanation, the reason for the debate, please. Can we close the debate? 206 Who's in favour of this agreement? Who's in? We agree to ratify the Agreement. Who's against it? From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From RS, who's in? Of the 25 present MPs – 23 voted in favour. According to entities, Federation of BiH 15 voted in favour. RS 8 votes were in favour. Therefore, this agreement has also been adopted. We move to the last item of the agenda, which is: Ad.7. Answers to MPs' questions and questions What you have answers you have asked, you have before you. Mr. Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6880	Mr. Chairman, when they brought me back, and I really have some pressing obligations and I have to hurry, though, I couldn't resist without asking a question. My question is the Foreign Ministry. What will it do to stop the illegal transport or crossing of citizens of other countries through BiH and to stop the problems caused by this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6881	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić does.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6882	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask, officially, to find out. Has the BiH Council of Ministers considered Mr Kurtović's interpretation of the economic and social policy? I got information in the media that that's how it is. I'd like to get an official response right away. If we can, I don't need a written answer. Can I have an answer? Whether the BiH Council of Ministers was on the agenda, officially to be heard, not at the next session, there is a minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6883	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6884	Okay, I'm happy with that answer. The second question, just allow me, I have two questions. I agree for the first time that, please, as an MP and as a man who is together with you MPs in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, together with the College, both colleges, has endured for a year and a half on a project that is important for BiH, it is an economic and social strategy of BiH in 2000-2004, that we have received the first time official information that the Council of Ministers of BiH has finally dealt with this problem and I hope that, within the legal deadline set, Rule 207 will be on the agenda of this Parliament. I think we have enough time until the end of this term. Secondly, it's a finding. I asked Mrs. Turković for Biser answer. What did Mrs Bisera Turković, as Minister for European Integration, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, do to receive an official, written response, all MPs, from the areas of European integration and the Stability Pact, from three round tables, economies, security and human rights? Since we haven't received that answer by now, and it's been more than two months, I want to ask another additional question. Does the BiH Council of Ministers or the BiH Presidency intend to finally establish a co-ordination body to monitor the implementation of the Stability Pact decisions regarding those decisions we made in Sarajevo and later on at round tables? And finally, Mr. Skopljak, I want to ask. Did Mr Skopljak and the Kolegijum accept and sign the application to join the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the Alliance of our Parliament? After meeting with the NATO parliamentary delegation to the Alliance in Sarajevo and representatives of this parliament, it was an initiative that I unveiled at our parliament. I wonder if a formal request for BiH's accession to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has been made or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6885	I'll answer right now. I forwarded all our conclusions to the services and therefore acted according to agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6886	So, is it directed or not?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6887	It hasn't been directed formally yet, but I think that...
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6888	I ask on behalf of this House that Mr. Skopljak finally sign, because it has been going on for months. In November, it is decided whether BiH will receive its initial status in NATO's Parliamentary Assembly, which is observer status. If we'd done it a year or two ago today, we could have been like other countries in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6889	Here, I'll sign that document if I have it on the table, Mrs. Branka. Mr. Deretić, are you answering your word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6890	The chairman, I would first conclude that at the 9th month of last year I put two questions here before parliament. To this day I have not received an answer, so I ask you to urinate there in the professional service to get that answer to both my questions by Wednesday. Secondly, I'm interested, I'm going to ask two MPs questions. First of all, I am interested in the period of time, so who, and when, on behalf of BiH, filed an action against the International Court of Justice against the SRJ, who, if signed this suit in front of the RS and the Serb people, as one of the three constituent peoples in BiH? That's one of my questions for MPs and another question. The same issue concerns the issue of succession, which is under way before the UN. When it comes to former SFRY property, who in front of BiH and when, together with Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia, raised the issue, or who gave consent to the RS and Serbian people to launch this issue before the UN?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6891	Thank you very much. Mr. Raščić, Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6892	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, concerning the issue of Mr. Dokić, I would only like to launch an initiative, if possible, because of these illegal crossings, that the Council of Ministers hastens or tries to establish a border service on BiH territory, i.e. at its borders. There are more airports, there are also in Banja Luka airport, and they come from countries with which they have better relations than with our country as a whole. Therefore, in order to prevent illegal entry and exits, I think it would be good if the Council of Ministers launched the initiative and contributed to the faster establishment of a border service on BiH territory. That's one. Secondly, I would ask, concerning the initiative proposed and adopted here, concerning the collection of the BiH state's income at all levels, I am interested in how far this initiative has come in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6893	Thank you very much. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6894	I also proposed the agenda on the implementation of the return, namely Annex 7 to BiH, through the Service, or Secretariat. It hasn't been put on the agenda yet. Why and will it be? We got something in the form of information, however, it seems to me that it is not satisfactory and to see what we are planning to do on this matter to be better quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6895	It's a new moment. If you're not satisfied, it should be directed to the services, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6896	But in the program, he's nowhere in the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6897	Come on, advertise that you're not happy with it, so we'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6898	Well, here, I'm advertising now.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-08-29-0.u6899	Okay, here we go to the service. Please don't go yet. I've only got one memo to read to you, very brief. "Respected gentlemen, during a session of the BiH presidency, scheduled for Saturday 14 October 2000, a regular shift from the BiH presidency will be carried out. This is where Mr Živko Radišić, a member of the BiH presidency, will take over. In line with my earlier resignation, that day I withdraw from my post as BiH presidency member before the term of office expires. In accordance with the Law on the fill-in of the vacancy of the BiH presidency and the decision of the High Representative to amend and supplement that law, the vacancy will be filled on a provisional basis by Dr. Halid Genjac, deputy chairman of the high house, which was elected in the Federation of BiH territory, is Bošnjak by nationality. Notifying you about this, I want to thank you for your current cooperation and to wish you a lot of success in your work." I also thank you for your cooperation and I am finishing this, Mr. Alija Izetbegović in the signing, not to forget. The seat is closed at 1550 hours.
