ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3106	Can we get started? Members, distinguished guests, I inform those present at today's session, the constitutive session, of 42 who count membership in this House, are present at 33. 25 from the Federation of MPs and 8 from RS. So we have a quorum and we can work today. I am opening the first constitutional session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In accordance with Article 2(2), The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, this session was convened by the College of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives of the House of Representatives, and, in accordance with point 3 of the same session, is chaired by the oldest member of the newly elected assembly, as temporary chairman, until he is elected, of course, chairman of the House. Thanks to my age, ladies and gentlemen, the honor has fallen to me and my name is for those who do not know me Muhamed Begović from Tuzla. I use this opportunity to greet all MPs and give you congratulations on your choice. I also congratulate and thank the voters for the democratic definition in the past elections for the election of members of this high house. I also thank the Interim Election Commission, which has made efforts to find democratic methods to conduct these general elections. I am honored to welcome the distinguished guests of this session, and this is a member of the BiH presidency, Mr Halid Genjac, the first deputy high representative for BiH, Mr Ralf Džonson, with his associates, of course. I also warmly welcome the adviser and deputy head of the SR Embassy of Germany, Dr Lingentman, I apologize, thank the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I welcome other guests who follow the work of this high house. Also, I welcome the means of information. Dear gentlemen, given that the newly elected MPs are taking up parliamentary duty by giving a solemn statement, as prescribed in Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I will now read the list of elected MPs to this house, as the Interim Election Commission has delivered to us. After that, we'll make a solemn statement together. Allow me to read the MPs, elected MPs to this solemn home. The list of elected MPs is the following from the Federation of BiH 1.. Šarganović Senad 2.. Lagumdžija Zlatko 3.. Bogić Bogićić 4.. Imamović Muharem 2 5.. Filipović Omer 6.. Avdić Sead 7.. Kušljugić Mirza 8.. Kamberović Violeta SDA 1.. Borić Adem 2.. Buturović Sead 3.. Mašović Amor 4.. Neimarlija Hilmo 5.Brka The Osman 6.. Vilić Ramiz 7.. Kulenović Salih HDZ 1.. Baković Mirko 2.. Ljubić Mariofil 3.. Grab-Grabovac-Titan-Miro 4.. Vukić Zdenko 5.. andrić-lužanski-Lužanski Ivo SBiH 1.. Belkić Beriz 2.. Filipović Mediha, who is not present today 3.. Kulović Hamdija 4.. Begović Muhamed NHI 1.. Lozančić Ivo DSPBiH 1.. Osmanović Bahri DNZ 1.. Đedović Ibrahim, who is justly absent, has writtenly announced that he is not attending the BPS 1. session today. Mehtić Halil from RS SDS 1.. Banjac Mirko 2.. Kovačević Ljubomir 3.. Spasojević Zoran 4.. Tošić Momir 5.. Jovanović Miloš 6.. Mijatović Mirko 3 PDP 1.. Dokić Branko 2.. Stokić Dušan SNS 1.. Lolić Branislav SPRS 1.. Gligorić Tihomir koalicija SNSDFBSP 1.. Mirjanić Željko SDA 1.. Malkić Abdurahman SDP BiH 1.. Stanimirović drag SBiH 1.. Šašivarević Nedžad vi are gentlemen MPs, received from the Office text of the solemn statement, I ask that, after giving the solemn statement, you all sign the same and deliver it to this service. I pray we all make a solemn statement together.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3107	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with. Respect the BiH Constitution. Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. Protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. I congratulate you on making a solemn statement. Dear Members of the Parliament, as we have all made a solemn statement, we can now do our parliamentary duty. It is my duty to introduce you, that in preparation for this session, three consultation meetings of the Colleges of this House of the So far convened, with representatives of the political parties, whose MPs were elected to this House in the general elections. At these meetings, it was agreed that the election of the chairman, then the first vice-president and second vice-president, would be carried out at this session. Therefore, in line with the agreement at those meetings, I propose for today's session to adopt the next agenda. One is the point of the agenda and one is the point of the agenda. The election of the chairman, then the vice-president, the first vice-president and second vice-president of the House of Representatives. 4 Since such a proposal for the agenda has been agreed, in consultation meetings, I do not think there is a need for discussion on the agenda proposal, I underline, on the agenda proposal. Do you agree with this proposal, please, to plead with the acclaim? I'm sorry, it's hand-lifting.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3108	Thirty-six for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3109	It's 36 for the vote. Do you mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. Thank you very much. I find most of the votes, the agenda accepted. Since such a proposal for the agenda has been agreed, etc., at consulting meetings, we said there was no need and I thank you for the definition of this agenda. And if you gentlemen have received the text of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, let me remind you before the vote, however, of the provisions of Article 64. Rules of Procedure. It's part of our 64th Rules of Procedure. Decisions are made in the House by the majority of the votes of the MPs, who are present and who vote. The abstentions are listed in the quorum and are not added to the votes that are in favour, i.e. which are against. MPs will make the most of their efforts to include at least one third of the MPs from the territory of each entity. Item two, in all cases the sum of votes shall be the same as the quorum prescribed in Rule 52(2) of the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 52(2). The Rules of Procedure, the quorum consists of 22 MPs, with at least one third of the MPs from each entity present. We have established by counting, given that 39 MPs attend the session, we will determine that the conditions for voting have been met. I realise that there are 39 MPs present in the session and that we really have conditions for making full decisions. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the agenda proposal to the vote, as I put it forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3110	Unfortunately, we voted before – 36 is for. It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3111	Please conduct a vote on entities as well. Now we've voted in total, and now we have to vote on entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3112	He doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3113	Do you agree that we vote on entities? Thank you very much. We're moving on to work, on the adopted agenda. Allow me, gentlemen, to remind you of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the selection of the 5 Houses, i.e. the chairperson, and the first vice-president and second vice-president. Point 1 of Article 4. The rules of procedure of this house are prescribed that the House elects one Srbin, one Bošnjak and one Hrvat from its ranks, who will perform the duties of the chairman, then the first deputy chairman, then the second deputy chairman. The chairman cannot be elected from the same constituent people as the chairman of the BiH presidency and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. These two functions are not compatible with the House's leadership election. I should remind you here that he is now in office of the BiH Srbin presidency, which took office on October 12th. And the rotation takes place after eight months. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is the Hrvat, who was appointed to the post, appointed on 18 October, as you know. Therefore, now in office of the chairman of the House of Representatives, we should elect Bošnjak, the first deputy chairman of the Srbin presidency and the second deputy chairman of this Hrvat home. Point 2 of Article 4 The Rules of Procedure stipulates that every MP has the right to propose candidates for these duties. If there are more candidates for one place, the order of candidates will be determined by drawing. Once a list of candidates for each place has been established, it shall access the vote. According to paragraph 3 of the same article, in the first round of voting, the first vote for the chairman, then for the first vice-president, and for the second vice-president of the House, and in the second round in reverse, is for the second vice-president, for the first vice-president and for the chairman. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 reads: if from more candidates for one place, no candidate has received a full majority, the vote is repeated for the two candidates who received the most votes. Paragraph 5 of Article 4 reads: the choice decision is taken on the principle of the majority for decision-making, with representatives of the political parties represented in the House, and if the consensus fails, the vote is repeated. Paragraph 6 of Article 4 reads: if no candidate has received the required majority, the vote is fully repeated. I ask the MPs to present a proposal for a candidate for home leadership. Please, who's answering for the word? Mr Bogić Bogićević, MP Biogić Bogićević from SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3114	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, I warmly welcome you on behalf of the SDP and I have the honour, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, for the chairman of the House of Representatives, to propose to Dr Sead Avdić, SDP Vice President and MPs in this House. Dr. Sead Avdić was born on 2 May 1944 in Gracanica in BiH, according to his nationality, Bošnjak, the Faculty of Engineering graduated in Belgrade in '69, the Master's thesis and doctoral dissertation defended at the Faculty of Engineering and Shipbuilding in Zagreb, the Republic of Croatia. After the first multilateral elections, he was elected president of the Tuzla Municipality's Executive Board, and after '94, 6 for the Mayor of Tuzla. He was an MP in Tuzlani Canton and the House of the Peoples of the Federation of BiH Parliament. He lives and works in Tuzla, as a regular professor at the University of Tuzla Engineering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3115	Excuse me, one break, I apologize, it is my duty to welcome our BiH Presidency chairman, Mr Živko Radišić, to arrive a little later. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is my duty on behalf of the HDZ Club to request a 15-minute break in order to prepare the candidacy in a quality way, the HDZ candidate. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3117	I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. A total of 40 MPs attend the session, not 39, as one MP arrived in the meantime. [[PAUZA]] Before we go to work, allow me to inform you and welcome to Mr. Representatives of the British Embassy, representatives of the US Embassy, the French Embassy and representatives of the Italian Embassy, thank you very much. We're going to work. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Ramiz Vilić, excuse me, lužanski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3118	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, as the winner of the previous elections within the Croatian Corps, we believe that we have legal and legitimate right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representative for the second deputy chairman, to propose Mr. Mariofil Ljubić. Mr. Mariofil Ljubić was born on 21 February 1957 in Uzurići, Široki Brijeg. Primary school graduated from Uzurici, a high school in Mostar, and a law school in Sarajevo. He also passed a judicial exam in Sarajevo. Since the 1990s, he has acted as a representative in the BiH Assembly. Member of the BiH presidency, president of the Federation of BiH Constitutional Assembly, chairman of the Federation of BiH House of Peoples, and deputy chairman of the Federation of BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. In the previous elections, he was elected representative of the zapadno-Hercegovački-Herzegovica and Herzegovina-Neretva County constituency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3119	Thank you very much. So we have a proposal for another deputy Mr. Mariofil Ljubić. Word has Ramiz Vilić, an MP on the SDA list. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3120	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, honored guests, on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action, we propose Mr. Adem Borić as chairman. Mr. Adem Borić was born in 1948. The Faculty of Law graduated from Sarajevo, specialising in international law. Since May of '95, he has chaired the UN-San canton Assembly. He was a member of the Federation of BiH Parliament, in the House of Nations from '96 to '98. A year. A member of the party's presidency, a member of the main committee and on several occasions the chairman of the SDA cantonal committee, the Party of Democratic Action.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3121	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Please introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3122	Dear guests, I would like to propose on behalf of the Party of the Democratic Progress of Republika Srpska for the first replacement of the chairman of the House of Representatives, Professor Željko Mirjanić. Professor Mirjanić was born in 1959 in Banja Luka. He's a professor at the Faculty of Law in Banja Luka. He's married, father of two children. So far he has performed several significant functions, in two terms he was an MP at the National Assembly of the RS. He was also a member of the Legislative Commission, he was also an adviser to the BiH presidency. He is currently a member of the Party Presidency, the Democratic-Socialist Party in Banja Luka.. That's enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3123	Any other suggestions? Thank you very much. I'd be begging the MPs when they come out to introduce themselves, because we don't know each other yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3124	I welcome all those present on behalf of the Serbian People's Union, the party of the independent social Democrats and the democratic Socialist Party, and I support the proposal to propose Mr Mirjanić as the first deputy.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3125	Who's on the phone? Violeta.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3126	I would like to welcome the esteemed meeting and to present a joint proposal in front of the SDP, the New Croatian Initiative, the Party for BiH, the Democratic Party of Pensioners of BiH and the Bosnian Patriot Party, for the second deputy chairman of Mr Ivo Lozančić's House. Ivo Lozančić, born 2.01.1957 in Žepč. Elementary school ended up in Zeppec. High and high school in Zenica. Married, father of two children. Before the 8th multi-party elections, employed in Zeljezara Zenica, elected to the BiH House of Representatives, in the 1996 elections. The chairman of the Croatian people's House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Member of the Commission for External Relations and the Administrative Commission. He was elected in the 1998 general elections at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Member of the Commission for External Relations and the Administrative Commission. In the 2000 general elections, he was elected to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Selected from the New Croatian Initiative, vice president of the New Croatian Initiative. All these parties also propose Sead Avdić as the chairman of the House, whose candidacy is highlighted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3127	Who's next to the word? Here you go. Momir Tošić, representative of the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3128	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear guests, on behalf of the SDS, SDS Club, for the first deputy chairman, we propose Spasojevic Zoran Uroš. He was born on 25.9.1960 in Bijeljina, meaning one of the young SDS personnel. The primary and secondary school graduated from Bijeljina, graduated from Pedagogya in Belgrade, married and fathered five children. He lives and works in Bijeljina. As the party that received the most votes and the most trust in RS, we believe that our legitimate right is, at this point, to propose one of our prospective members and we believe that the BiH Parliament will support us in this. He's from Electoral Unit II. The electoral unit that received the most Bijeljina Doboj votes, and I'm counting on our support in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3129	Is anyone else answering? If no one's answering again, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3130	No, can I have a word? We need to figure out who's proposed for these three functions that we've highlighted ahead. The following candidates are proposed for the presidency of the House of Representatives: Sead Abdić and Adem Borić. The first deputy chairman is Željko Mirjanić and Spasojević Zoran. For the second deputy chairman, Mariofil Ljubić and Ivo Lozančić were proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3131	According to the Rules of Procedure, we inform that we must first declare ourselves chair. Dear MPs, we now have candidates for all three places. I'm taking a ten-minute break to prepare the draw. To determine the list of selected candidates, for the chairman, as candidates, allow us to approach the draw.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3132	Candidate number one. Is Dr. Sead Avdić, for the chairman. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3133	I congratulate Dr Sead Avdić on his choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3134	Just on the list.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3135	Ladies and gentlemen, I said candidate, I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3136	The second candidate is, quite naturally, Mr. Adem Borić. First place for first deputy chairman is Professor Dr Željko Mirjanić, MP for the coalition from RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3137	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3138	The second is Zoran Spasojević or we do not have a third candidate, SDS MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3139	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3140	We're going for another deputy. On the list of candidates for another deputy number one is Ivo Lozančić, MP of the NHI. I'll just read the other one, because we don't, it's only two at a time. The second, the candidate is quite naturally Mariofil Ljubić, the HDZ MP, because there is no third.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3141	Thank you very much. I'm taking a break. There's a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3142	Dear MPs, in front of the U.S.A., I'm asking for half an hour's break, for further consultations, and I've been looking for an hour for juma. So I suggest we get back to work at 1:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3143	Since the chairman has to ask for the consent of all present, for such a big break, do you agree in an hour and a half to take a break? A representative of the SDA asked for half an hour, I'm authorized to take half an hour off. After that, we have jujum, I congratulate the Bošnjak on the Bayram holiday, and it is normal that the Bošnjak need to do their duty, our religious duty, and I think we agree that they get a leave of absence watch, so a total of up to 1 and 15, don't you agree? 10 We continue to work. [[PAUZA]] 39 MPs attend the sitting. One is missing, since we have a quorum, we can make a full and valid decision on the selection of candidates for the first chairman and two other deputies. I will now introduce you to the established list of candidates, who are candidates for the first chair, the first vice-president and second vice-president, and in particular that the chairman is in line as we have already declared our candidacy. The first candidate for, as an MP for the House of Representatives, is Mr Avdić Sead, we will declare him. The second candidate is Adem Borić for the same function. The first deputy was appointed candidate Željko Mirjanić and Zoran Spasojević. Another candidate has been identified as Lozančić Ivo and Mariofil Ljubić. Let's approach the vote in this way, in order that the candidacy is determined. I give the word before that to Mr. Borić Adem, it's about voting to let you know, otherwise we don't have any more discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3144	Dear President, members of the Presidency, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, the President-in-Office, I would first and foremost like to thank all of you for allowing us an hour to perform the jam table and immediately say that we in the Party of Democratic Action were expecting, from the Alliance for Change, that our announced programme, both for Parliament and the institutions of BiH, would offer people who would guarantee the implementation of these programmes. The candidates offered, in our conviction, unfortunately do not provide this... so we will vote against Mrs. Lozančić Ivo and Mirjanić Željko, and we have our candidate as chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3145	Thank you very much. Let's approach the vote. First, we plead candidate Avdić Sead. Who wants to raise a hand? I'm asking you to hold back a little longer, so the Professional Service can be defined. Twenty candidates voted for the election of the home's chairman, the candidate. Thank you very much, 20 candidates. We're going for another one, sorry, I'm sorry, she's a little bit disturbed. Whoever's against this choice raises his hand, I'd like to ask. Are there any abstentions? One. Sead Avdić's election against the election as chairman is 19 MPs, one is abstentioned. The abstention doesn't count on these opponents.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3146	We have 40 men, yet 40 are present and voted so much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3147	Do you think we should check it out? If there's any doubt, I'd like to make it clear that we should check it out by calling or voting again. Did you want us to repeat the vote? You're not. Thank you very much. A total of 40 MPs are present for the first candidate, i.e. Sead Avdić voted 20 MPs. I'm sorry, the vote was 19, I apologize, the vote was 19 and one was abstentioned. If there's any reason for the SDS Club, please let it come out and explain the requirements that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3148	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am first of all surprised by the conduct of this session, which leads to situations that do not guarantee the validity of the plea. Secondly, one MP didn't take an oath and he can't vote, that's a fact, because he wasn't present during the meeting, and the other thing, here we can see that there's been a change in the number of conditions.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3149	Ladies and gentlemen, two MPs are not present and have not taken an oath and that is understandable. The one who didn't take the oath, please sign up to do it and get back to work. What MP didn't take an oath? Please, the representative of the SDS needs to explain to us which MP has not taken an oath, and he is present to bring him in to make a solemn statement. Is there an MP like that? We do not accept the SDS's claim, as far as the MPs are concerned, that he is present and has not taken an oath, because there are no arguments. Please don't interrupt. One is a abstentioned candidate. We take very good care of democracy and procedure, Mr. Banjac. You are Mr. Banjac, the initiator on behalf of the Club and I must address you and not the present, it is the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure, perhaps you pleaded for that Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. So, for the first candidate, 20 MPs were declared to be chairman. Against the candidate, 19 MPs came forward and one abstentioned was a voter. Please, nice. Conditions have been created to move to a choice, or statement for another candidate, for the post of chairman, and that is Mr. Borić Adem.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3150	No, no, in the second round, vice versa.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3151	The second round will be, this is the first round, I forgot to say, the first round of voting, please nice, we'll have a second round of voting. I am voting on candidate Borić Adem's role as chairman of the House. 12 Please, who is for this function? Of the 40 MPs present, I would like to make a statement to the candidate, Borić Adem, who is in office as chairman, raise his hand. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, I understand that 13 MPs have declared themselves candidate Borić Adem. Who's against it, raise your hand? Anybody got any abstentions? - One. Of the 40 MPs present, Borić Adem voted 13 - 25 and 1 was abstentioned against the vote. The secretary will call now and we'll see what's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3152	Šarganović Senad – present Lagumdžija Zlatko – present Stanimirović Bogić Sead Bogić – present Imamović Muharem – present Filipović Omer – present Avdić Sead – present Kušljugić Mirza – present Kamberović Violeta – present Borić Kulenović Salih – present Mašović Mirko – present Bukić Mariofil – present Šašivarević Nedžad – present Stokić Dušan – present Mehtić drag – present Tošić Ivo – present Gligorić Mirko – present Filipović Mediha – absent Tihomir-Grabovac-Titan Branislav – present – present Kovačević present Ljubomir Mirić prisujan Šužuć Prisučučuču Mružuić – present Abdurahman Lozančić – Lutanski Ivo – present Belkić Beriz – present – present – presence Banjac Muhamed – absent Begović – Mirjanić Željko presence of Kulović – Titana Mirić – Attana Mirić – Attana Mirić Jovanović Miloš pri Šamić pri Šmožupjan Lohamžović
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3153	There are 40 MPs present -- two of whom are dismissed; these are Mr. Đedović Ibrahim and Mrs. Filipović Mediha. It turns out one MP didn't vote. I'd like to ask an MP to come forward who hasn't voted. Since he hasn't voted, it's normal for him to be restrained. We now approach the vote of the first deputy chairman of the dom, i.e. members and that is Željko Mirjanić. Please state who is for Željko Mirjanić to be the vice chairman of the House. Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? I find that out of the 40 MPs present for Željko Mirjanić, i.e. 20 MPs voted for the first deputy chairman of this House. The vote was 13 and seven MPs were abstentioned. We are moving to announce the second candidate of the first deputy chairman, which is Zoran Spasojević. Whoever is for Zoran Spasojević, raise your hand. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? For the second candidate for the first deputy chairman of the House of Representatives, 11 voted – 24 – abstentioned. We approach the vote to elect the second vice-president as a candidate and this is the first on Ivo Lozančić's list, by raising, or by voting to plead for the second deputy, I said. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that for the second deputy chairman, who was first on the list, the accreditation list, out of the 40 MPs present, voted 20 against 19 and abstention 1. We move to the vote of the second candidate of the second vice-president of the dom and that is Mariofil Ljubić. I ask the MPs to plead with the vote. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3154	You didn't vote. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3155	No, no, I'm against it, I'm abstentioned. Thank you, who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that out of the 40 MPs present for the second candidate, Mariofil Ljubić voted 20 – against 17 and were abstentioned 2. Now we're going the other way, to the vote, as soon as we figure out who got the majority, here's what we're going to figure out.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3156	Both candidates got 20 each, so we're going to the second round for Ivo Lozančić and Mariofil Ljubić, to get an entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3157	We move to the entity vote, gentlemen, as Ivo Lozančić and Mariofil Ljubić get 20 votes each, we start voting again now Mariofil Ljubić, we go in reverse, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3158	No, no, it's the same order, it's just the opposite order.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3159	It's the same order, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3160	To conduct an entity vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3161	From the Federation entity to vote for Ivo Lozančić. Who's in, let him raise his hand? Who's against it?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3162	You don't have to mind, RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3163	We're going to RS. From the Serb entity, who is for Ivo Lozančić to raise his hand? Thank you very much. It's a bit of a complicated procedure, but it's democratic. For Ivo Lozančić – for the second deputy chairman, 14 of the Federation of MPs voted in the second round – 6 voted in RS. We're going to plead for Mariofil Ljubić now. 15 Who is for Mariofil Ljubić for another deputy? It says in the Rules of Procedure to repeat itself in the second round, the reverse goes to declare what we can do. That's it. We're moving on. Who is for Mariofil Ljubić to be the second deputy chairman of the Federation. From RS who is for Mariofil Ljubić to plead? Mr Ivo Lozančić, in an entity vote from the Federation of BiH, received 14 votes, so he has the majority. He received six votes from the RS, so there is a majority, which is one-third of the MPs from each entity under the constitution. Mr. Mariofil Ljubić received an entity vote from the Federation of BiH 12 – from RS 8 – he has the necessary majority of both.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3164	In front of HDZ representative, HDZ representative. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I think the situation here is clear. In the first vote, they also had votes for, and against had more Lozančić, which means that the winner is Mariofil Ljubić. In the other one they had a majority and I believe that here is not a stalemate position, but that here is a clear situation, Mariofil Ljubić has been elected.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3165	Are we going to spend the rest of the vote? We're going to vote in entity favors.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3166	We're going to vote for the first deputy chairman, we're going from second to second on the list. Željko Mirjanić, who is from the Federation for Željko Mirjanić to plead? Thank you very much, would you mind? From RS who is for Željko Mirjanić? - Six. We should now vote for Zoran Spasojević, the second candidate on the list of the first deputy chairman. Who's for Zoran Spasojević of the Federation? Thank you very much. RS who's in? Gentlemen, the procedure is a little complicated, we now know, according to the Rules of Procedure, that one who did not receive most of the entity, to repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3167	Now we're going to an entity vote for the chairman who got most of the total number, that's Sead Avdić. I ask the Federation's MPs to plead to Sead Avdić as the candidate for the chairman of this house. 16 Federation 14. RS – 6.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3169	14 MPs were declared from the Federation for Sead Avdić and from RS 6. It's an entity vote. We're going to vote for the candidate.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3170	We're out, Adem Borić got 13.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3171	Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3172	Let's take a break to level up, take a break to level this down - 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3173	Ten minutes break, while the service level this. I am informing the MP, and based on the results found, that Sead Avdić has been elected to the chairman of this House. [[PAUZA]] Sead Avdić, Mr. Sead Avdić, was elected to the chairman of this house. So Sead Avdić, out of the 40 MPs who voted for Sead, voted 20 – against 19 – 1 abstention. And from the Federation, when we went in that order, 14 MPs came out of RS 6 according to the Rules of Procedure for Sead Avdić. Therefore, Mr. Sead Avdić was elected president and I congratulate him. The Secretary of the House will now explain to the others how we've voted, except I'll explain for the first deputy. [[Applause]] When we're done with the deputy breaks, we'll have a meeting. For the first deputy chairman, Željko Mirjanić, out of 40, voted 20 – 13 – abstentioned 7. From Federation 15 voted in favour – from RS 6. Thus, Mr. Željko Mirjanić passed the first deputy chairman this time and I congratulate him. 17 Spasojević didn't pass, he didn't get the necessary majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3174	If you'd like to take a look around the list for another deputy, see some more data, read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3175	For the second chairman, out of 40 MPs, 20 voted for Ivo Lozančić for – against 19 and 1 abstention. The Federation for Ivo Lozančić voted 14 and RS 6 candidates. For Mariofil Ljubić, a total of 40 MPs voted for 20 – against 17 – 2 abstentions, and from the Federation voted 12 and from RS 8. Therefore, according to this data or 45% for another deputy, Mariofil Ljubić passed through, congratulations. Please, whoever answered the word. [[Applause]] Ambassador Bogić Bogićević wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3176	Please, the SDP MPs' Club of BiH, ask for the chairman's interpretation, for the proposal of the third vice-president, i.e. the second Mr Ljubić -- 20 votes against 17-2 abstentions, 39 MPs present, one is not accounted for at all in the vote, either did not vote or was not counted. We're asking for an interpretation, given that both candidates got 20 for each.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3177	Mr. Chairman, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate elected candidates on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, with the hope that we will work together to build our home country. The math here is clear, and I don't think we should be decommissioned at all, we think the session is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3178	The Party of Democratic Action is absolutely to respect the procedure and the legitimate choice of the chairman, first deputy and second deputy, and I would like to congratulate first and foremost the elected chairman, Sead Avdić, and wish him successful work, of course the other two just declared, first and second vice chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3179	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on the newly elected leadership of this high house. He's got the word "Banjac." Mr. Banjac, go ahead. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3180	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs and guests, on behalf of the SDS Parliament Club, I congratulate the newly elected leadership, I am convinced that they will seek to achieve more efficiency than has been achieved so far, and I see that on the bright faces of people who say they have come here to help the development of democracy. Therefore, all assumptions were created to go better and faster, in that name count that you will have correct opposition partners in the SDS, which will help implement the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution, once again thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3181	Thank you for your inspired words. Ladies and gentlemen, since we've chosen leadership, I'm giving a ten-minute break, and I'm asking the chosen leadership. I ask the chosen leadership to remain for the sake of an agreement to assume their duty. Ten minutes break. As you can see, the constitutional session is over at the first moment. [[PAUZA]] I thank the newly elected leadership, thank all MPs, and I congratulate them indeed on the appropriate, responsible behaviour at this time, when it comes to the establishment of the House, which will enable successful work, I hope and I am confident that we will have a proper relationship with the joint forces and future correct on resolving these fateful issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3182	Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, Your Excellency, Representatives of the International Community, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank Mr Begović Muhamed, who has brought to this session the first part of his end and in this sense all the recognitions for the procedure and respect for the simple Rules of Procedure on the functioning of Parliament – the House of Representatives of the Parliament of BiH. I would like to thank this opportunity, on behalf of the members of the College of this high house, for the confidence that this choice has shown us. I am convinced that we will all fight together on the path of peace, tolerance, reconciliation, implementation of the Dayton Agreement, equality, constitutionality of the people in the entire BiH area, so that all the exiled - displaced ones return to their hearths, that this is a massive, organised return in the coming year 2001, that we simply begin to restore trust in BiH, simply to restore the trust of especially parts of the international community and especially investors who want to invest in BiH, to start to create new jobs, to bring people back optimism, to encourage them to have a sense of living in BiH and to bind their fate in this context, especially the young generation of their roots to this soil. In that sense, I can expect the future of this country. In that sense, surely there are many responsible jobs and assignments in front of this tall home. I am convinced that with the common forces, the common potentials of this high home, these honorable 19 real people, we will simply take a major step towards the prosperity of BiH, towards democratisation of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, towards simply better for our ordinary man, for ordinary citizens and people living in BiH and in both the BiH entity and the Federation of BiH and RS, which means that today is a kind of message of encouragement, primarily for the new year 2001, that people can expect that one model of politics can function in BiH, which is not exclusively based on political philosophy, based on a national, political or other criterion, rather than simply that another model of politics can function and give answers, to all contradictions of BiH's functioning and development, both in the legislative and executive government, and in the area of judicial authority. I also want to give the opportunity to give both the first and second deputy chairman of the BiH House of Representatives, to say and address this respected home and, also, I would like to ask and give my word to the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr Radišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3183	Gentlemen, Mr. President of the BiH Presidency, thank you for your confidence, it is time for the BiH institutions to function as prescribed by the Constitution. I believe this assembly will get the strength to pass laws in the interest of all BiH citizens. Let me thank you from this place for the MPs from RS, who were in the previous meeting of the BiH House of Representatives and for thanking Mr Mirko Banjac in particular, whom I consider to have done his duty in one quality way. Gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3184	I would like to thank all of you for supporting today's candidacy, the Honorable President of the BiH Presidency, the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. I can say here that as a representative, together with you, I will advocate building BiH, as a modern, prosperous state, on the principles of the BiH Constitution, that we will try to take over the legislative initiative, strengthen institutions to do what is necessary, to create a perspective for BiH citizens, within BiH and to return BiH citizens, trust in BiH institutions. I would especially like to thank the current assembly of the BiH House of Representatives and its chairmans because they have worked in a very difficult and complex time, so I expect that we will all speed up the legislative process together and, with the help of the Council of Ministers, round the BiH legal system on one plan.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3185	Thank you. Mr. Radišić, chairman of the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3186	Dear MPs, ministers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, by the authority of the other two members of the BiH presidency, allow me to sincerely congratulate you on your election to the BiH Parliament and to express my satisfaction that today's constitutional session of the House of Representatives is open, I would say, a new page in BiH's parliamentary life. Congratulations to the chairman and vice-president, which you have just chosen. 20 This session, by its total ambience, proved more that BiH, its citizens and its peoples and all the institutions of constitutional and legal order, the last general elections, a month or two ago, entered a qualitative new phase of their stable constitutional and legal life. In front of this house and the BiH Parliament as a whole, there are extremely large tasks, on the way to strengthening BiH, as a stable rule of law, in which institutions of the Constitution, at all levels of government, will work in the interests of both the peoples and the citizens of BiH, lead us through convergence and integration within the region of Europe and the world. The citizens are asking us to do so, and I would say, with the strengthening of total responsibility and coordination in doing so, we can and we must. I think the strong message of this session is that, in the implementation of the results of the recent elections in the constitution of the legislative authority, at all levels, it is necessary to work urgently and responsibly to ensure both executive and overall power, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement and in particular, the expectations of our peoples and our citizens. Both this home and this parliament, as well as other BiH-level institutions and bodies, face a major challenge. We are facing a very complex and difficult problem in strengthening the freedom and rights of citizens, creating assumptions for normal democratic life, to deal with the accumulated problems of citizens, especially the refugee and displaced population, and in particular to strengthen overall and social stability in BiH. Five years after Dejton, five years of peaceful development and strengthening and affirmation of BiH, require all authorities to work even more decisively and faster to address acute problems. The BiH presidency in this regard carries part of its responsibility and competencies under the constitution. We want to strengthen the institutions of the BiH rule of law as soon as possible in the community of equal peoples and countries of Europe and the world, and above all to obtain conditions for the accession to the Council of Europe as soon as possible and to join the European Union. I expect and all of us expect that in the coordination of the work of institutions and bodies at all levels, we will make new quality, the will of the people, the results of the recent elections, a new political-parliamentary picture or climate has been created, at all levels of government, which are even more affirmed by our constitutional and legal system, a system of tolerance, full equality and responsibility, mutual trust, and I am convinced that, in line with its function in this House, the BiH Presidency will have a sincere, truly, sincere partner in our joint affairs. Once again, I congratulate the constitution of this house and let it be brought to me that all of you, MPs and all the structures of the BiH government, as well as all the citizens and equal peoples of BiH, are sincerely congratulated in 2001, which will be the years of great opportunity and great challenge. I'm sure we won't miss that chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-12-29-0.u3187	Thank you to the chairmanship of the BiH presidency, Mr Radišić. Thank you, too, to Mr Mirjanić and Ljubić, too, for the words you have shown in front of this high house. I, too, want a few more information that is important and necessary for our future joint work, in that sense reminding you, that today we have received questionnaires from the Service that you have, I hope, already filled out. Questionnaires should be given to the service in order to have the necessary information to facilitate communication with all of us. I also have a duty to remind you of a few provisions of the Rules of Procedure that are very current at this moment. 21 First, on the provision of Article 5. The Rules of Procedure, which is prescribed that within seven days, from the election of the chairman and vice-president, MPs form members of parliament. According to Article 15. The Rules of Procedure, each Member's Club, shall provide the Chairman of the House with a list of its members, signed by each member, including the official name of the Members' Club and the name of its chairman and vice-president, and the sledeći provision that is important is, Article 6. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that within seven days following the expiry of the term of office of the Members, the deadline of Article 5 expires on 28.12.2000, hence the deadline for the establishment of the Members' Clubs, the House, on the proposal of the Members' Clubs, shall decide to join the House, according to Article 27. Rules of Procedure, of course this deadline is extended in seven days. Gentlemen, in order to respect these provisions and to fully establish the House as soon as possible, and the home is established when all working committees are established, I pray for the full activity of all officials, all party clubs and all, uniformly political parties, which are participating in the BiH House of Representatives. Our intensive activities are more important than having many priority laws and other acts to be considered and adopted in the previous assembly of this home. This also shows the fact that you have received so much material today, and you have received all the materials that have been put into parliamentary procedure. Therefore, all these materials should come to the agenda of our next sessions. So the sooner we finish this job, the sooner we can do this work committee, the sooner we can perform our function fully and successfully. I thank you once again and thank all those who participated in the proposal personally and personally for the chairman of the BiH Parliament. I am also obliged to point out that the SDP MPs' Club, through the words of Bogić Bogićević, has launched a request to review the procedure and the Rules of Procedure on the Constitution and functioning of Parliament, that is, the BiH House of Representatives, to elect Mr Mariofil Ljubić, will remain a task for the next session and a simple Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm using this opportunity to congratulate all citizens in 2001. I am concluding a constitutional session of the BiH House of Representatives. Thank you. The seat is closed at 3:15.
