ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u718	Ladies and gentlemen, honored delegates, honored guests, I am opening the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's session, in addition to the House of Nations delegates, the president and members of the BiH presidency, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Phara, representatives of public information funds were invited. All those present who have responded to the call for today's session, I welcome and thank you for your presence. Today's session is attended by 13 delegates. Of which, 4 delegates from the Serb people, 5 delegates from the Bosniak people and 4 delegates from the Croatian people. Mr. Vinko Zorić and Mr. Momir Malić justified the absence and I would like to point out that Mrs. Minister Bisera Turković also justified the absence of today's session of the Council of Peoples. Since we have a quorum for today's session, we can work hard and make a very important decision. I have here a little note in this reminder, concerning the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, and I want, before I suggest the agenda, to note that this, that the Rules of Procedure of the People's House will be practically signed today and will be practically published in the Official Messenger of BiH, number 27, means, the Official Messenger of BiH 27, is scheduled for the publication of the Rules of Procedure of the People's House. For today's session, I suggest some updated agenda compared to the proposed agenda, gentlemen, which you received in the invitation to this session today. Let me read that updated agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u721	Gentlemen of the Presidency, gentlemen of the delegates, ladies and gentlemen, at the last session, i.e. at the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I have asked that the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be published today. Just now, here, I'd like to ask for a reason to ask if I can be answered, the reason why it hasn't been published to this day, although we know that we did three months ago, that this house adopted it and why so much delay. Here, at the end of the term of this house, and still this Rules of Procedure, which we should have been working on in the long run, has not, in fact, come into effect.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u722	I thank Mr. Pajić. I'd like to ask the secretary, Mr. Jadranka, to give an explanation. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u723	After the signing, by the chairman in fact, members of the College, only one colleague as a lecturer worked in three languages. This is the biggest problem with us, because we really wanted to come out of the quality and language and technical processing of the Rules of Procedure. The official messenger is reserved. Mr. Drago Ljubičić will sign it today, so he will be in that official messenger 27. I don't know, I'm gonna lie about whether she's gonna wear today's date or Monday's, I don't really know.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u724	We heard the answer. Is Mr. Pajić satisfied with the answer? Okay. Is anyone else answering for a discussion, a debate, about this agenda point? If we don't, we'd like to make a statement on the minutes of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples. Please, who is to adopt a record, a copy from the 22nd session of the House of Peoples? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We find, then, unanimously with 13 votes for, adopted. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Ad.2. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol and the Agreement: a) II Faculty Protocol with the International Civil and Political Rights Pact, aimed at abolishing the death penalty. Please, I'm opening a debate. Is there any need for introductory remarks from any of the BiH Council of Ministers present on this agreement? Is anyone reporting for a debate on this agreement? If not, I conclude Mr. Žigić's suggestion. Now, please, let us be clear about this agreement, or are we going to do this, can we go to all of these agreements and plead to everyone or individually? Individually. All right, well, Mr. Pajić's motion for us to plead individually on these agreements. Please, regarding this first agreement. Who's in favor of ratifying this first agreement? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, with 13 votes to go. It's about the next agreement. 4 b) I am opening a debate on the development loan for the education sector between BiH and the International Association for the Development of the World Bank. Here you go. Is anyone answering for a debate over this agreement? If there isn't, please let us be clear about this agreement as well. Who's in favor of verifying and ratifying this agreement? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I agree, too, and this agreement, unanimously, with 13 votes in favour. c)A loan agreement for development – pilot of the emergency employment project for new jobs between BiH and the International Development Association I am opening the debate. Mr. Pajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u725	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that this agreement is not accepted at this time, and here's why. In BiH, whose component is the RS entity, basic democratic conditions have not been acquired so that such an agreement can be accepted. I live in RS, I was born there, I live there in these times of war, war and war, since '91. Well, here, until today, at all levels of government in RS, and here in BiH, basic human rights and freedoms are violated, guaranteed by the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, including labour relations laws and employment laws. We had one situation in the war period, which I wouldn't like to talk about, there was war, the situation was what it was. In the wartime, it began in '95. until '97, again I speak, in the RS, there was a layer of people who, in fact, had just ruled the people, not in the name of the people. A large number of people could not receive employment on any basis, regardless of their knowledge, expertise, qualifications and other, if he was not a member of the relevant option that prevailed during that period. Furthermore, since '97. Until last April's elections, at least in the environment I live in, there was also an option in power that did not allow other people to be hired unless they were members of the ruling political options or political parties. Here, it happens after these April elections, there's been a April election, in my middle again where I live, the same things happen that people get squished, fired from work, people at 30, 35 years of work experience, work experience, no matter what, I say again, to their professional and moral qualifications, except they don't belong to an option that's in power. I believe, here goes these November elections, I said that in the last session, and in the previous one, 140 – 150,000 citizens of RS are excluded from the election process, disproved on the fundamental human right to be chosen and to choose. And it will happen, I'm sure, and after these November elections, that these 150 or 160,000 people won't be able to exercise any right, on any basis, to hire, unless they accept, if they don't comply, or I don't know in any way not five accept ultimatums, demands, and I don't know what's going to follow, that certain ruling option, which will rule this people, in these areas. Therefore, precisely because I am convinced that in the coming period, and in the next year or two or three to perhaps some of the next elections, there will be no conditions for the equality of all peoples and citizens in the RS, and therefore in BiH, that this loan that is eventually approved will be used again by that group of ruling people in order to personally enrich itself, hire their best friends, godfathers, relatives, and another layer of people, who will not have the right to go to elections, will remain without a job and thus be discriminated against on this basis, not only on this basis, politically or otherwise. Therefore, I do not believe that the conditions have been met for the international community to approve and to accept such a loan in such a non-democracy condition that exists in the RS and BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u726	I thank Mr. Pajić. Mr. Ristan Ristić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u727	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, we've been hearing from each other behind this pay phone for the past four years. What Mr. Pajić has now suggested, this really has nothing to do with smartness, let alone a normal story. Mr. Pajić, in RS and BiH, trying to create conditions for the people to get a job and could survive and work. This people also came out in Serbia, so we saw how your leader, Vojislav Šešelj, went. These 160,000 people came out in the last election, which you're making, but not one click of the people who lied to the 160,000 and I'd like to ask you to speak behind this phone booth in the future. You can't say that in RS, where I live, about anarchy, that people get fired from work because they don't belong to an option. Normally, it was a trend when the SDS and Radikal coalition ruled. That's not true today, gentlemen. Today, irresponsible directors belonging to that click are dismissed. You know, like one Mrdić in Trebinj, who privatized elektoprivreda, and a series of directors in Ugljevik who makes his local club a football field worth four and a half million marks, while the people in RS have no bread to eat. These are the things that confuse you and don't let yourself talk about an entity and a state that's trying to get out of a crisis that just might have made in these areas. I suggest that, normally, this agreement be adopted and that we move into the future and sort of unwind the past. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u728	Thank you. Mr. Pajić, probably a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u729	Well, gentlemen of the delegates, I have the right to state my opinion, and you, Ristić, have made an incorrect assumption. First, the Serbian Radical Party is the only opposition party at this point in both RS and BiH. The SRS has never been in power. You good 6 you know, never and nowhere, and I'll give you an example, I wouldn't, I would, if I had to, I would bring for the next congregation a hundred, and a hundred fifty, and a thousand examples in favor of what I was talking about earlier. Now I'm going to set my own example. I've never been in power or in my midst, I say again, the SRS is the only opposition party. My example, here, was the local elections in April, and after 35 years of working hours in the authorities of the Bijeljina municipality's administration, I and my family were out of work, and it's not just my case. I will bring many signatures, many signatures of discrimination, not just members of Serbian nationality, but discrimination in my environment and in many areas of discrimination between members of Bosniak and Croatian nationality. I thought today, I think I have that, too, to bring a list of 120,000 signatures, including about 2,000 signatures of members of the Bosniak and Croatian nationality, which will confirm this and this is the truth, the naked truth, that only members of the party are employed in power priority while most of the rest of the people are out of work and are able to do as they know and can. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u730	I would ask the delegates, all of these are certain thoughts and I am not taking away the right of any delegate, so to state his position and opinion in certain issues or problems if there are, means to make his comment. I personally think that certain phenomena, and if they exist, and if they are present, so I wouldn't comment, they don't have a foothold, in my opinion personally, or I don't think we should open a debate about it right now, when it comes to this agreement. I personally think that this agreement should be adopted and that we are going towards what Mr. Ristan is, so, a little bit commentary in one part, to try to create conditions for employment, and this is a problem that deserves perhaps special attention and means a special debate about it. But I think that's exactly the kind of phenomenon, I say, and if there are, they shouldn't affect our statement when it comes to the adoption of this agreement, because I see the advantage of this agreement in creating conditions for employment, and these phenomena need to be corrected through life. Before this break, Mr. Tošić, however, I would like to give the word to the minister, Mr. Kurtović, because, however, he answered for the discussion before you, Momire, asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u731	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out a few things, where we should focus our attention, not entering what the previous gentlemen have said and starting with the fact that in BiH, about 40% of the working population, there is currently no work. I am starting from the fact that we are faced with one big problem of mass departure of young people, people who, unfortunately in BiH, do not see a great perspective of their fast employment, people who feel a little frustrated about all that is being solved or not solved in these five years, when it comes to what young people want to see and to actively participate and start from another fact, which is why this credit agreement is made and made. It was a direct cause that the military and one and the other entities must reduce the number of their active participants and this, practically, first pilot project, how to create space, how to create preconditions, that young, and these demobilised fighters, can reach some employment, or existence, and that those long lines, unfortunately, are reduced in front of embassies, consulates and others. 7 So the idea of this agreement is to try to create one critical mass. This is a pilot project, so you know, to create one model of how to create new jobs in both entities. Given all the circumstances, given the moment of the situation in mind, I believe that this agreement should not be considered in the context of previous discussions, and I would ask you, in that sense, to plead on this agreement, because of the objectives that he has been made for, not getting into all the problems, and probably having them everywhere, they are present. Unfortunately, we live in a rather difficult economic situation and every phenomenon causes our additional problems, but I would ask, indeed, that this agreement is not being observed in this context. This is an agreement in which BiH is given an unlimited amount of money for a very long period, in which, more importantly, not only through the interest context, we will try to make a new model of how new jobs are created and how to try to create a chance and opportunity for all those who are jobless, to get to work. I would therefore ask you to get rid of all these other remarks, to observe the primary goal, and the goal is this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u732	I thank the Minister, Mr Kurtović. I'd like to ask Mr. Tošić how many breaks, five minutes. A five-minute break, gentlemen. I'd like to ask you to be exact. Gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] One brief explanation, the reason for the break is just a short and small exchange of views, personal, within the framework of delegates from RS. Is anyone else answering for a discussion or discussion on this agenda? If not, allow me to conclude the debate and ask you to plead with me on this agreement. Who's in favor of ratification and acceptance of this agreement? Against? We don't have any abstentions. I find, with 12 votes to one vote against, the agreement is accepted. Thank you. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 3. An innovative list of conditions for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe, gentlemen, please allow me just a moment. We were in a position to be present in BiH from 9 July to 13 July 2000 as rapporteur of the Political Affairs Committee of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly, right in the context of the process, which takes place and is under way, related to BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. It has been announced that it will be the last visit of the rapporteurs, so after that we have not, as far as I know, been visited by this species. We have received here, just from the rapporteur, Mr Šurjan, a list of these conditions for admission to the Council of Europe. I would like to point out that today, I believe that you have all found on the table, too, a letter from the BiH Ambassador to the Council of Europe, Mr Igor Gaon, who is also informing us about one of these last sessions in the 8th Council of Europe, and if you have read this letter, you could see and conclude all of BiH's positions together, related to its entry into the Council of Europe. I wouldn't comment anything further. I felt and wanted to personally give my opinion and comment on this letter and on this point. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u733	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully accept these conditions set before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as a precondition for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. However, I have to say again, it is surprising that these representatives of the international community and of Europe, who are setting these conditions for us, which I hope we all accept and we want to implement as our contribution to BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, but I want to say again, why are you the same ones who are setting these conditions for us, like, under point 3, on the first page. Convincing progress in conditions that improve human rights. As far as we are concerned in BiH, I say again, we are willing to accept it all, realize and implement it, but again I must say that it is those who impose these conditions on us that violate and prevent the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms in BiH. I am going back to the elections and the Electoral Law and this very international community, that is, the OSCE and the Interim Election Commission, as a body of the international community, prevents the protection and exercise of fundamental human rights in the area of election rights. An obvious example was the last local elections in April, and here are these November elections, when it is forbidden for individuals and parties to participate in the elections, which, I say again, violates fundamental human rights and freedoms, guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms. So I'd just ask them a question. How can we now contribute to improving the achievement of basic human rights and freedoms, if that is what those of us are asking for, that is what prevents them from doing? It's one of my questions and an objection to these conditions that have been delivered, and I'd like to comment on the adoption of a permanent electoral law. Yes, I am absolutely in favour of the adoption of a permanent electoral law and I was in favour of that permanent electoral law being adopted even when it entered into the procedure, with some minor corrections, but it doesn't matter, maybe it didn't take much correction. The conditions have been obtained for this Electoral Law to be adopted and that these and past local elections, and these general elections scheduled for November 11th, are conducted under the permanent Electoral Law, that would be correct and fair and now I ask again. I was absolutely in favour of the elections being conducted under this permanent electoral law. And now, can anyone give me an answer, why this election law has not been passed so far, and who has obstructed or prevented the adoption of a permanent electoral law?
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u734	I thank Mr. Pajić. Is anyone still answering for discussion and discussion? I'm closing the debate. Let me just conclude with one note. We have accepted this list and, simply, as it is written here, we have received the list of innovative conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe and I propose that the House of Peoples be declared, too, to speed up these activities necessary to achieve the conditions for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, and one suggestion. Here, I suggest so too, because 9 I have received information that such a position and conclusion has also been taken by the Representative Council, when it comes to the work of the Working Party on the drafting of the Election Law, to try to complete this text as soon as possible, in order to appear in the public debate and come to Parliament, means, both to the Representative Council and the Council of the People and to try and meet that condition. There's no need for us to make a statement, just to keep it that way. We're going to the next item on the agenda. 4. A report by the Working Group on the work on preparing the BiH Election Law Draft Here, just before Mr Pajić commented on this election law. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. We got that text, report and information from the Working Group, what they've done so far and how much they've done. We don't know if there's any need for additional comments or explanations about what we got. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. If not, let me just repeat this, in principle, just before I said it. A report by the Working Group working on making BiH Election Law is accepted and only one more time to ask the Working Group to be a position, I suggest that it be the attitude and conclusion of the People's House, we ask the Working Group, which is working on making this law, to prepare it as soon as possible to appear in the regular procedure. Mr. Izet Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u735	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest the addition of this attitude given by Mr. Ljubičić. The work group's report on the work to prepare BiH's draft election law said in the last paragraph that it is necessary to wait for changes, changes to the entity's constitution, in line with the said decision by the BiH Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people. I propose that this House recommend and ask the competent entity parliaments to implement the procedure for harmonising the entity's constitution in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to supplement this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u736	Please, is anyone still answering for a discussion, a debate? I ask you to plead with me for the proposal of this conclusion. Who's to this conclusion? A report by the Working Group is accepted, along with this supplement proposed by Mr Žigić, a supplement where it is proposed and asked the entity's assembly to, in connection with the BiH Constitutional Court Decision, be implemented and changed. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u737	Procedures related to the BiH Constitutional Court's decision in entities, as it is one of the conclusions offered by the Working Group.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u738	We can do this. I think there's a procedure for that decision. Who's to this conclusion? - Ten for this conclusion. Oppose — 1. uzdržati — 2. / 1 I konstatuj that with this statement by the delegates in the order of the Serb people, I can see that he did not pass. He's not accepted. Mr. Žigić's proposal, (for me even if this is how good it is), I would ask Mr. Jadranka, since it is a report that does not make any particular commitment to us, to accept that we are only familiar with the report of the Working Group, which was working on the draft of the Election Law. Please, with one apology, since we have come to the voting situation, can we accept such a proposal and such a conclusion, means that the House of Peoples is just familiar with the Working Group's report on the work of the Electoral Law? Can we just say this? Thank you. Ad.5. The handover of the office of the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Peoples, within the framework of the regular rotation, means taking over the role of the chairman in the joint institutions of BiH. This means that it is up to the handover of the chairman of this National Council. Allow me before this act itself, so that position today should be taken by Mr Vlado Šoljić, let me just thank you, as the current chairman of this council, first of all to his fellows and members of the Colleges, and Mr Vlado Vlad and Mr Žigić, for one corrective co-operation, that means understanding and respect. I thank you, too, to all of you delegates, who, in principle, and mostly regularly responded to these sessions and who in these sessions so far, in the full of this term, I personally have an opinion, gave your contribution and role in one correct way, that means your discussions and discussions. I thank the representatives of the international community who attended our meetings, as well as the members of the Council of Ministers, who found it necessary and appropriate to attend our meetings, even though on several occasions we had personal findings, remarks, demands, when it comes to the presence of ministers and members of the BiH Council of Ministers of the Council and this House. I also thank the members of the professional service for their assistance and the role in preparing these materials, as well as the representatives of the information funds that have been following us so far. 11 I wish Mr. Šoljić the rest of this term to be successful, and I would like to be honest in the next meeting in this house to be at least a part of these delegates, because I think they have made their contribution. I congratulate Mr. Šoljić and I want to... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u739	I welcome you. I thank Mr. Ljubičić and Mr. Žigić for his cooperation, which was indeed like Mr. Ljubičić said. Where most of the problems were expected, it was the least. It is not dishonest to say that it is the merit of all of you who have been in this home, and I would say a little more than the three of us, who have done our job collegiately, correctly, responsibly, respecting each other, or, thirdly, so that these problems, which could have been avoided, we have really achieved it. There is only one item left on the agenda. Ad.6. There is no answer to the delegation questions, only to add that, if there are new questions, we should try to answer both the new questions and the ones that have been asked and are not responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u740	At the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I felt that through the professional service and the Secretariat of this House the issue would be addressed to the competent institutions. I asked one question and representatives of OHR and the Interim Election Commission to give me an answer, that is, the reason for the ban on going out to political parties, parties and individuals to the upcoming general elections, so as I have not yet received an answer, I am asking now, I am asking that question again. Is that a question passed on to these institutions? Well, here, again, I ask that same question once again, to be referred to the competent institutions, to ask for an answer, so that I can tell my people the reason for the ban on going to the upcoming general elections. And now another initiative, while I am here, here we have now adopted an innovative list of conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, among other things, and one of the conditions is the adoption of a permanent electoral law, which I am really looking forward to again, and I would like to refer one more initiative to the OSCE Commission and the Interim Election Commission to delay the upcoming general elections until the adoption of the permanent Election Law and to carry out the next elections under the permanent Election Law, which I hope we will soon adopt. This is my initiative towards the OSCE Mission and the Interim Election Commission, the OSCE and those institutions that care and care for the conduct of elections in these areas. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2000-10-13-0.u741	Thank you, Đoko. Any more questions? Can we bring the end? We are from the stage when they asked and ended up in prison until the stage when they asked and have no answer, we will enter the stage when there will be questions and answers. Right? This is what I'd like to conclude with this session of ours. The seat's finished at 12.10 p.m.
