ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. The Minutes of the sitting of 18 July will be read by the Secretary-General. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u6	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we are very strongly asking for the support and help of the Senate Presidency because we see an institutional problem. Senator Matteo Salvini, Vice-President of the Council and Minister of the Interior, despite the request and the subsequent repeated request from the Anti-Mafia Commission, continues not to attend the work of the Council. It is an institutional duty. It is perhaps one of the biggest if not the greatest plague in our country and this need, the need to cooperate with the parliamentary institution, which has foreseen and set up a bicameral Commission that has the duty to go deeper and needs to be informed, cannot be a duty on which the Minister of the Interior makes assessments of opportunities or not. We understand that you do not want to come to this House and report on other scandals and illegal funding. We cannot, however, tolerate that you refuse to go to the anti-Mafia Commission to report on your governmental and institutional duties. Therefore, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, we call on the Presidency of the Senate to be active in relation to this absolute requirement, which we consider essential. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u7	Senator Marcucci, we will surely pass on your request, just as the Undersecretary here will do. I call the President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Pittoni, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u8	Mr President, the Commission has not yet completed its examination of draft law No 1374. The afternoon sitting was suspended in view of the simultaneous meeting of a parliamentary group and will resume, taking into account the meeting of another parliamentary group, one hour after the conclusion of the Assembly's work. This time will also be useful in resolving the remaining unresolved issues. The Commission is now in the process of voting, the necessary opinions have been acquired and therefore, given the constructive spirit of all political forces, including opposition, I trust that the examination can be concluded this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u9	In relation to Senator Pittoni's report, the discussion of bill 1374 will take place at tomorrow's sitting. I therefore have, pursuant to Rule 56, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the reversal of the discussion of the topics on the agenda, in the sense of proceeding with the examination of the bill of account and settlement.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u10	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1387 and 1388. The rapporteurs, Senators Ferrero and Pirro, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 1387, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the general state statement is the instrument through which the Government is accountable to Parliament for the results of budgetary management and consists of two parts: the budget account and the asset account. A supplementary note shall be attached to the accounts for each administration. The statement is accompanied by an economic statement and an illustrative report of the resources used for the protection of the environment and the use and management of natural resources by the central government of the State (state eco-account). On the basis of the accounting findings, the management of competence achieved in 2018 an improvement in the balances compared to the final forecasts contained in the 2018 adjustment. The data show that total budget operations have resulted in €840.67 billion in revenue and €816.7 billion in expenditure commitments, generating a total surplus of €23.9 billion, equal to €26 billion net of accounting regulations. Compared to last year's balance there is an increase of 15.6 billion euros; to the formation of this result has competed the greater decrease of the expenses, diminished of 37,4 billion euros regarding 854 of 2017, while the revenues are diminished of approximately 24 billion regarding 864.5 of 2017. The final transaction differential shows a net balance to be financed of €19.98 billion, reaching the limit set by Article 1 of the Budget Act for 2018, with an improvement of €23.9 billion compared to the final forecast. This balance, compared to 2017, shows an improvement of € 9.1 billion. Net of accounting regulations, this figure is 17.9 billion euros, an improvement of 23.6 billion compared to the corresponding final forecasts. The primary budget surplus was EUR 49.2 billion, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP, which was 7.7 billion higher than in 2017, with an improvement of 15.7%. Finally, the use of the financial market amounts to -225.1 billion euros with an improvement of 44.7 billion compared to the final forecasts, in compliance with the maximum limit set by Article 1 of the Budget Act for 2018. The net balance to be financed was EUR -45.9 billion in 2018, equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP; this result is to be reported to the combined result of the management of competence and that of the residues, which have a negative balance in terms of competence of approximately 40 billion and 5.7 billion in terms of residues respectively. The balance shows an improvement both over the final forecasts and over the 2017 financial year. As regards residual management, the residue account from 2017 and previous years had as of 1 January 2018 active residues of EUR 204 billion and liabilities of EUR 137.9 billion, with an active surplus of EUR 66 billion. In the course of the year the situation outlined has changed: in fact, on the revenue side, there have been decreases of 46 billion euros and on the expenditure side there has been a similar decrease of 17,5 billion euros, of which 8.3 billion are eliminated by administrative peremption. As a result of these changes, the findings of active residues from previous years amount to EUR 158 billion, while the residual liabilities amount to EUR 120 billion. With regard, then, to the residuals of new formation deriving from the management of competence of the financial year 2018, the sums remaining to be collected and paid amount to 88 billion euros and those remaining to be paid reach 68,3 billion euros. In terms of the rate of formation of new passive residues, this increases from 8.2% recorded in 2017, to 8.4% recorded in 2018. This increase is due to the higher rate of reduction of eligible payments compared to the rate of reduction of commitments. Overall, the residue account at 31 December 2018 exposes active residues of €203.9 billion and liabilities of €140.36 billion, with an active surplus of €63.57 billion. Compared to the beginning of the financial year, the latter shows a decrease of approximately 2.6 billion euros, due to a reduction in the volume of active residues of 136 million euros and an increase in passive residues of 2.4 billion euros. Finally, as regards the general account of the assets - the accounting document that annually provides the balance sheet of the State as it appears at the end of the financial year - it is found that the financial assets presented in 2018 a total increase of 20,1 billion euros, from 636 billion euros to 656 billion euros; in particular, an increase of the financial assets of the short-term due to the increase recorded in the assets for money to be collected and in the cash credits to be collected is to be recorded, offset in part by a decrease in the assets of the collection agents for money. With regard to medium- to long-term financial activities, a total increase of EUR 13 billion was seen. In the "produced" non-financial assets, an overall increase of 8.3 billion euros has been recorded. With regard to movable assets, stocks totaled an increase of 1.2 billion euros. In the non-financial assets "non-produced" there has been a total decrease of -104 million euros. The total financial liabilities are increased. For short-term liabilities, there is an increase in liabilities in the 2018 balance sheet, while in treasury debts there is an overall increase, determined by the combined effect of the decrease in other liabilities and the increases recorded for current accounts and floating debt, while the receipts to be settled have remained unchanged. For medium- and long-term debts, the total increase was EUR 45.78 billion, of which EUR 50.8 billion in redemption liabilities, partly offset by the decrease of EUR 5 billion in the remaining different liabilities. It should also be recalled that in the 2018 budget cycle, with reference to the three-year programming period 2018-2020, the expenditure review process has been integrated for the first time, as provided for in Article 22-a of Law No 196 of 31 December 2009, with a view to strengthening financial programming and with the aim of achieving a greater degree of systematicity of the expenditure review process. The savings proposals of the Ministries have merged into the budget law through specific regulatory provisions, with which the parameters determining expenditure have been revised and, to a greater extent, through actions to rationalise structures and processes. Faced with the target of 1 billion in net debt, budget appropriations have been reduced by around 1.3 billion euros, which will take effect - depending on the different impact of expenditure and their nature - in accordance with national accounting criteria. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u12	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1388, Senator Pirro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on 1 July 2019 the Government launched a package of measures consisting of the draft settlement law and Decree-Law No 61 of 2019. Compared to the April Economy and Finance Document, the settlement bill - assuming the same macroeconomic framework - shows an improvement in net debt in 2019 of 6.1 billion euros, determined by 6.2 billion from higher net revenues and 0.1 billion from higher net expenses. It should be noted that these amounts include an improved impact on the deficit of 0.5 billion, to be attributed to developments outside the scope of the State budget. In particular, the purpose of bill No 1388, which contains the state's balance sheet for the financial year 2019, is to update in the middle of the year the budgetary forecasts formulated to current legislation, also on the basis of the amount of the assets and liabilities established in the accounts. With the draft settlement law, the revenue forecasts are adjusted on the basis of the revision of the revenue estimates; the estimates of expenditure of a discretionary nature are adjusted on the basis of the needs arising; the forecasts of payment authorizations in cash terms are adjusted on the basis of the size of the residues established in the previous year's accounts. The settlement bill reflects the structure of the state budget and is therefore organized into missions and programmes. The latter constitute the units of vote. In the course of adjustment, the appropriations for expenditure laid down by law (so-called budgetary flexibility) may be amended by way of compensatory changes, even between different voting units, subject to the prohibition of using capital account appropriations to finance current expenditure. As from 2017, in analogy with the draft budget law, the bill of settlement is also accompanied by a technical report, which takes into account the consistency of the value of the net balance to be financed with the policy objectives set out in the Economic and Financial Document. This report shall be updated when the measure is passed between the two arms of Parliament. As regards the content of the bill, Article 1 provides for the approval of changes to the 2019 State budget forecasts, as shown in the annexed tables, referring to the estimates of revenue, the estimates of expenditure of the Ministries and the budgets of the autonomous administrations. In the annex to the bill, for cognitive purposes, the evolution, in terms of competence and cash, of the individual balance sheet posts as a result, both of the changes made by administrative acts until 31 May, and of the variations proposed by the bill of settlement itself. In addition, for each voting unit, the changes in the amount of residues are indicated, in line with the final findings set out in the 2018 financial statements. Article 2 provides for the reduction of the amounts of funds provided for in Articles 26, 27, 28 and 29 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance in relation to the provisions of Article 3, paragraph 5, of the Budget Act 2019. In particular, these are: the reserve fund for compulsory expenditure, the amount of which is reduced by EUR 130 million; the special funds for the re-entering into the budget of residual liabilities incurred in current and capital expenditure, reduced by EUR 50 million; the reserve fund for unforeseen expenditure, reduced by EUR 150 million; the reserve fund for cash authorizations, reduced by EUR 500 million. The above funds are included in the reserve and special funds programme, within the framework of the mission "Sources to be allocated" of the estimates of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. As regards the financial results, the changes proposed by the draft law in question lead to an improvement in the net balance to be financed (corresponding to the difference between final revenue and final expenditure) of EUR 1,919 billion in terms of competence and EUR 3,393 billion in terms of cash. Consequently, the net balance to be financed stands at a value of -58,9 billion euros compared to an initial forecast of -59,4 billion euros. This improvement is mainly due to the positive effect, for EUR 1.92 billion, of the proposed changes with the draft settlement law under consideration, largely offset by EUR 1.48 billion from changes per administrative act. The other balances also show a positive trend: public savings (from the difference between current and current expenditure before interest) improved by EUR 364 million compared to the initial forecast. Market use data (equal to the difference between final revenue and total expenditure, the latter from the sum of final expenditure and loan repayment) show a positive impact of around €5.3 billion. The changes proposed with the settlement bill are consistent with the programmatic levels of programmatic net balance set out in the budget law and, overall, largely reflect the adjustment of budget appropriations to the estimates made with the 2019 Economic and Financial Document. The adjustment, in addition to aligning the revenue forecast with that of the DEF, took note of the additional revenue of €1.7 billion. The improvement in the net balance to be financed in terms of competence is mainly due to a decrease in final expenditure of EUR 668 million (from EUR 637,991 to EUR 637,323 billion), partially offset by a reduction in final revenue of EUR 232 million (from EUR 578,638 to EUR 578,406 billion). The reductions in the expenditure appropriations proposed with the bill of settlement related to the unavailable provisions constituted by the 2019 Budget Act, for about 2 billion euros, have no effect on net debt as already discounted in the trend forecasts of the DEF 2019. In relation to the overall correction of public finance balances, the technical report also states that an additional EUR 0.5 billion of net debt reduction results from the increased revenues of the so-called CO2 auctions and the increased revenue for flows with the European Union. These are measures, however, the financial effects of which do not affect the draft settlement law in question, since they act outside the scope of the State's budget. In cash terms, the bill of settlement for 2019 overall determines an improvement of the net balance to be financed of 1,929 billion euros, resulting from a reduction of the final revenues for 232 million euros and a decrease of the final expenses for 2,16 billion euros. During the hearings held at the sitting on 17 July, further evidence was found to confirm the appropriateness of the estimates underlying the measure. The Director-General for Finance, during the hearing in the Chamber and Senate Budget Committees, highlighted the presence, for the current year, of higher tax and contribution revenues of 0.18 percentage points of GDP and higher non-tax revenue for an additional 0.16 percentage points. In addition, expenditure is 0.04 percentage points lower than expected. These changes have been taken into account on time by budgetary adjustment. The budgetary improvements recorded in the settlement bill and the effects of the provisioning measure would result in a positive change in the structural balance for more than 0.3 percentage points of GDP in 2019, more than agreed with the European Commission in December. The Parliamentary Budget Office, during the hearing in the Chamber and Senate Budget Committees, showed that of the 1.5 billion euros provided, 1.3 billion euros belong to the voting unit Reserve and special funds of the budget of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The 2019 budget law allocated € 5.4 billion to this voting unit, while providing provisions for € 450 million in the same. Of the initial resources, EUR 3.5 billion is allocated to the special funds for the reallocation of residual liabilities and the remaining resources are mainly earmarked for the compulsory expenditure fund and the unforeseen expenditure fund. I shall conclude, Mr President. The adjustment, by making effective the cut of 450 million euros envisaged by the budget law, has reduced by 150 million the resources destined for the re-entering into the budget of residual assets of capital account, of 50 those of current part and of 130 and 120 million euros, respectively, the reserve fund for compulsory expenditure and that for unforeseen expenses. The package therefore leads to an improvement in general government net debt of €7.6 billion for 2019, with a reduction in the deficit level from 2.4% of GDP foreseen by the DEF in April to 1.9 percent. As Minister Tria reiterated during the hearing, the measures taken with the measure under consideration and with the decree balances: they have allowed to strengthen the national credibility and confidence in the country without making reductions to the planned expenditure. An excessive deficit procedure has thus been avoided and, with it, the call for restrictive budgetary policy measures that would have been counterproductive to the economy. Mr President, I would like to conclude with a few more general considerations, because I believe it is important to include the balance sheet data for 2019 in a broader context which naturally concerns the most important economic data of this year, namely the improvement of public accounts in 2019. As pointed out several times, it is essential for our country's economic policy to be able to combine the more general strategy of support and recovery of growth with a gradual reduction of the government deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio. This is a difficult path, which we hope will begin to give the first positive results starting from this first result, which - I repeat - must be emphasized, even if it must be added that the road to the economy of our country remains in some way long and difficult, because we certainly want the stock of public debt to decrease in relation to GDP, but also that there is a policy of support for the inclusive and sustainable recovery I thank, on behalf of myself and my colleague Ferrero, the Senate Budget Service, whose data and considerations contained in the valuable documentation are fundamental results, and the Government and Commissioners for the contribution given to the discussion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u14	I declare the joint general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, the 2018 accounts and the 2019 settlement contain the numbers that have helped to remove the infringement procedure against Italy for excessive debt. The public debt reached the historical record - in May this year - of 2,373 billion euros, then slightly declined in June, but the trend is that it grows more than GDP. Thus, the ratio to GDP, which stood at 1,757 billion euros in 2018, and with a projection of only 20 billion more in 2019 at 1,777 billion euros; it is, in the first case, 135 percent and, in the second case, 133,5 percent. The percentages of the European Commission's forecasts were even worse, both on debt and on GDP growth. Hence the alarm and the request to review our public accounts. For now, fortunately for Italy and for Italians, an infringement procedure has been averted which would have been long, boring and costly. The wish on our part is therefore to have a less heavy debt stock at the end of the year, thanks also to a partial - fortunately - failure of 100 share and citizenship income. The two flagship measures of this yellow-green government affect the debt as, in order to finance them, 14 billion were placed in pure deficits. Each deficit euro is added to the debt until it is reduced. The two flag measures also affect GDP - in negative - both having a very low impact on consumption and economic growth. Citizenship income is even a maneuver of pure demagogic and even diseducational assistance: citizenship income and 100 share have a very low multiplier compared to the investment committed (14 billion in pure deficit). This represents the implementation of electoral measures for which the two parties to the so-called government contract had engaged with the Italian voters. On the other hand, this is also a bad choice in terms of economic policy. The debt now - it should be remembered - is about 20% in the hands of the central banks, for a little more than a quarter in foreign hands (27 percent) and for more than half of its total amount in Italian hands (53 percent): that is to say, for 80%, our debt is in the hands of the so-called market. This explains the wide fluctuations, which are not the result of the statements of the moment of this or that political character: they are linked to the choices of economic policy (or the lack of choices of economic policy) and to the stability of governments, that is, political decision-makers. Confirmation of the location in the euro area is also an important factor in the eyes of the market. There are negative impacts on the remuneration of government bonds, which, in turn, by increasing the burden on debt, remove additional resources from investment: a vicious circle from which you only get out by injecting confidence in a climate of stability. These are the magic words that this majority lacks: stability and subsequent confidence. They call on foreign investors, lead our entrepreneurs to believe in it and invest even more, creating that virtuous circle that is missing at the present time. In this sense, unfortunately, the constant photo of distrust in the country system given by the balance of payments, has seen - according to the constant data flows of the Bank of Italy - a flight of foreign investors in the last year and the increase of Italian capitals fled abroad in search of stability, more than of high remuneration, that does not exist. We arrive at the budget balances: the balances of the new figures posted in 2019, in and out, now show an improvement compared to the worrying public accounts that we had at the end of 2018. The deficit for 2019 fell to just over 2% from 2.4 approved by the Budget Act. Let us not forget that this value had been agreed before the last maneuver, before returning to 2.4 with the effects of the balances. The reduction in net debt will also improve the value of the debt-to-GDP ratio. The improvement of net debt resulting from the proposal of the settlement bill and from the additional resources is equal to 6 billion euros. To this figure must be added 1.5 billion of the decree-law of 2 July, n. 61, which brings the total amount brought to reduction of the deficit to approximately 7.6 billion euros. The government recorded - we had no doubt that this was the case - the lower expenditure on citizenship income and 100, estimated in a conservative way in 1.5 billion, but could be higher. Some studies show that there could also be some 3 billion less spending on these two measures of the Giallorossi government. However, we need a reversal of course. On the basis of the budgetary adjustment, which is now photographing more accurately, albeit not definitively, the public accounts that have modified the economic framework contained in the April Economic and Financial Document, the numbers for the September Update Note are opened. There is not much time because between the August update and September 27 the times are absolutely tight. The Note will be the most up-to-date reference point for the new budgetary session, in which we will have to deal with decisions already taken but which can be amended. Let me give you an example: will the clauses that would increase VAT be triggered? Do you or do you not go to a flat tax for all types of income? How do you reduce taxes on labour? What is the government's policy on the issue of the tax wedge, which makes our companies not competitive, especially compared to European competitors? How are investments encouraged and productivity rewarded - the real gap of Italy - and research, perhaps promoting integration between private companies and public research institutions? How, therefore, do we reward those who create new jobs? You don't do that with your citizenship income, not your 100th share. How do we reward companies that invest, that believe in our country? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] How do you move steady savings on current accounts? According to the data of the Bank of Italy, there are about 1,300 billion euros fixed on the current accounts. It must be made clear that Forza Italia is not interested in taxing them and is not interested in the amounts held in the safe deposit boxes, but is interested in getting them into the positive circle of bank credit and, therefore, investment. In essence, there are issues on which a Government would need to be moved by unity of intent and not by continuous divisions or that want to adopt propaganda measures of very short scope. Every day we see, now passively, a continuous diatribe between the President, Vice President, a Deputy Minister and another Deputy Minister. We need an injection of trust. We need clear ideas. We need a truthful operation on the accounts, but - in my opinion - with the current climate the situation can only be worse for our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, even in the wake of the accounting rules that have modified the securities of the measures, we believe that there is a real corrective budgetary manoeuvre: if we hold together Decree-Law No 61 of 2019 with budgetary adjustment, both by size (a correction of EUR 7.6 billion) and by quality, by merit, by necessity, we note that you have entered into a conflict with Europe and then turned to myths of advice, unfortunately onerous for Italian families and businesses. All this forced you to a corrective maneuver, which you do not want to define as such, putting behind you a clever solicitation of communication, propaganda, which belongs to you and accompanies you in this first year of government. However - in our opinion - we are in the presence of a first real relapse of the failure of your economic and social policies of the first year of government. Your economic and social policies have led to insecurity and uncertainty; they have produced, in the relationship between Italy and Europe, an isolation that unfortunately is detrimental to families and businesses. The first result - as is certified by Istat - is determined by the contraction of consumption and by a significant reduction of investments in the business and economy sector. These are the figures, Mr President, which are the basis for a necessary corrective action, which is part of a reduction in consumption and a reduction in investment, particularly due to the absence of economic policies in support of innovation, research and investment. If you think about it, these are the fruits of your uncertainties. In fact, we do not find an alternative way of generating work that may not include investment in research, innovation, support for businesses and training. If we think about it for a moment, the two fundamental measures of your budget law, clearly of a welfare nature - on the one hand, citizenship income and, on the other, the so-called 100 quota - have not only failed to show a reduction in poverty, but have even failed in the priorities of active policies to generate work and growth. We note the absence of active structural policies for work and growth, which should have been represented by a reform of employment centres, which you have - in our view - superimposed on a fair work to combat poverty in the territorial dimension, but confused behind reform processes which, in fact, have slowed down the same active policies, which are now essential to align demand and supply, to link labour demand to training paths and to allow fundamental pieces of our economy to transform and re-align into a future-oriented economic dimension. In a nutshell, you have succeeded in the masterpiece of failing in the fundamental measures of economic policies and doing so within a welding that has put, for the first time in disorder even the public accounts. We impact every day in the fantasies that the majority tells us, which constantly speaks - for example - of a debt reduction, but in reality the public debt in the country has grown and is still growing. The numbers are enough to certify it: we have gone from a debt value of about 131% of GDP to a prospect, in 2020, of 135.2% of GDP. If we go to link the increase in debt to the increase in the tax burden, we are determining two factors that I define inversely proportional to support for labour, growth and employment. As debt increases, the tax burden on households and businesses is also increasing. In this case too, the percentages and trends on which you have set out to finance two structural measures are determined. Let us be honest, at least between us: these are structural measures. Therefore, combating poverty and trying to change the social security part in deficit, being these structural measures, means forcing you - as this budgetary adjustment forced you - to use also the dividends of the most important public companies, in addition to those of the Bank of Italy, not to produce investments, but to correct the errors of economic policy that you have produced in this first year of exercise. The profits of companies and the increase in dividends can be used. But if we oriented them towards investment, perhaps we would produce a useful measure to support the country's growth and economic competitiveness. So let us add this framework, which is not only placed within a difficult macroeconomic environment for Europe, as you are trying to "sell." It is certainly a difficult context, because it is located within a change that is going through society and the economy in its entirety, even in the international dimension. There is not only a macro-economic factor to determine the country's turn towards recession. Moving from 1.7 per cent of GDP to 0.1 per cent of GDP to be consolidated means that Italy is turning towards economic stagnation and recession due mainly to the wrong measures that you presented in this first year of government. There is no measure to support growth. In short, we are passively witnessing a structural change in the economy and society without any proposal to support innovation, including technology, training, university and school. All this happens without concrete measures, which - these yes - together with the revival of investments could produce an economic shock that could give some positive sign to growth. Instead you have also destabilised the measures that worked, particularly those on supporting the competitiveness of Industry 4.0 companies, first by abolishing the super depreciation, then reintroduced it for six months. There is no country in the world in which companies are not in a position to make sure programming, because uncertain and extemporaneous measures take place, which first remove, then reduce, and make devastating mistakes because they do not take account of the results. Continue to live economic initiatives as a legacy of the past, while in reality they were fundamental to take Italy away from low growth and start it towards a more consistent one. Super depreciation and all initiatives to support economic enterprises have produced results. However, it has been - I say - consumed in the majority of agreements: first we have renounced super depreciation and today we have been forced to reduce and freeze a significant economic entity (more than 1.5 billion) that should have been used to support competitiveness, innovation and research. Change your path because, without a change of course to three hundred sixty degrees of new economic policies - this yes - the country will not grow. And today we do not know how to generate new jobs and new jobs without investing in knowledge, education, research and innovation. How do you generate growth by blocking public works? In this country yards are blocked for more than 49 billion euros. How can one think of putting a positive sign close to a clear stagnation of the economy without a structural revival of investment? In conclusion, Mr President, this move towards innovation in terminologies, which has introduced constant change and innovation, is unfortunately a bad return to the past, which forces us to correct - with the EUR 7.6 billion - your limitations, your mistakes and the cost of an inadequate sovereignist policy in Europe and failure in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u18	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact discussing two measures, the 2018 report and the 2019 adjustment, basically one year after the establishment of this Government and the beginning of the economic policies it has launched. We can safely say that the 2019 set-up brings very positive data, essentially in two respects. Firstly, it certifies that the economic policies of this Government have their own balance and have achieved the objectives that it had set itself, namely the launch of important reforms that, for some, were unrealizable, would have cost too much and would have put the state's accounts in disrepute: I am referring to 100; to a balanced citizenship income; to the billion and a half for the swindled savers, which I always want to remember; to the investments made in favour of local authorities, which give work and employment and put in circulation resources important for our economy. The policies have therefore been implemented, despite someone saying that they were unrealizable, at the expense of a breakdown of the accounts, which, however, through this adjustment, is shown to hold. They stand by a reduction in the debt of 7.6 billion, which shows the deficit-GDP ratio from 2.4 to 2.04 which was voted by Parliament in December last year in the budget law and which respects the agreements made at European level. I repeat that these are agreements that we are contesting, but with which we unfortunately have to deal until we have sufficient strength in Europe to change them. How is this achieved? It is achieved by reducing certain expenditure chapters. We already mentioned them last week: 1.5 billion was obtained mainly with the lowest expenditure on 100 and citizenship income, but also thanks to other economies. Then there was more revenue, due - it is fair to say - not to the increase of some rate, some tax or some leap, but essentially to one reason: the increase in VAT revenue. Why has there been an increase in VAT revenues? There are two elements, which are very different in nature. The first is the result of e-invoicing, which - I would like to remind you - was introduced by the Government of the PD of the last legislature and provided for an entry of 2 billion. Indeed, it is necessary to give Caesar what is Caesar's and to recognize that that measure has produced greater revenue. We wanted to disarm it, because we believe that it still represents a further load for VAT consignments, but 2 billion were many and it was difficult to identify them in last year's maneuver. The second reason is that VAT matches have increased, thanks to the merit of this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lannotti),]] which decided to aim in another direction: to lower the tax levy. You know that a 15% VAT rate has been introduced for VAT consignments with an income of up to EUR 65,000 and this has had a very positive effect: VAT consignments have increased and revenue has also increased. Here too two very different policies are shown between us and the past majority: we are aiming at reducing taxes to create development and to create more revenue, while in the past there have been those who have continued to focus on bureaucracy, leaps and taxation, which in the long term have had the effect of depressing our economy. That is why we in the next financial year intend to continue on the road we have set out, increasing the number of VAT consignments that can be deducted; in this case it is assumed and hoped that we will be able to apply a 20% rate for incomes up to EUR 100,000. This is the policy of the government and it is the policy of the League. We are convinced that, by charging less taxes, revenue will increase, simply because we will not fail our companies and our craftsmen. That is what we are aiming at. We have succeeded in achieving a situation of stability and trust in this settlement. It has been said by Mr Ferro that we would not be able to achieve this situation, whereas the facts show us that, precisely with this adjustment, we have achieved stability, confidence and even the containment of the spread, that fantomatic spread that now - fortunately for our country - has been lowered, precisely because the economic policies of this Government have been successful. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As I said, we have achieved stability and confidence, and we have succeeded in making investments in expenditure items that had been sacrificed and needed resources to be filled. I refer to the EUR 300 million for local public transport, which is essential not for the regions and mayors, but for the citizens who benefit from the services provided by our local authorities. Then there are the 500 million for the Development and Cohesion Fund; the 40 million for the Social Policy Fund; the 30 million for the Right to Study Fund and the 40 million for the University funds. This is therefore an adjustment which not only shows an increase in VAT revenue or the possibility of reducing public expenditure, but also makes investments. It is a perfect balance what we achieve with this measure, which is the perfect representation of the fact that the economic policies of this Government, up to now, have achieved their objectives, have created stability and have given the country the necessary resources. I am also referring to the criticism of the lack of investment. Excuse me, but this accusation that occasionally returns is absolutely inadequate and devoid of any foundation. It was this government that finally gave local authorities the opportunity to invest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi]] He did so at the end of last year through the unblocking of the use of the administrative surplus, and therefore for all the virtuous administrations that had the right to spend the resources at their disposal. We have done this in financial terms with the fund of 400 million for investments for the municipalities, which have thus been able to carry out small interventions of public works already financed, shipbuilding and carried out in the first months of this year. We did so in the growth decree, with the fund of 500 million for energy efficiency always in favour of local authorities. This is a government that believes in investment and in the fact that local authorities must play a decisive role in this logic of development and growth, because they provide services to citizens, they do it quickly and they carry out those maintenances that are absolutely necessary, that our territory needs and our citizens have the right. These are the numbers. This is proof that things can work. The road is still long and difficult but, surely, the government has undertaken virtuous policies. The results, therefore, have been achieved not only within the framework of immigration and security policies - I certainly boast of which we are proud - but, finally, with this adjustment also of economic policies. The road is narrow and difficult but we are on the right path. Therefore, we can only be satisfied with the measure, which gives serenity to our families, to our businesses, to our economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u20	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u21	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the settlement fortunately contains the numbers that have helped to avoid triggering the infringement procedure against Italy for excessive debt. The European Commission has put pressure on our public accounts, which were under observation, not to be actually subject to an infringement procedure. In addition to the burden of the procedure, there would have been interventions on our economic policy that would probably have installed a new period of austerity. Instead, today's Italy needs everything except new austerity policies. At the same time, it does not need a further increase in current spending, especially if it is an end in itself and the result of electoral promises. This is the expenditure on citizenship income. We have seen, also in the composition of the demands, how this has concentrated mainly in some regions of the South. The practical result will be a very difficult, if not improbable, encounter with the job offer that is especially in the North. That is why we welcome with satisfaction the new balances of Decree-Law No 61 of 2 July, which record a lower expenditure of 1.5 billion euros for the lower demands of citizenship income and 100 quota. It must be said that this saving in expenditure is estimated in a conservative way. Other observers - such as the Observatory directed by Cottarelli and the Centre for Studies and Research on social security itineraries, for which Brambilla is responsible - estimate up to a little less than three billion the effects of the minor requests for these two interventions. For us, who considered, and believe, the income of citizenship an unfair measure and quota 100 a measure to be taken after more important measures for growth, it is, therefore, good news. However, we note that with the billion and a half saved, the total amount of the deficit reduction amounts to about 7.6 billion. In fact, the improvement of net debt resulting from the proposals of the settlement bill and from the additional resources amounts to a total of 6.1 billion. Definitely, the reduction in net debt also made it possible to improve the value of the debt-to-GDP ratio. So, by summing up, it improves net debt, reduces the debt-to-GDP ratio and releases resources for the following years. On the numbers of the adjustment will be based the new programming in the Update Note to the DEF, which will reach us after the first half of September, and, by mid-October, the figures of the budget law for 2020, unfortunately in a climate of daily political skirmishes among the members of the majority, which does not give guarantees that in September will be in charge a strong government. The money of the new figures posted in and out have in fact outlined a picture in improvement of the public accounts, which has reduced the deficit of 2019 to little more than 2% (almost the fateful 2.04 percent, value of the last maneuver). Positive news also comes from the 2018 statement, which this time is the sum of the numbers of the Silver Gentiloni Government, until 31 May, and, from 1 June, of the Count Government. It, however, pays particular attention to the changes in the balance sheet and the numbers of the 2018 settlement approved under the current Government. The result is a surplus in the management of almost €24 billion. These are, in short, numbers that bring this government back to earth and must induce it to make a maneuver when it comes to growth. We cannot resign ourselves to a growth of 0.1%, which sees us last in Europe, but also one of the worst performances in the world. Forza Italia, which with the party of vice president Salvini had shared the economic program presented for the election campaign, had highlighted since the budget law last December the risk of going through an infringement procedure. Above all, it had evidenced too generous numbers on the current expenditure and a low impact on the yards, moreover not modified from the so-called decree unblocks yards. I would like to remind you that there are, to date, at least 16 billion euros still for works that can already be done. Today those things are also said by the Vice Premier and leader of the League - if you allow us - with the guilty delay of several months. The so-called growth decree then accepted many of the center-right recipes for incentives to companies that invest and innovate, even if confusedly and with inadequate financial appropriations - only 400 million euros - to support these initiatives. As you can see, the comparison between numbers is merciless: 14 billion, now down by 1.5, for the two measures flag and 400 million to move a country that is almost stationary; 14 billion on the one hand and 400 million on the other. The figure of 0.1% of growth is what it is indicating, namely that the country is still. The new numbers of the adjustment, although improved, leave intact the criticism of an economic maneuver that not only did nothing to revive the Italian economy, but also introduced measures to slow it down. And very little has been done for the jobs: it is now evident from the INPS data that, while increasing the number of workers by a few thousand units, it has decreased that of the hours worked, photographing an increasingly poor Italy, having average incomes decreasing. Today, only those figures that see a reduction in current expenditure and, above all, the reduction in expenditure on citizenship income must be welcomed, which will, unfortunately, prove to be an ineffective measure to include beneficiaries in the world of work. There will be a lower replacement rate in both the public and private sectors. On the basis of the 2019 adjustment numbers, the 2020 maneuver, which will have to be monitored and updated as early as 20 September, is therefore outlined. Remove yourselves - let's get out of the head - that only with the numbers of this settlement and the decisions for next year the economy will be able to start again. The country asks to get out of the torpor, demands more certainty and demands a climate of trust and a political and economic habitat that brings back the fathers of the family and the enterprises - moreover in Italy often coincide - to invest in their future and that of their children. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next budget law will require the government to make a restrictive move. There's a 65 billion euro stag coming in. The bonaccia that blows over the yields of the Italian government bonds and the spread must not be deceived. The reduction of the spread is due both to the decision of the European Central Bank to continue in its path of monetary easing, perhaps with a new round of purchase of government bonds, and to the decision of the Giallorossi Government to carry out the corrective manoeuvre we are talking about, as imposed by the European Commission as the first step of the de facto commissionership to which Italy is subject. However, the problems with public finances are far from resolved. The next budget law, in fact, will force the Government to carry out a restrictive maximanovra that will resolve in the next three years, according to the calculations of One enterprise, in a stagnate of 65 billion euros, with the revenues previewed that will go from 827 to 893 billion euros, pairs to an increase of 8 percent. This is the first and most salty account that Italians will have to pay as a result of the increase in VAT rates included in the safeguard clauses, which will start from January 2020. One company has calculated that the tax burden will rise to over 47%. There will be an increase in VAT revenues of 42 billion to an increase of 16%. The result will be a further increase in the tax burden up to 47% in 2020. A company has launched this alarm. The weight of taxes on Italian taxpayers is asphyxiating. A dangerous trend must be stopped immediately. Other than reducing the tax burden that the government forces are promising to the sound of proposals for tax reform, from flat tax to the three rates, passing through the reduction of the tax wedge; families and businesses are now literally submerged in taxes and taxes to pay. Your promises remain unanswered simply because the money to realize them are not there and, indeed, the Treasury will be called to find 23 billion euros in order to avoid the increase VAT or through the cut of the tax expenditures of equal amount, which then is equivalent to an increase of the direct taxation, or through a maxi operation of spending review never realized so far, also because the Ministry of the economy and the finances still do not know what and where they intend to cut. When the Executive will be forced to show the real numbers of the maneuver, already starting from the Update Note of the Document of Economics and Finance, the Italians will understand that the pharaonic promises made by this Government are just a mockery. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian economy, the real economy, continues to have a growth rate of zero and to be strongly exposed to exogenous shocks, as the International Monetary Fund has also reminded us. Other than problems solved. Without decisive action to counter public debt and pro-growth economic policies, which are certainly not the welfare policies made so far by the Government, Italy will continue to stagnate and recession. (17.44) (FANTETTI follow). Since this year the Mezzogiorno is expected to return to the negative growth of GDP, with Confindustria that has noted that in the South one in two does not work; a record at European level, also effect of the depopulation of the industry, to which we have been witnessing for some time now, and a total absence of industrial policy and the anti-capitalist ideology that characterizes the Movimento 5 Stars. A government that is now fighting over everything, from European appointments to flat tax, certainly cannot provide the guarantee of political stability necessary to face the serious tax reform that the country needs and the consolidation of the state budget. Thus, while the majority of government quarrels, the economy is firm and taxes increase. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u22	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that I will have to be called back by the President in this speech, and I hope that I will respect that understanding. In fact, I believe that, to comment on a statement, but above all on the adjustment of the 2019 budget, it would be sufficient to take back what I had to say last winter, when we approved the 2019 budget law in Parliament. I still remember the Commission protest that they could not work on the budget law. I remember the sense of impotence that each of us, regardless of the political position, the party, the majority or the opposition, had when such an important law, in fact, was not analyzable, amendable and integrable by the parliamentary committees. I could therefore repeat the speech I made on behalf of Brothers of Italy on that occasion and repeat it this afternoon. However, I would like to say something about the 2019 settlement manoeuvre which, in fact, is nothing more than a corrective manoeuvre; a corrective manoeuvre which - according to the Government of Change - would never have been made and which, on the other hand, was necessarily made to respond very consistently to the recommendations, invitations and pressures of Brussels, of the European Union that wanted to call us back, under penalty of the infringement procedure. So it is a maneuver that, in fact, counts on about 6.1 billion on the one hand and 1.5 billion on the other, the first deriving from higher revenues mostly one-off and the second from the freezing of funds allocated for what was considered the principal policy of this government, that is, the income of citizenship. At this point, how can we comment, Mr President, if we are not talking about the incoherence of the Government which had previously celebrated the abolition of poverty with the introduction of the income of citizenship and which then, immediately recalled from Brussels, did nothing but take part of those funds, spared because they were not required and, instead of devoting them to social purposes, family policies, enterprise policies, birth policies, it has destined them to reduce the deficit, thus obeying the demands coming from Europe in advance and passively? So a step backwards, dear friends, of those who wanted to change things and then, in fact, did nothing but follow the path that has always been, for at least ten years, the Italian parliaments and governments travel, failing to their autonomy that has been more and more affected by the powers of Brussels. Instead, we of Brothers of Italy demanded, in the budget law of last year, fiscal policies, policies for growth, flat tax. These things are being discussed, but they are never translated into concrete acts. The flat tax, the policies to encourage births, the family policies: well, we would have liked to see - I repeat - first of all in the mother law that is the law passed in December last year, but perhaps also to a small extent in the arrangement approved last month, some signal in terms of reducing the tax wedge, in terms of responses to social and economic policies, of which this country is widely in need. Unfortunately, we have not noticed any of this. I would add that the certainly difficult moment that our country is experiencing, but that the whole of Europe is also living, would also require greater coherence, a greater unitary direction of the Government, and when I happen to read, like last week, an interview with an important national newspaper of a Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs Castelli, who in fact, ladies and gentlemen, says that the flat tax does not have to be done, that on the safe deposit boxes it is better not to waste time - and I address the friends of the League - here, when we read these contradictions on tax policies or investments, then I wonder, as a citizen and as a professional even before as representative of Brothers of Italy, what figure are we doing before investors and entrepreneurs? The figure of a government that with one hand says one thing and the other says another. A government that is not capable of having a right or wrong line, whether it is a line of clarity, a line that is decisive on investment yes or no, whether it is decisive on assistantism yes or no. No, we don't: we're constantly boating from one side to the other, trying to give a little cheer from here and a little cheer from there. These are the budgetary policies that have to move for the recovery of the country, and instead none of this happens, indeed, even the government's responses to our demands and recommendations are vain, are negative. I was thinking these days about an answer to a question from Mise, where we were told in terms of drills, in terms of policies on the search for hydrocarbons, that so much will be spent about 500 million euros in burdens and sanctions on the State for the suspensive ones that have been implemented. Then perhaps, with so much emphasis, he will say that with the reform of Parliament, which will in fact deprive many territories of representation, 500 million will be saved per year. But if you save 500 million on the one hand, on the other, you throw them into sanctions, which are a consequence of the fact that you wanted to stop development. There is therefore a continuing contradiction in the policy of this Government, which we then read in the budget figures of the same general statement that, while representing the accounts of different Governments (Government Gentiloni Silveri first and Government Count then), in fact in the numbers it says more current expenditure and less capital expenditure. It is therefore a government - I repeat - which cannot make a coherent, unified and determined policy in one direction rather than another. This is the political reflection which I find necessary in the general debate. On this Brothers of Italy he will try to engage in this Parliament, if you will insist on staying here and wanting to lead the country without having a fundamental political clarity. As Brothers of Italy we will be here to remind you of these things: we will do so in the Commission and in the Chamber. The hope, however, is that the next financial maneuvers and the next budget laws will be made by a truly cohesive political majority, able to give an address to the country and who knows how to look up Europe, without going to pity and passively listen to European recommendations, but trying to impose a policy that is really in the interest of Italians, entrepreneurs and those foreign investors who believe in Italy, but little in this Government. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u24	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u25	Mr President, I will not take much time in this House to talk about the general accounts and the adjustment of the budget. The general statement is a very important measure, which serves to photograph the economic and financial situation of the country recorded last year and, above all, to make the comparison between the year just passed and the previous year. I have to say that the current majority and the current government, although they have inherited an economic and financial situation which is not easy for a budget law made by other political forces, have managed to close the year in a sufficiently good way to be able to be satisfied. From the point of view of the investigations it is useful to point out that, on the front of the final revenues, things in 2018 went better than in 2017, with 591 billion against 582 of the previous year. The same can be said for the final expenses, where the saving is still not more than half a billion. In all this it can be pointed out that, with regard to the use of the market, from 281 billion loans in 2017 we have dropped, perhaps fortunately, to 249 billion and this is certainly a good signal to be taken into account. Another obvious fact worthy of mention is that we continue to make primary surplus: from 24 billion in 2017, we managed to reach 27 billion in 2018, which means that, if we subtract expenditure, the result is 27 billion: we talk about primary surplus, so there are no interests, with which we know that unfortunately we go further. It is a burden that we have been carrying for many years and we are doing everything possible with all the actions put in place by this Government and this majority in order to reduce the cost of interest. From this point of view, the data we have been able to obtain in the last few weeks makes us hope, since the spread has dropped almost to the 200 basis points: last week we also dropped to lower values and this gives us a good hope to continue to do better. If we can do better, we could say that we will end 2019 with a 2.04 percent deficit-GDP ratio, in the sense that we will surely be able to keep what we promised. However, in 2020, with savings on interest rates that could grow, we could really fall to even lower levels: this is definitely a very good thing. Also in 2018 it must be remembered that we have managed to reverse the route for what concerns the investments: we have managed to increase the quota on the gross fixed investments of 20.9%. This is a sharp reversal of the trend, as investment has continued to decline over the last ten years. Luckily, we managed to grow them. These are the facts. Therefore, although this majority and this Government have inherited a difficult situation, they have managed to close 2018 in a manner that respects the commitments made at European level. Moving on to the adjustment measures, it is useful to point out that, together with the savings of 1.5 billion euros that we will be able to obtain from 100 quota and citizenship income (saving that we crystallized last week with the conversion into law in the Senate of Decree-Law 2 July 2019, n. 61), we will be able to arrive at a correction of the budget balance for 2019 of 7.6 billion euros. This € 7.6 billion improvement in government accounts is due to higher revenues from the Bank of Italy and the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. These are more useful to which we can combine the greatest profits we will make with the famous rules on scrapping. These measures can also become structural, given that the profits from the Bank of Italy derive from the laws of the State, so we can be sure that they will continue to exist. That gives us hope for the public finances. Moreover, we remember that the profits of the Bank of Italy also derive from the measures made on the famous quantitative easing. Since with the government bonds bought in the past years actually Bank of Italy manages to get more profits, thanks to our rates on government bonds, let's say that we can be not proud, but satisfied. We have achieved a correction of this magnitude without putting our hands in the pocket of the Italians: this is a fundamental thing to remember. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a corrective measure - I repeat - made without having put your hands in the pocket of the Italians. We really managed to make good improvements in public finances without increasing taxes. It should therefore be stressed that we must continue on this path. We need to lay solid foundations on which we can set expansive measures already this year with the next budget law, but above all with a view to the coming year, so for 2020. I want to go back to the subject of interest. Well, if we continue on this line, then with these savings on interest, in 2020 we could even reach 1.7% of the deficit-GDP ratio, logically not neglecting the fact that we will have to do everything we can to get rid of the famous safeguard clauses that weigh down - and will weigh down, if we do not find equivalent measures - the public accounts. I mean, it's not just a corrective measure, but this adjustment has also allowed us to do great things about structural measures that are useful to our country. For example, we have managed to consolidate the Development and Cohesion Fund with half a billion more: it is those funds that help our country, and above all our South to do great things and to make great investments. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Lunesu]] We bet another 500 million on that. That is why we must be absolutely brave and hopeful for the year to come. More expenditure is to testify that the adjustment manoeuvre we are preparing to vote is not only designed in corrective terms, but also allows us to do something else. Mr President, I would just like to remind you that the 5 Star Movement in recent years, but especially in this last year when the current majority is in the government, has managed to do great things, for example on the banking sector. We have not completely erased what has been done in the past years, but we have managed to consolidate the banks' accounts. This is due to measures that we have managed to correct. See, for example, the credit guarantees that have deteriorated: we have succeeded in the last measures that have been completed to ensure that the improper use on which we had some doubts was limited. This is a measure that has allowed us to consolidate the accounts of banks without putting our hands in the pocket of the Italians. This is absolutely important. We have managed to prevent crisis situations. This is also very important. We must continue on this path. Speaking also of the tax, I am referring to this: we need to make a real disclosure, to identify where the evasion takes place, but we do not have to do it with the investigations: we have to do it in a gentle way. We have been able to do so with e-invoicing and already the data on higher VAT revenues testify to this, with almost 5% more every month. We must continue to do the same, for example by being able to convince citizens, taxpayers and exhibitors that they can join in a gentle disclosure, by denouncing how much they earn in a sweet way, by means of instruments that can, perhaps, encourage both citizens and exhibitors and entrepreneurs to bring out those capitals, those revenues that are not currently declared. Well, it can be done with incentives. Mr President, this year we have done a lot of things, which, in my opinion, have led to social justice, starting with the 100 quota and the income of citizenship. We managed to bring back something more in terms of serenity in the family. Families can really look better at everyday life, they can face expenses that they couldn't do before. We have thus managed to consolidate domestic demand, which is very useful, especially for our gross domestic product and for tax revenues. Similarly, we have done much in the field of justice, not only social but also administrative, justice for citizens, justice for families. With the so-called scrambled decree we really managed to set a starting point, which had never been done in recent years. We really managed to keep those people who behaved badly towards the public administration away from the administration and continue on this path. At the same time, with the code red we managed to do things that in the past years had not been able to do. President, we have closed 2018 and we are about to end 2019 with really rosy views; we are happy about this, because we are taking forward the initiatives we have promised to Italian citizens, which we have set in a government contract, which are really good and which we are leading to consolidation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u26	The joint general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u27	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1387, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u28	Mr President, since the speeches concerned in particular the adjustment and there were no comments on the report, I have nothing to add to my initial report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1388, Senator Pirro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u30	Mr President, it seems that we still have to explain why this is not a corrective manoeuvre. Since we do not want to think that this is the usual instrumental criticism, we reiterate that the combined arrangement of the decree on public finance, approved last week, and the bill on budgetary adjustment allowed us to recover 7.6 billion euros in order to achieve the objective of the deficit-GDP ratio at 2% in 2019 and to avoid the infringement procedure. But these are not in the least resources obtained from new taxes, tax increases or expenditure cuts, but from lower expenditure and higher revenue than anticipated. Budgetary adjustment allows us, therefore, to act on a sound basis in order to continue with our economic policies. I am sorry that oppositions indulge in improbable numerical alchemies to deny the excellent results achieved so far by the Government and the majority who support it. You tell us that 0.1% of GDP growth in 2019 is too little. No one claims that Italy, which is Europe's second manufacture and the seventh world power, can be satisfied with this rate of growth; but, apart from the fact that we are counting on improving this estimate already in the second part of the year, it has to be said that the whole European context is slowing down, with Germany estimating a growth of around 0.5%, and it is to be remembered that we came from two negative quarters at the end of 2018, the legacy of the previous Government. In this regard, I would like to re-read what was written by the then Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni Silveri and the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Padoan, in their latest Document of Economics and Finance, resolved by the Council of Ministers of 26 April 2018. Trace the macro-economic and public finance framework trend, Gentiloni Silveri and Padoan wrote that in 2017 GDP growth increased visibly, driven by the favourable global economic situation, by the monetary policy of the eurozone, thus by exogenous factors. Soon after they wrote that the outlook remains favourable also for 2018, the year in which an increase of 1.5% is expected. Too bad Istat then certified that 2018 GDP grew by 0.9%, other than 1.5 percent. This is about who points the index today on the wrong predictions. But it doesn't end here, because Gentiloni Silveri and Padoan always added the following: However, it should be stressed that at global level there are risks associated with fearful protectionist policies and the appreciation of the euro. (...) GDP is expected to slow down slightly over the next few years, in line with expectations for the international economic cycle. You yourselves knew that there was a slowdown and that your policies would be completely ineffective in trying to counter it. As for the criticism of investments that do not start again, here - I always address my colleagues in the PD - there is also a bit of a nerve on your part. Excuse me if I always use your Economy and Finance Document of April 26, 2018, but right there you wrote that public investment continues to suffer from the strong reduction of capital appropriations operated in the hardest years of the crisis; for their full relaunch we will have to continue to insist on more efficient procedures of design, project management and monitoring of expenditure. In short, your last economic and financial document candidly admitted that on public investment your governments were unable to do anything. COMINANCES (PD). Read it well! You didn't read it well. Mr Pirro, rapporteur on draft law No 1388. I read it well, you forgot. Instead, the General Accounting of the State, a few weeks ago, gave us data that in the first half of 2019 the capital investments of local authorities have finally grown by 17%. All this thanks to the unblocking of the management surpluses, which we have been able to perfect thanks to a decision of the Constitutional Court, and thanks to the rule of our maneuver that has allocated 400 million euros for works to secure the territory in the small municipalities. "Il Sole 24 ORE" is a newspaper that is not really a friend of the Movimento 5 Stars, and has certified that these sums have already been contracted at 95 percent, calling it a "miracle," especially if one considers - as it has still written - Il Sole 24 ORE" - that until yesterday in Italy they served from an average of two to eight years to move from financing to construction site. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] And soon will be added another 500 million that we have allocated in the decree growth in order to allow the municipalities to put on the yard works of energy efficiency and sustainable development. Colleagues, you are all talking about a failure or failure of citizenship income and a 100th share. We think we did just at the beginning of the prudential estimates. These data confirm what we have always argued: Italians are not the idlers eager to stay on the couch that you have tried at all costs to paint. The use of these support and start-up measures has only been made by those who really needed them and the penalties and measures envisaged to discourage any smarts have been sufficient to discourage them even from applying. Even 100 shares had a lower draw than expected, because Italians like to work, contrary to what you support. [[Comments of Senator Beginini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u31	Colleagues, please speak to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u32	Please finish. Mr Pirro, rapporteur on draft law No 1388. These results, beyond all your narratives in the opposite direction, are accompanied by positive data on the work. I remember them to refresh your memory a little bit. For the first time since 1977, i.e. since historical series existed, the employment rate has never been so high, reaching 59 percent. For the first time since 2012, the year of the cold austerity inaugurated by the Government of Technicians and Professors, unemployment has fallen below the psychological threshold of 10%: we are at 9.9 percent. Not to mention the spread, which your catastrophist cassandre saw as the black hole destined to swallow the country. The differential dropped to around 190 points, with the yield of ten-year bonds around 1.6%, below the psychological threshold of 2 percent. Of course, the withdrawal by the European Union of the infringement procedure, which would have had no solid basis, and the words with which Draghi, outgoing President of the ECB, made it clear that the central bank is ready to put in place new monetary stimulus. It is equally true, however, that the spread had begun to descend much earlier, demonstrating that the markets had already metabolized a stable Italy, eager to recover its space. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In the same way, once again it has been seen that all the alarmism you raised about the effects of the spread on mortgages has turned out to be what it is: a hoax. The other day, in fact, Il Sole 24 Ore has always reminded us that today the rates of loans on the house are at historical minima: those at fixed rate are on average 1.7%, while they were 6 percent in 2012 and 2.3% in 2016; those with variable rate now have an average cost of 0.88 percent, distant light years from 3.7 percent in 2012 and however lower than 1.23 percent three years ago. In short, until now you have also done cosmetic operations on the spending review, obtaining results equal to zero, and now bet the index. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] GINETTI (PD). It's going off the charts! Mr Pirro, rapporteur on draft law No 1388. Unlike you, we are also working at the Ministry of Economics and Finance on a comprehensive rationalization plan. On this and on other results you will see, don't worry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u33	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u34	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u35	I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the articles of the accounts has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u36	Mr President, I would like to briefly outline all the amendments which I signed, which have in common the fact that they indicate in favour of the family and social inclusion and in favour of reducing the tax wedge, so in this case, in favour of businesses. Finally, Amendment 1.Tab.8.1 concerns security, in particular by proposing an increase in the budget of the Carabinieri's weapon for the protection of public order and security. These amendments have already been rejected by the majority in the Commission on the substance and I therefore believe that they will have no other destiny in this House, but let me say that, since the adjustment is a document of political value and choice - we will have the opportunity to repeat it also in the final explanation of vote - this means being deaf and not realizing that the biggest problem in the country is about families and, consequently, about demography. It is in fact a problem of public order, which concerns our growth, the Italians, who need help. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.Tab.2.3 on mergers of municipalities. We have already had the opportunity to talk about this in this House: the appropriations have not been adjusted and the Government has in fact failed to reach a pact signed with dozens and dozens of municipalities, which have chosen to merge, being able to rely, according to law, on a generous amount of contributions, which this year are cut on average by 40%. With this amendment we are calling for these funds to be adjusted: this is not a huge figure, because we are talking about about 31 million euros, which represent a drop in a public budget of hundreds of billion euros, but which have a very large symbolic value and a very substantial value for the local communities concerned, whose citizens have freely decided, through referendums, to aggregate the municipalities of origin and have also done so on the basis of the contributions provided for by the law for ten years. If these contributions are cut out of the blue, this pact is broken and the communities concerned are damaged. We therefore call on the Government to address this problem and to respond to the demands of the local authorities and the ANCI, by approving this amendment and by remedying a serious problem which has arisen in recent weeks. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u38	The remaining amendments and the agenda are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u39	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. I propose a rewording of the agenda G1,100, which we urge you to accept in this way as a recommendation. In the part of the commitment we propose to replace the first words with the following: It invites the Government to consider taking measures to refinance the Municipal Solidarity Fund.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u40	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u41	Senator Misiani, do you accept the rewording of the agenda? Mr Misiani (PD). No, Mr President, let us vote as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u42	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.1, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.2, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.3, tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.1, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.2, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.3, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.4.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.1, tabled by Senator Pichetto Fratin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Misiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This led to the conclusion of the examination of the articles of the arrangement.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u45	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Autonomous Group will abstain on the report and on the adjustment. The report has a technical function, but it is not without elements of reflection, therefore possible direction on economic policy. It is okay that the management of competence has achieved in 2018 an improvement of the balances regarding the definitive forecasts: also in comparison with the previous year, the final figures show an improvement both of the net balance to be financed and of the recourse to the market (i.e. from 29 billion in 2017 to 19.9 billion in 2018 regarding the balance to be financed and from 271 billion in 2017 to 225 billion in 2018 regarding the recourse to the market). The final revenue item shows an increase compared to 2017, but this is mainly due to tax revenues and, in particular, to checks in the order of 8 billion for VAT, while virtually all other entry items are reduced. What is most striking, however, is the type of increase in expenditure. Current expenditure has increased (by 2.4 per cent) but capital expenditure has decreased (by 21.5%). This means that on the one hand the country system costs more, but on the other it does not favour public investment. Public administrations have long complained about the difficulty of developing projects for the improvement of infrastructure in the country, as well as to open the construction sites of projects already funded. The only ones who with great difficulty manage to do this are the Municipalities, but it is clear that this is not enough. In other words, it is difficult to put in place those reforms that allow our economy to grow. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u46	Colleagues, it's not difficult to listen, we can do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u47	Please, Senator Steger. STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). There are therefore more yards needed, particularly in those areas which are lagging behind in infrastructure; it is necessary because public investment, in particular on the infrastructure system, is the most likely to have that multiplier effect for the recovery and growth of the territories. Even reading the data on the adjustment this macro- trend is confirmed. Current expenditure rises and does so to a greater extent than tax revenue, where there is a decrease of the order of 7 billion euros; revenue that, it is worth repeating, are linked almost exclusively to the recovery of VAT, which will increase if you will not find the way to defuse the safeguard clauses, thus leading to a foreseeable reduction in consumption and a further decrease in revenues. This overall trend between accounting and settlement tells us of a problem that has a structural matrix and that therefore would require interventions that address the issue as a whole. Despite repeated legislative interventions, including the last ones adopted in recent months in Parliament, it is not possible to prepare a real policy of simplification of bureaucracy and legal certainty, which are the fundamental reasons for the country's structural limits. A recent inquiry by the "Corriere della Sera" told how Italians are imprisoned in a real bureaucratic forest, which, despite digitalization, continues to take almost three hundred hours a year to citizens. The CGIA di Mestre has calculated that in 2018 the costs of the administrative burdens already estimated by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers have doubled as an amount charged every year on Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. All this against a public administration that, for efficiency and quality, is in the low ranking of European countries, i.e. 23a out of 28 countries under consideration. The question therefore arises as to what policies this Government will be able to put in place for development. The latest European data tell us that Italy is a taillight on growth. The infringement procedure for excessive debt has been avoided thanks to the increased dividends of public companies and the increased VAT revenue from e-invoicing. It is therefore clear that, both on the debt side and on the growth side, we are always in a situation that is at the limit. We need policies of strong bureaucratic relief, we must finally tackle the structural problems: the infrastructure in certain parts of the country, the real unblocking of the yards, a public system that accompanies private investments. We need forward-looking policies, which do not just think about the immediate response in public opinion. The country system really needs it. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u49	I'll do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u50	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we already had the opportunity to discuss, last week, the Decree-Law on urgent measures to improve public finance balances. I want to pay attention to the remarks made by the rapporteur and, therefore, I refer to the title of the decree-law: the correction of accounts. It is not a maneuver, I do not know what it is: it is a correction of the accounts, as is stated in the title of the decree and, therefore, the rapporteur will also agree. Now, many of the arguments that will motivate our vote against, both the statement and the settlement, are linked to a number of issues that we have already raised. I do not want to take back what we said last week, but there is still one advice I repeat. You describe a brilliant reality: you were very good, you corrected the accounts and you reduced the debt. You have been extraordinary, however, beyond propaganda, we are stagnating: we will be fine if we achieve a 0.1% growth. You did not give me an answer, which I expected today, in relation to the hours worked less. I repeat: at least one billion hours worked less; you did not give me an answer. As has been pointed out, Italy is the second European manufacture, but we are in very serious difficulty. I would also like to say, with regard to the rhetoric of small and medium-sized enterprises, that the rates of home loans are different: many medium-sized enterprises, as you should know, have difficulty accessing credit because they do not have credit ratings, because they do not meet the standards. This, however, puts in a very negative way the mechanisms of infiltration of criminal capital into the industrial system of our country. I have not seen a maneuver, which would be very simple and which I propose for the next budget law: we make a system of counter-guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, which may be guaranteed by the Cassa depositi e loani, so that we can overcome the barrier to the access of small and medium-sized enterprises to credit. Third element: you are the ones who talk to the people, we are not. But did you talk to a craftsman? Artisans who do not have companies that operate on the net with very high export percentages, those that work on the internal market, are in great difficulty. I didn't see an intervention from this point of view. But let us come to the most critical point: private investment has decreased. You have made a deserving measure, that of investment for small municipalities. This is a good thing, which I welcome as such (I would point out that we had made a much more significant proposal in the budget debate to allow investment to take place). However, investments account for 7.4% of Italian public expenditure. In 2019, it is 49 billion euros: -0.3 compared to 2018. The point is this: there can never be growth in this country if there is no real, strategic policy on investment; policy that, I'm sorry, objectively you don't have. I therefore ask you a few questions. I would like to understand what happened to him and at what point is InvestItalia. Where is InvestItalia, what is it doing and how does it connect with the directional booth Strategy Italy? What is the strategy for Italy? What is Strategy Italy doing? Maybe you haven't made the deal on InvestItalia's armchairs yet. I repeat, you may not have done so yet, but nothing is moving. And here - I regret to say it, but I declare it with energy - we are really faced with a mockery of the Italians. I have to say quite frankly that you have destructured the management booths of the previous government (you have done something like this to put your representatives there) and it is all blocked. I decided to ask questions in my explanation of vote, because it is more useful, otherwise you always tell me your narration: every day in the Senate we do one or two historical things. Well, I'll ask you some questions. Where's InvestItalia? Who is and who has the governance of InvestItalia? What did he do? When you tell me, I'll be happy. In fact, there is no investment policy. We then challenge you - and we proposed this to you in the context of the budget law, which we have not been able to discuss - to make a real infrastructure plan, ecological transformation of the economy and the security of the territory. We overcome the surface areas, the agencies above, below and crossed and give to those who know how to do this work - starting from the municipalities - the possibility to finally make a maneuver able to guarantee the growth of the Country: a green plan that is able to make a jump to Italy. We will see in the budget maneuver. Finally, there is another question: with reference to the safeguard clauses you have not yet explained to us how you will do so. I do not know exactly what the budget will be worth; the clause will be worth at least EUR 28 billion, plus, with unchanged policies, the increase in costs. Then there is the theme of flat tax. You know our position on this: progressivity is destroyed, which is an element of equity. However, how will you finance the flat tax? Here I address my colleagues and colleagues at the Movimento 5 Stars, because the League has already said how it wants to finance the flat tax, that is, with a new pardon. No, the word "condon" cannot be said; we cannot speak of a new pardon, because Di Maio says he has never made condons. You only made six. Yes, in various measures there are about six condones. You'll call it another way, but will you finance the measure like that? And yet, there is a positive fact that, objectively - you must recognize it - with all the problems that you blame the previous government, is due to the past Executive. I am referring to e-invoicing, which tells us what is the extraordinary space to recover escape. Then I ask you: will you lower the limit for the use of cash? Will you use the new technologies to make a real fight against evasion? There are studies that attest that simply using computer science and networking the system, it is possible to recover at least 21 billion of the 130 billion euros of tax evasion recalled by the Bank of Italy. 18.42 p.m. (Herrans follow). With your extraordinary successes, however, you do not intervene in any way on the strategic and structural factors of the country. That is why our vote is genuinely against it. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u53	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, just as we did last week with Decree-Law No 61 on urgent measures to improve public finance balances, we are taking note of a series of distortions, contradictions and a necessary correction of accounts, which is useful in order not to incur the very dangerous infringement procedure by the European Union. Reaffirming what I said about the decree-law in my last speech in this House, I believe that this issue is all political and requires a review of the relationship between Italy and Europe. A Europe so present when it comes to public finances, yet so far away when it should be there, for example, when we face uncontrolled immigration on our coasts and on our ports. But let us come to the accounts for budgetary adjustment. The adjustment has aspects that seem to be positive as a whole because the changes it proposes to make result in an improvement in the net balance to be financed, amounting to €1.9 billion in terms of competence and €3.3 billion in terms of cash. The technical report also shows a very clear improvement in net debt of €5.6 billion. We could say that everything is fine, but that is not the case: going to look at the budget items arranged by each Ministry, it is clear why we cannot vote in favour of the adjustment to our examination. I try to list some figures that have jumped in my eyes on the difference between what is allocated in the 2019 budget law and the corresponding figures laid down, which raise doubts about what policies we intend to implement for our country. In the Ministry of Economy and Finance budget, for example, on competitiveness and business development, the adjustment cuts 8%, which also includes a 26% reduction on business incentives for support interventions. Among the budget items of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport we find an 11% cut on the development and safety of road mobility and even a 20% reduction on rail systems, which means the development and safety of rail transport. In short, President, we dream of better roads and railways, the TAV and not only, the government instead cuts on infrastructure investments. Unfortunately, we do not even find significant increases in expenditure on families. On the contrary, we find, always in the voices of competence of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, an increase of 10% of the budget item dedicated to immigration, reception, and guarantee of rights and all destined to relations with religious confessions. According to the figures I have listed, we cannot help but think of a country and a government that does not help its businesses, that does not help families and does not invest in the future of their children. An arrangement that is far from an investment in the future. However, the government hides behind the total numbers and can then be considered satisfied in this way. With this settlement, in fact, the Commission can be considered quiet because the infringement procedure is averted, and therefore for a while Europe will not put pressure on us, but we are not clear what will happen in the future. In September, in a month and a half, the budget law 2020 will have to be drawn up. And I, as Senator Errani has already done, ask questions and ask the government: how do you intend to prevent the increase in VAT? Are there, and where, the resources to do so? How can we reduce taxation, the real sword of Damocles for families and businesses? Are you going to introduce the flat tax as we of Brothers of Italy loudly ask? Are you finally going to introduce concrete measures to support families and the birth rate? But above all, what are you going to do with Europe monitoring our accounts so closely? Does this Government intend to take courage and take measures that really re-launch for our economy and our social system and see first of all a reduction in the tax burden, or does it intend to repeat last year's theater, President, when it first showed the muscles to Europe and then bent its head and moved a zero comma on the deficit-GDP ratio to adapt? Unfortunately, we are in the presence of an executive which is the result of a compromise between two political forces that would normally not be together and would make a tough and reciprocal opposition. An executive of this kind can only live a day. Living in the day you can't make plans. And this lack of planning is reflected in an absence of vision and future programming. Once again they weigh on the public accounts, and also reflect on this settlement, the contradictory choices of a Government that remains a hybrid between a sensible soul and thinking about development, which is that of the League, and a soul that is the daughter of vetoes and social resentment. Social resentment is incompatible with the development of the country. Coherence and development cannot lie in this union of opposing souls but only in a center-right union that sees as the main pivot the League together with the Brothers of Italy. These accounts that we are about to put to the vote expose the impossibility of co-existing with two visions of the world. We ask the friends of the League to give this country a Government consistent with what the majority of Italians ask, a Government capable of defending national interests, of defending borders, of giving opportunities to young people and not charity to those who do nothing. For us the social state is increasing possibilities, not rewarding laziness. This country has great public works to do, it has great appointments to respect, it is no longer time for vetoes. Together with the League we govern the most important Italian regions, implementing policies capable of hope and development. We do not understand this obstinacy of the League to the impossible coexistence with the 5 Star Movement. It is not a mystery that this Government only fights and is divided over everything. One day yes and the other the newspapers also talk about government crisis, government crisis at the end of the line, early elections. This instability is the real weakness of our country system. With conscience and responsibility we vote against this measure because the numbers produced by this Government add nothing to the non-answers to the problems of the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u56	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, in a normal country, the debate on accounting and settlement would be very important on the parliamentary agenda. Not in Italy: there is a lot about the budget law and the choices of perspective and there is very little discussion about what it has been, about the results obtained from the budgetary cycle and the adjustment of the current budget. In fact, it is a useful discussion to take stock of the state of public finance, the results of our country's economic and budgetary policy. The context in which this debate takes place is undoubtedly difficult, we have mentioned it several times: commercial and geopolitical tensions that impact on the development of the global economy and the euro zone; slowing down of growth in many advanced economies, including ours; limits and fragility of a model of hyperfinancialized development that, despite the great crisis and ten years from the same, floats on a flood of public and private debt. We should discuss first of all this and how to deal with the effects of the technological revolution which will affect millions of workers in this country, with budgetary choices, by considering what we are devoting to the training and retraining of workers. We should also discuss what instruments and policies we are putting in place to reduce the inequalities and social insecurity that are undermining the stability of our democracies. We should discuss how to build a new social contract in the country with budgetary policy, calling into question the distribution of the tax burden, the welfare structure. We should discuss how to reduce the precariousness of work and how to make school and education a real platform for equal opportunities for our young people. Speaking of reporting and settling, we should discuss how to deal with the environmental crisis with budgetary choices, which is not a topic for the next generations, but is a problem for our generation, which is having dramatic effects today and which we constantly underestimate in the public debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In our country, instead, we talk about something else; talk about something else, because you do not want to discuss the enormous economic and social problems we face. You - I mean the majority and the government - celebrated with champagne the non-infringement procedure and the decrease of spread: it is undoubtedly good news, although it makes a little'smiling that the spread, which was not a problem for you when it was 250 and 300, now that it has suddenly come down becomes a major topic of economic policy, but so much so. The point is that the non-infringement procedure and the decrease of the spread take place against a very heavy maneuver of 7.6 billion euros, to which are added the expenditure frozen in the budget law and finally cut in the adjustment. This arrangement contains the choices of that maneuver and the greater revenues due, in the first place, to the electronic invoicing introduced with courage by the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments and which you have denied and tried to disassemble: you have not done so and today you enjoy the benefits. This adjustment takes into account savings from 100 percent and citizenship income. It is good news, but it should ask questions about the goodness of these policies, whether or not a measure such as a 100 quota, which you have presented as the end of the Fornero law and which is being revealed instead for what it is: a transitional measure that for 30% of those who would be entitled to it turned out to be inconvenient. This arrangement contains a cut of EUR 1.4 billion to the competitiveness and development mission, in the sense that failure to initiate the infringement procedure takes place at the expense of businesses and the production system, which will have far less funding than was initially foreseen in the budget. Finally, this arrangement does not reinstate, as we asked, the contributions for the municipalities set up by merger. It is a small figure from the point of view of the overall economy - as we said before, we asked for 30 million euros more - but it is very significant for the local communities concerned and gives the idea of the disinterest with which you look at the system of autonomy, which needs to join and to play team to face the challenges of the future. This was the meaning of the contributions for mergers that remain freely decided by the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And you're questioning them, because you cut 40% of the contributions these local communities had to make. The EUR 7.6 billion maneuver tells us one thing: that your accounts were not in order, and that is why you had to make this settlement, you had to take note of the higher expenses and you had to cut important expenses for the future of the country. The accounts are now in order, but what is not in order is the economy of our country. Today the International Monetary Fund has told us two things. The first is that the growth in 2019 is completely firm: + 0.1 percent; it is the same figure that gave the Bank of Italy and the Parliamentary Budget Office. The second thing the Monetary Fund tells us is that the gap in our growth from the rest of the euro area is widening: it was 0.7 points in 2017, it rose to one point in 2018 and will rise to 1.2 points this year. We grew less than others even before, but this gap is widening: it has doubled in two years. This fact calls into question your economic policy, because all economies are slowing down, but the Italian one has stopped and the gap with the rest of Europe has widened. This is linked to an economic policy, like the one you put on the field, all focused on the present, on the welfare expenses for immediate consent, on the elections immediately following, and has totally disinterested in the future of this country. In fact, she has not invested in school and research; she has been disinterested in young people and investment; she has not addressed the issue of the recovery of tax evasion, which is the key to permanently reducing taxes; she has made seventeen tax allowances to collect immediate consent in the country. These knots, Mr President, are coming to the comb one after the other, and little by little the decrees-laws unblock yards and growth to reverse this situation. 2020 is a great unknown and this is the result of your economic policy. The Parliamentary Budget Office has told us that we need EUR 28 billion next year only to stop the increase in VAT, essentially at unchanged policies. And no one's telling us around the government and the majority where you're gonna find this money. [[Applause from the PD Group]] How will you prevent Italian citizens from finding VAT from 22 to 25.2% and from 10 to 13%, when they go shopping, from 1 January 2020? Other than flat tax, other than reduction of the tax wedge, other than promises on the car stamp and the Rai canon, as we have felt these days! The truth is that we are going towards the fragile autumn from the economic and financial point of view, with a country in stagnation, in which the extraordinary integration fund has doubled; with a country that is a special observation in Europe and in the international financial markets. In fact, the spread has dropped (and is good), but today, unfortunately, unlike a year ago, it is much greater than the spread of Spain, Portugal and countries that were more fragile than we in the past. The government, faced with these issues, is completely paralyzed: it is divided on autonomy, minimum wage, tax reform; it is divided on all the main economic policy issues that are on the table of the President of the Council. We'd like to know who decides on these things. We have read that the Chairman of the Count Council has called yet another meeting with the social partners. Dialogue with trade unions and business organisations is good, but put your house in order, otherwise nobody understands us anymore: nobody understands who decides, what are the priorities, what you intend to do; not in ten years, but in two months, when you have to present the budget maneuver for next year. There are no magic wands. We are in a difficult situation and nobody underestimates it, but there is a different course and different choices from the point of view of economic and social policy; we have indicated them to you, we will continue to do so in the coming months, because we care about the future of our country. There is a different course, we can and must take it for the good of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u59	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two of the measures of the economic year, as revised in time and procedures, by the reform of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance No 196 of 2009. They are both very technical documents, which always stimulate very little political and parliamentary debate (in fact, I would say that the level of attention is diminished). However, I would like to stress that the report represents the instrument of verification by the parliamentary bodies of what has been done in the economic and financial management of the Government as a result of the approval of the annual budgetary maneuver. The adjustment, on the other hand, is nothing more than the recording of the effects of the macroeconomic framework contained in the DEF and the latest information resulting from the monitoring of public finance; or rather, mere compensatory changes between the various financial envelopes. It is therefore a question of writing in numbers of what the Government has done, which Parliament is called upon to verify, in one case, and to endorse, in the other. In this regard, as we did this morning in the 5th Commission, it is good to recall here that the present report represents, of course, the work of the whole year 2018, in which there were the elections and the establishment of the new Government, which took place on 1 June last year; therefore the first part of the year still affixes to the economic and financial management of the previous legislature, therefore of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. It must also be acknowledged that over the years it has legislated with extremely heavy procedures: institutions, structures, controls, controllers have been proliferated, as have procedures and authorisations. This has simply complicated the lives of citizens and entrepreneurs, who are struggling to carry on their families and businesses. That is precisely why we have to find - and I am not saying this in order to take applause from my colleagues - that on 4 March the citizens gave a clear signal. Despite the measures put in place by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, who had a huge delay, precisely because of the heaviness of the entire state machine, the citizens decided that it was necessary to change and, with a clear vote, preferred the forces of this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] As I have said before, voters are always right, always, and you cannot, as someone has done, mock them, because then they continue to vote in another way. Mr Tosato mentioned earlier that the policies of this Government have already deployed effects in 2018, but they have done so precisely in terms of the confidence of the citizens in this Government; in fact, the real results will have them thanks to the effects of the budget law that we approved last December. Let us remember well which narrow corridor we had to go down to vote on the budget law: it was indeed a very difficult time. Nevertheless, the government has managed to incorporate in the budget law measures aimed at really changing the lives - strangely, for the first time - of small children: families, small municipalities, small VAT matches, many subjects. This is an epochal change that we rebrand and whose results we can already see. We know how effective it has been, for example with regard to investments, the effect of financing EUR 400 million on the works of municipalities so small that they had never seen money for road and asphalt safety works. This means doing works that are immediately visible to the citizens. At last the citizens see a government close to their everyday life and this gives them confidence, what has been missing for years, but the League and this Government have managed to give it back to the citizens: this is the truth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Above all, important funds have been given to families in the budget law, because, as we have said several times in this House, we must avoid the wretched tendency to lower the population. A country that no longer has children is destined to disappear and then, precisely to the families have been given incentives to the birth, with cheques that reach over 2,000 euros and increased aid for the second child: this is already a great thing. Then there is the prize of 800 euros at birth, with an appropriation of 390 million euros. Not only that: incentives for kindergartens increased by 50% for the three-year period 2019-2021. This means giving prospects to families and letting them understand that we are not just helping them now, but will continue to help them over time. 100 million euros have also been allocated for family policies: a big difference compared to 4.4 million euros previously allocated and from 2019 onwards, therefore a measure that will continue over time, precisely for the support of motherhood, fatherhood and for the protection of children. Then there is the Non-self-sufficiency Fund with an increase of 100 million euros always starting from 2019 and the Social Policy Fund, increased from 280 to 400 million euros for every year: they are all examples of important measures to help families, because in our opinion the recovery of this country always goes from the family. We talk about families, where there are not only parents and children, but where parents are also traders, artisans, VAT matches and employees and therefore the flat tax, which we could do for VAT matches with incomes up to 65,000 euros, was a help, as well as 100 quota, which allowed, always for families, to offer an option for the retirement of people who had already reached the sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of work contributions. They are all possibilities for individuals and families. Citizenship income has been balanced so as to exclude abuse by persons who are not entitled to it. Then there is the EUR 4.5 million for disability card and the Youth Policy Fund increased by EUR 30 million. In short, there are very many speeches, perhaps small things, as the opposition colleagues will say. It has been pointed out that the increase in VAT will still have to be avoided by the activation of the safeguard clauses, which have simply been increased, because it did not start from scratch and it is a problem that was already there. And I remind those who rightly do their part, of opposition, that when he was in the government, until a year and a half ago, he had found himself in a much more favourable economic condition and did not have extraordinary performances: there was an improvement, but not that expected. We hope instead that, with the involvement of all the people who believe us, we can raise the fate of this country even with investments, over which we of the League are absolutely favorable, because they always allow to achieve economic growth. We believe that this climate of optimism can bring about changes. At the hearing we heard Professor Pisauro, who had to admit, even with further studies and with all the concerns he expressed, that last year he had made estimates that were partly denied by reality, so it went better than even the distinguished and very good Professor Pisauro had predicted. That is why we are moving on. Let me make a joke. I smile when I hear comments about the fact that within the majority there is a fight every day, because it doesn't seem to me that in this country there have ever been Children's Governments of the San Vincenzo Society, absolutely. All this is part of the political game of majorities. Our government goes on; the goal is always to give more services to citizens. We promised and we're doing it. I therefore announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u62	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the explanation of vote that I am about to take will cover two measures: the general account of the State Administration for the financial year 2018 and the provisions for the adjustment of the State budget for the financial year 2019. In the first five months of 2018 there was a Government, a majority, while for the next seven there was another majority with the current Government, the one bound by the contract. The data resulting from the examination of the statement are of a frightening ordinary nature. The report is the document that returns true political photography and is not just a technical fact, because it is the only tool that allows you to have the photograph of what you have done and what you have not done; for this reason the statement is not amended, because it is either right, or it is wrong only in numbers, or it is totally false, as it had happened for the accounts of some European countries that wanted to enter the European Union, but we hope it is not the case of our country. Well, in this completely flat situation, the investments are blocked; for the outgoing Government of 2018 this was also done with an express statement: it must be noted that the Document of Economy and Finance of April 2018 explicitly spoke of a lack of programmatic choices as the electoral result had made it necessary to change the leadership of the country. In the next seven months, however, the new Government, that of the program contract, has entered into office, and the system has not changed. We must therefore ask ourselves whether it has not changed by political choice or by inefficiency. You see, colleagues, the political choice probably involves the investment system, because clearly the government statements to stop, to monitor (we use the most appropriate terms used by the Minister) the big investments in the country are political choices that have stopped the investment expenditure. The rest is inefficiency, the one to which you point your finger and that is not only the responsibility of a political part, because our country is a very difficult country, so probably the inefficiency concerns all the political parts, it concerns a bureaucratic system that has crossed and makes it necessary years to activate an investment in our country compared to the time of financing: for the great works twenty years, for the medium ones at least ten. So there is a need, even in this case, to put hand. The responsibility, however, lies with the Government and can no longer be given to past governments. Today, the new governments must take action, that is, those who govern at this time. Other fact: the loans increased by 13 billion euros and the debts increased by 55 billion euros. The Court of Auditors has expressed some doubts about some reports, in equalization, but let's say for good that they can be better clarified, also because this is the first year in which actions are used and no longer chapters. However, it is a system developed and confused, which on a budget of €853 billion is true that allows the majority to boast a better net debt, or in any case a reduction from 2.4% to 2.1%, and a better current balance than in 2017, from €19 billion to €17 billion, and therefore a number of positive elements. But is this pride due to a choice or inability to spend? The element that emerges from the budget was in fact the non-spending on the budget. Was this non-spending a political choice, or is it due to inability and being firm, in a country that needs to grow, needs activation and needs productive spending? However, production expenditure is not there and that is the basic question. However, there are other indicators that tell us that taxes have increased, that there is a worsening of public savings and that passive residues have increased, that they show an inability of the part of the State and therefore of the Government to pay and, on the other hand, also the active residues, therefore to collect. The change is small, but there is. It is a huge entity: we are talking about payments, but we have over EUR 200 billion of active waste and over EUR 140 billion of passive waste. These are monstrous figures: this is the data of the account and therefore is the photograph of this prosperous country, as we have been described by some interventions of the majority. The same applies to the assets account. Think that there have been 2.5 billion euros of disposals in the three years 2016, 2017 and 2018 and the DEF, that regards 2019, previews 1% of the GDP of disposals, that is 18 billion euros (in fact, 17.5 billion euros, to want to be rigorous). Is that the change? Is that the prediction? Let's move briefly to the arrangement, which serves to update the data, being a political document that updates the forecasts and then updates the confused maneuver of December 2018, changed in a few hours at night, even with chart errors for about 16 billion euros: not 16,000 euros, but 16 billion euros. Therefore, the adjustment serves this, as well as, legally, to apply the surplus, the deficit and the update of the residues. This adjustment has been made by the European Union. We saw favorably Decree-Law No 61, whose conversion to law was passed last week, because it went in the direction that - alas - we had been preaching for many months and, if we had been heard before, we would not have paid or charged Italians such high rates due to the very high spread, uncertainty and brawl with the European Union. The adjustment in this case completes the maneuver: my colleagues Iron and Fantetti, but also others, have already indicated the extent of the settlement (7.6 billion), so the fact that you fall within the parameters of the debt and there is no infringement procedure. It is a good thing, however, that we must have a different condition: we are under the supervision of the European Union, so if you want to consider this manoeuvre technical, which is not technical, but political, being under surveillance means that in the Economic and Financial Document you will have to give us and tell us how you intend to do with the VAT safeguard clauses, how you intend to avoid a series of risks and sanctions that could come with another infringement procedure and what you want to do as a political step to change the country. Small technical adjustments are not enough, in fact: this country needs reforms, reforms that you have implemented at the moment only by stopping works and investments. For this reason, our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u65	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the 2018 budget and the 2019 budget balance. These are related measures, since the general statement of the State is the instrument through which the Government makes known to Parliament the results of the financial management relating to 31 December. The report must be submitted by the next month of June, so we are on time. On the other hand, budgetary adjustment is the institution which allows the budget appropriations to be updated in the middle of the year, also on the basis of the amount of the assets and liabilities recorded in the accounts for the financial year at 31 December of the previous year. That is why I said that the two measures are related. The most significant political and economic data is that the Government, when interlocating with the European Commission, has certified an increase in revenue of 3.5 billion euros, of which 2.9 billion euros for higher tax revenues and 0.6 billion euros for more tax revenue; and also increased revenue of 2.7 billion euros, due to higher dividends from the Bank of Italy and Cassa depositi e prestiti; a saving of 1.5 billion euros for 2019 of resources destined for citizenship income and 100; and then still less expenditure of 1 billion and higher expenses of 1,154 billion euros, of which - I would like to emphasize - 500 million euros for the Development and Cohesion Fund, 300 for local public transport and 200 for the Social Policy Fund, university, right to study and everything else. The total amount of these amounts amounts to EUR 7.6 billion, which is used in the adjustment process to correct the budget balance. These figures are so concrete and credible that they have led the European Commission not to open an infringement procedure for breach of the debt rule, a procedure that from the beginning had appeared to many without any foundation and in fact also the President of the Republic had expressed the same doubts and the same amazement. In fact, this had appeared to many, but not to so many anti-Italians in actual permanent service; but so much so. This adjustment of the accounts will bring the deficit-GDP ratio for 2019 to 2.04, that is exactly what the Government had foreseen in the budget law. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrero]] This important result is one of the fruits of the policies of the Government of Change, which wants to hold together social equity, balance of public accounts and respect for European parameters. Of course, we of Movimento 5 Stars have said this thousands of times: some of these rules have no scientific basis, others are abstruse (I think, for example, the calculation of the output gap, as a difference between actual gross domestic product and potential gross domestic product), other rules are illogical and so on. But as long as they are in force we will respect them, because that will give us the strength and credibility to change them: we will not ask for a change of rules that we cannot respect, but we will ask for a change of stupid rules, which choke our own and other European economies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, we are not the only ones who are sceptical about these European rules. I can quote you, in this regard, at least two former Presidents of the Council, one of whom said: It's not stupid that there are parameters as a point of reference, it's stupid that they leave each other unchanged for twenty years. The 3% of the deficit-GDP ratio makes sense at certain times, at other times it would be right that it was zero, in others it was either 4 or 5 percent. An agreement presupposes a policy that manages it and politics is not done with the tables. Romano Prodi used to say that. Another former President of the Council proposed that Italy should adopt a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.9 percent for five years, so as to have at least 30 billion a year to reduce the tax burden and reshape growth strategies. He was - hear, hear - Matthew Renzi; but he proposed these reflections in a book, when he was no longer President of the Council. Here, instead, we do not write expansive measures in books, we write them in budget laws, because we care about the lives of Italians and we are not afraid of our ideas. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrero]] Continuing in the wake of the bitterness of the proposals that today would be called populist, sovereignist and anti-European, I remember that in July 2017, just two years ago, the then economic adviser of former Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, in an article published in "Il Sole 24 Ore" with a fairly eloquent title ("How to overcome the fiscal compact "), proposed to abolish the deficit-GDP parameter, claiming that it was simpler and more logical to consider only the data of the debt, with a strong commitment of the individual states to reduce it within five-year windows. The proposer was the current Member, Mr Marattin, who comes to us to give the lesson when the Joint Commissions meet. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrero]] Of course, consistency and courage are not from all and often these and other politicians have obsessively attacked us, in these months, when we were going to put into practice measures similar to those they themselves (in words, only in words) had proposed in the past years. They attacked us by agitating the spectrum of spreads, financial speculation and rating companies' judgments. These politicians have a far greater opinion of rating companies than those companies have of themselves. How can we forget the parade of the representatives of these rating companies in front of the U.S. investigation committee after the 2008 financial crac? Who asked them how they could give the triple "A" to junk titles like those of Lehman Brothers until the day before the default [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Ferrero and Saccone]] , to this question of how it was possible to make such colossal mistakes, moreover not isolated errors, the so-called experts of these finance companies candidly declared that their opinions were only opinions, that they were private companies and that they were sorry if they were wrong. Here, the lives of millions or billions of people were and are hung up in the mood of these gentlemen, who propalate opinions as if they were at the sports bar, or rather at the finance bar. And who cares if, because of their inability, their gigantic conflicts of interest and their greed, millions have lost their homes, lost their jobs, lost their dignity, lost their families or entered poverty? Who cares, according to them. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ferrero]] Returning to us, the numbers of this settlement continue to agree with this Government. The macroeconomic data tell and describe a better Italy than that of 1 June 2018, when we assumed the burden of the Government. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u66	Quiet and cold blood, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u67	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Look at the data and you'll convince yourself. There is more work (employment has been at its peak since 1977). The work is of better quality, thanks to the incredible increase in the number of permanent contracts, obtained thanks to our decree of dignity. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u68	Senator Mirabelli, please! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, but I am used to it. In fact, he does résumé! Unemployment has fallen below the psychological limit of 10%. In fact, we are at 9.9 percent, the lowest figure since 2012. Today's spread is at 196 basis points (moreover, I remember it, without the help of quantitative easing) and the confidence of the markets in Italy is so high that they easily place public debt securities with rates constantly falling and with increasing duration, even fifty years!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u69	[[Comments of Senators Pharaoh and Belladonna]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, I see her with my hand in front of her mouth, because Senator Laus is snitching! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). The investments of the municipalities, for the first time since 2008, increased by 17% in the first half of 2019, thanks to the unblocking of the management surpluses and to the 400 million allocated in maneuver for the safety of the territory, to which will be added another 500 million of the decree increase. It's only been a little over a year and all this has happened. But we want to do even more for Italians. Mr Laus (PD). No, that's enough! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). We want to approve the minimum wage, 9 euros gross per hour because no one needs to be exploited as a slave with wages of 2 or 3 euros per hour. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group]] We want to reduce the tax wedge and the taxation of companies, to free up energy and return the desire to invest, to do business, to create wealth and work. We want to simplify a number of procedures that now oppress those who want to work honestly and seriously. We want to do all this and more. We want to make Italy a fairer, fairer, more supportive, more welcoming country. Mr Laus (PD). That's enough! Stop! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). We are not afraid of the strong powers that you like so much, that they would like to direct, as they did with you, our economic and social policies. [[Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups]] We are not interested in receiving praise or, worse, directives from business banks. All our energies will be directed to assure the Italians a better life and a better future. For all these reasons, in view of the above-mentioned announcement, with the same explanation, the favorable vote of the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars, both on the financial statements of the State 2018 and on the settlement of 2019. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u70	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 1387 and 1388. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1387, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1388, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u73	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, my speech at the end of the sitting concerns, on the one hand, a reminder of a number of questions which have already been asked, which have never been answered, to the Minister of Defence, and in particular cases similar to those which have been created in the famous Val d'Enza, in relation to children who, just today, according to some newspapers, appeared to have been returned to their families. Children who were returned when it was verified that the procedure followed until then had not been adequate. Well, I wonder why the Minister should not take into account the seriousness, rigour and attention with which the cases are reported. I'm talking about the cases I reported, but I know for a fact that there are others that have never been answered. I do not know if we are waiting for yet another scandal of Val d'Enza also in other places, but I guarantee you, Mr President, that here, in the Roman territory, alongside some situations of family houses and places of excellence, there are some highly problematic situations, with children who have not been treated in compliance with the norms; children who have been questioned and the records disappeared; children for whom it is possible to imagine that there have been situations with conflict of interest; children who have been taken away from families for the denunciation made by mothers based on the hypothesis of erotic games by father figures and who, in the end, have been assigned to fathers. A confused and messy situation that has never had justice, not even the simplicity of the answer. In the face of the drama that is being created in Emilia-Romagna, it seems to me that the Minister and his staff should consider cases mentioned here in Parliament and devote to them the attention they deserve not only for the respect of the Member of Parliament (which could also be considered secondary), but - above all - of children and their lives. These dramas happen and these macroscopic errors are made. Then, please, go check out the situations we've reported to you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u76	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking today in this House to inform the Senate of what happened last Monday in Chiomonte. An army of thugs - because 200 people, from my point of view, can be called an army - attacked the high-speed construction site. In the previous days they have stacked flammable material and, by setting it on fire, have caused flames up to four meters high. They tried to break through the metal gate using as rams a large trunk of tree, fired rockets signal boating and launched stones, firecrackers and paper bombs against the Forces of Order that for years have been guarding the construction site. Digos has recognized about fifty people related to the Askatasuna social centre in Turin and the No TAV movement. All this, of course, happens in conjunction with what is the event of the valley, that is the Festival Alta Happiness, that every year attracts in Val di Susa - more precisely in Venaus - hundreds of anarchists from all over Europe with the excuse of a music festival, moreover not authorized by anyone, that in reality has its sublimation in the series of attacks on the Italian State, in the figures of the Forces of order that guard the yard. I don't know if what happened yesterday in Rovezzano is connected directly or not to the Piedmontese No TAV movement. What is certain is that the alleged impunity situation and the statements of certain political representatives of the PD, including a former Minister, who justify violating the law in the name of who knows what ideals, make it possible for certain vandalists to act at 360 degrees. This meant that yesterday, for the whole morning, Italy was divided into two. This is intolerable. The President-in-Office of the Council has ensured that everything will be done to take the guilty and severely punish them for the inconveniences caused. That's good. I hope these criminals have a clear message that they have no saints in heaven or guardian angels in this government. Those who break pay and the pieces are his and must pay dear and salty. I take this opportunity to renew the esteem, the closeness and the support always to the work of the Forces of the Order, men and women in uniform that, with an incredible professionalism, protect the safety of the places and the tranquility of the people for good, but all too often we forget to say thanks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u79	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I want to take advantage of this House to talk about a very important instrument that the regions have in their hands: the landscape plan. We know that this is a very important instrument that serves to protect and enhance, so much so that it is not only descriptive, but also prescriptive and proactive, it is superordained to other plans and its effectiveness is immediate, since adoption. I come to the case: the Sicilian Region has finally adopted - better late than ever - at the end of 2016 the landscape plan also for the field 9, that is the Province of Messina. This tool is clearly also important for the Mela Valley area, which is a site of national interest (SIN), but not only. If so, what happened? Recent decisions of the TAR of Catania have found a formal defect in the procedure for adopting the plan, leading to its annulment. This is very serious. However, the administrative court has clearly understood the great damage in the case of annulment and, therefore, has provided a useful time limit to remedy this defect. The useful deadline is October 27, 2019. There are still three months and I deliberately made this speech now, to invite and urge the President of the Sicilian Region, who has been elected to the motto "it will become beautiful," to heal this vice so as not to deprive our Province of such an important instrument of protection and protection. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We hope that from here to October 27 surely the Sicilian Region will heal such vice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u82	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention, together with my colleague, Mr Mangialavori, to a very serious incident at the hospital in Cetraro in Cosenza. Santina Adam died after giving birth to her second child. The death by hemorrhaging of a young woman, our fellow citizen, after the birth, reopens the debate on the emergency health in Calabria. On the matter is investigating the prosecutor of the Republic to ascertain the exact dynamics of the facts and the possible responsibility of the medical and paramedical staff, who operated, treated and assisted Santina. To you, blameless victim, my heartfelt and heartbroken thoughts go to you, and to the whole family you are heartfelt with your condolences. I asked Minister Grillo on the 18th, in the press, to send the inspectors to the hospital to better understand the dynamics and I thank him for starting the inspection two days later. The news coming from the press seems to bring out disturbing circumstances: it seems that in the operating room, while the young mother was breathing, there was no surgeon who could operate and died of hemorrhage after three hours of childbirth, without bags of blood. For a few weeks at the hospital in Cetraro you can no longer operate under emergency and emergency conditions, despite the fact that it is a hospital that hosts a birth point with about 600 parts per year: but there is no possibility to operate in emergency and emergency! The hospital in Cetraro cannot count on the transfusion center, which is more than 30 kilometers away. The blood bags arrived three hours after the birth. Maybe the young mother could have saved herself if she had the blood and maybe a surgeon who could stab the bleeding. I would like to ask the Minister to come to the House to report the outcome of the inspection. It is important that you come to report, because on 3 May the Calabria Decree was approved, which provides for a series of measures, but it seems that today we have not had any kind of signal on the health organization that we want to do in Calabria, lack the staff, lack the doctors. President, we can't go to the hospital for help and we can't find doctors there! I will be monotonous, we will be monotonous, maybe we will get tired and tired of repeating the same things, but in Calabria we die for reasons, for which it is unthinkable and unnatural. This happens with us. This is serious and, therefore, I would like Parliament's utmost attention to this. We will bring any such situation to the House in Calabria because Parliament must seriously address this emergency which concerns our fellow citizens, our Italian brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u85	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 28 June last, the President of the European Commission, together with the leaders of the Mercosur countries - Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay - announced that he had reached a political agreement on free trade. On 1 July 2019 the Commission announced the results of the last and final round of negotiations, which indicated the liberalisation of imports of the following products: 99,000 tonnes of beef, 180,000 tonnes of poultry, 25,000 tonnes of pigmeat, the elimination of the quota duty on 180,000 tonnes of sugar, 450,000 tonnes of ethanol, 60,000 tonnes of rice, 45,000 tonnes of honey and 30,000 tonnes of duty-free cheese. The agreement actually creates a market of more than 780 million consumers, but trade favours the European sectors of industry in particular the automotive, chemical and pharmaceutical industries, and in return would allow access to South American agricultural products, in particular meat and sugar. However, I would like to point out that the agreements must not only protect European and Italian agricultural products, but must also safeguard the health of consumers. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the scandal of "fraca meat": beef and poultry from one of those countries of South America have been classified, for cases of contamination, among the top 10 foods most dangerous for the number of food alarms taken in Italy in 2018. Moreover, again in the same country, since the beginning of the year another 211 pesticides have been approved, of which many banned in Europe and many banned in Italy. The document on the trade agreement does not guarantee and does not give sufficient protection for our country; it is an agreement from which we will not derive any benefit. The agricultural sector must not be a trade commodity. We must follow three fundamental rules if we are to make serious international agreements: the first is the protection of equal conditions; the second is the effectiveness of controls and the third is the reciprocity of rules. We are absolutely opposed to this type of agreement and we say it from our benches with energy and vigour: first Italian products always! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u88	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, fellow senators, more than a hundred years after the fighting, on the Asiago plateau in the province of Vicenza, the remains of an Italian soldier who fell during the First World War have been found in recent days. Nearby were also recovered its helmet, almost intact, and a part of the boot supplied to the royal army. The discovery and recovery of the remains have been made possible thanks to the valuable contribution of the Association researchers and friends of history. The ceremony of surrender of the solemn honors will have particular significance, because this year the hundred years of the constitution of the general commissioner for the honours of the fallen, prove that, despite the past years, the mission aimed at the maintenance of the cult of memory is very timely and that the activity of research and recovery of their children continues incessantly in Italy and abroad. In the year of this anniversary, the Municipality of Fogliano Redipuglia, in the province of Gorizia, presented the project "Adopt a fallen", sharing its aspects with the Regional Junta Friuli-Venezia Giulia and with the provincial school office, setting itself the goal of creating a generational connection between those who donated their lives for the defense of their borders and the young people of schools, in order to consolidate respect and closeness to the cult of memory. The important event will seek the involvement of educational institutions and the world of youth associationism, to create the conditions for the carrying out of some educational and informative activities such as - for example - historical lessons on the First World War and the Karst, or illustrative conferences on specific topics, such as technological innovations for the recognition of bodies of the fallen through DNA analysis. In this sense, in full collaboration, the Commissariat General will make available the area of the military shrine, the monumental area and the structure called "House of the Third Army" for the development of the program, in line with the canons of sacredness and decor expressed by the place. It is hoped that this initiative can also be replicated for other places of memory, to evoke the past and promote respect for values in young people and to remember that every life spent makes sense only if sacrifice has not been made useless. Redipuglia: 100,000 souls buried for 100,000 implicit minutes of silence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u89	I inform you that tomorrow, Wednesday 24 July, the session will be suspended from 10.45 a.m. to allow senators to participate in the Ventaglio ceremony, which will be held at Palazzo Giustiniani at 11.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-23-LEG18-Senato-sed-136.ana.u91	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 24 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.
