ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:43 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the Conference of Leaders has been temporarily suspended and will resume at 10.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u4	We have half an hour to deal with a subject which I consider to be very important and which the Conference of Leaders has authorised to deal with immediately, at the opening of the session, namely the political crisis in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u7	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all, I would like to begin this brief speech by expressing an affectionate and sincere thought, I hope representative of the whole of Parliament, to the Italians living in Venezuela. [[Applause]] and which at the moment have suffered greatly from the consequences of a situation which has been going on for several years. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have all witnessed with apprehension what is happening in Venezuela. I'd like to say something in anticipation. On Venezuela, Italian politics in the past years divided heavily: of Venezuela we gave different judgments; historically of chavismo were given different judgments. But today is not the time to reopen the page of historical-political discussions. Today is the time to look at reality in the face and to see how one of the countries that in the seventies was among the richest in the world, at the top of all the world statistics, today has reduced to being a country in which one tenth of the population has escaped, 90 percent lives under the levels of dignity, the majority of children no longer go to school because in the search, between the bins of the garbage, of something to eat for themselves and for the family, being the food rationed; the oil production has dropped from 3 million barrels to 900,000 and, probably, in the next few months will stop, for the simple reason that the equipment has not been adequate in all these years, and therefore also the only resource of which the country has is drying up. In the face of this situation, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that in recent years international authorities have intervened, from the UN to the Organization of American States, from Mercosur to what is Venezuela's main spiritual resource, the Catholic Church with the Episcopal Conference. Not only that. The Holy Father, Pope Francis, and the Vatican have also spoken several times to try to propose themselves - because they had the consent of all, of the regime and of the opposition - as an element of political dialogue. I remind my colleagues - many of you had just arrived - that a year and a half ago the Senate approved by a very large majority a motion and with a favourable opinion of the Government. I would just like to point out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs then came to this House to remind us that our fellow countrymen wanted medicines; some of our embassy officials had died of enough trivial diseases and there were no medicines. But in response to the request of the Italian authorities to send the medicines to our community, the Venezuelan Foreign Minister had told our Foreign Minister that things were going well in Venezuela, that medicines were not needed, that if we needed medicines for our fellow countrymen, they would be provided and that we would only have to provide a list. Our diplomacy, and even before that, President Gentiloni Silveri, our Foreign Minister and then Minister Alfano humiliated themselves - and they did well, they could not do otherwise - even to provide the list of medicines and people in need. Well, all this, of course, has produced nothing, because it was an excuse not to accept medicines from abroad. I'll tell you more. There was the Church's proposal to stand up as a mediator, but there was a demand for the release of political prisoners and the restoration of electoral stages, the elections freely convened. Well, all this has produced a wall of denial, to the point that the Holy Father and the Catholic Church have withdrawn from any hypothesis of work, because there was no possibility of continuing. In recent days the situation has degenerated: a constituent Assembly has been set up without legal bases in order to put a "zeppa." To what, colleagues? We are in Parliament, we are the Senate of the Italian Republic, one of the most democratic countries in the world, although with all its limitations, with our debates between majority and opposition, which, in the light of what is happening in Venezuela, are extraordinary examples of democratic gymnasium: well, the only democratically legitimized Venezuelan institution is the Parliament of that country. What, then, has been done in the Venezuelan Parliament? Members have been deprived of their salary and have even been armored to access Parliament, so light, electricity and everything that was necessary for its operation have been removed. Parliament has been paralyzed and, despite this, our colleagues have continued in their action, in international isolation, until yesterday, a historic day for Venezuela, but on which all of us - if we still believe in the value of the word democracy and its meaning - cannot pretend that we have not seen what is happening. We cannot hide once again behind the sentences in the abstruse diplomacy: here we must take a position, we cannot say either with one another or with another; it is too simple, colleagues. Leaving aside the United States, because someone could put it on the ideology, let us look at the Organization of American States, the Brazil of Bolsonaro, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, historically not certainly aligned with the Conservative front: on yesterday, all these countries, including Canada, recognized the institutional and political legitimacy not of those who have proclaimed themselves President of the State, but of those who simply offered their mandate as President in time, as Guaidó did, in an attempt to promote a democratic process and get out of this nightmare, whose first and only actor is that Maduro who continues to pretend to represent Venezuela as a country in full normality. Of course it is something that contrasts with everything, common sense first. Colleagues, I believe that Italy must strike a blow: it must do so in the name and on behalf of the compatriots I saw two years ago in Caracas, who suffer heavily. Many of them have of course escaped, but many have their activities and their children there (and as many, actually, have already sent them to study abroad, even in Italy). We cannot fail to strike a blow and in these hours - as an Italian, as a member of the Senate, a participant in the democratic life of this institution - I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to express himself, avoiding taking time, and to place Italy in the position of the community of free countries that are expressing themselves in these hours, starting with those of the European Union. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]] I know there may be divisions, but I address my colleagues in the government, who have all my respect, because they are not usurpers, because they are there for the vote expressed by the Italians: I can oppose you, but I must respect you. I ask you, primary interpreters of the popular will, as a majority, to stand by the community of free men and women of this world, of Guaidó and of the President of the Venezuelan Parliament in the present dramatic passage for that country. Long live Italy, but live Venezuela! [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u10	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, this is not an ordinary moment in the relationship between Italy and Venezuela, and it is not one of the many debates that have taken place in the past months and years. Before, President Casini rightly said that in the past, even recently, our behaviour has been different with regard to Venezuela and its Government. I myself, in my government mandate, although I have no sympathy for the political governments of Chavez and then Maduro, have been on an official mission to Venezuela, to protect the representation of the Italian community and to protect Italian companies, and I met the then President Chavez, like many of us. A fair and legitimate relationship between the institutions of freely recognized States and their freely elected Governments. But here's another story. Maduro was elected with a plebiscite not recognized by the international community a year ago. He is a usurper, while President Guaidó is an expression of the only Parliament elected freely and constitutionally by Venezuelan citizens; On the basis of an article in the Venezuelan Constitution ( 233), he took over the Presidency, deposing the usurper. The legitimate government, according to the same Venezuelan Constitution and according to the entire international community, is what Guaidó expressed yesterday, as an expression of the only elected Parliament. Last year, to add some elements to this Assembly, twenty million Venezuelans crossed the border with Colombia and other neighbouring countries, in order to feed, cure, buy medicines and then return to their country. I repeat, twenty million people crossed the border in order to meet their survival needs, including health. Infant mortality has increased by 30 percent. A million Venezuelans are already in refugee camps abroad. The collapse of the Venezuelan economy, once flourishing, is evident to all. Poverty now affects three quarters of the population: three quarters of the population can't feed enough and one out of three people can't eat every day. The situation is dramatic. In the face of this dramatic situation, yesterday's event is a turning point. But we must be timely (I say this to Parliament and the Government): if Italy intervenes recognizing the legitimate Government of Guaidó by making it clear to the usurper and, above all to the Venezuelan army, that a possible bloody repression (as could happen in the next few hours, if we remain silent) of the legitimate revolt of the Venezuelan people would be sanctioned with the instruments of the international community with the risk of being brought before the international tribunal for crimes against humanity, repression will not be there. The new Government has already guaranteed (President Guaidó was intelligent in this regard) the amnesty for any military man in uniform, whatever crime he has committed in the past, provided he joins the legitimate Government, that is, that of the elective National Assembly. We are at a turning point and it is appropriate for the international community to act as almost all the States of South America did yesterday. It is emblematic and significant that, whatever has been and whatever the Government of the States of South America, they have all sided with the legitimate Government of Guaidó and against any repression. If Europe does so too (as we hope) - and Europe is Latin America, so it is more important what Europe chooses than what Canada chooses for Latin America - if the European Union, if the European Commissioner Mogherini, if the European Parliament and the Italian Parliament join the new legitimate government recognizing it immediately, then the repression will be stopped. Otherwise the dead of Caracas will weigh on the conscience of each of us. We can stop the repression by making it clear to that regime that it is over, that the international community will never forgive those who should take sides for internal repression. This is important; at this moment the diplomacy and caution of those who say they are still waiting to some extent favour repression. At this moment, silence is complicity in what will happen. We need to know this and, above all, the 2 million Italians who live and suffer in Venezuela know this. We can't leave them alone. We ask Parliament, the Senate at this time and, through the presidency of the Senate, the Italian Government to declare immediately the recognition of the Government of Guaidó. Without it and without it, all the political forces in this Parliament must stand up and stand up. He who is silent promotes repression and carries with him, in his conscience, even what will happen. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u13	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, the latest news coming from Venezuela is certainly not encouraging, to use euphemism; they speak of 14 deaths and 218 arrests. However, this is only the first budget, which has unfortunately been announced over the past few weeks. It was clear that with Maduro's oath the provocations compared to that which is not the opposition, but which won the elections and is legitimated from the parliamentary point of view, there were demonstrations that asked to respect the parliamentary outcome and denounce what had happened with the elections in Maduro. The reaction of the European countries and the European Union has been mild. Minister Moavero merely wrote a letter with his Spanish and French colleagues asking for the formation of a contact group. We believe that this is not enough and that a more assertive reaction is needed. It is clear that the budget I was talking about earlier can be increased. Dictators are used to rehearse to understand what spaces they have in their reaction, which can be bloody. It is clear that it is time to say which side you are on. I appreciated the words of a political opponent, who is President of the European Parliament today, who courageously denounced with courage in recent days what was happening in Venezuela. I think that the Italian Parliament and Senate should do the same without shyness; it is time to say which side you are on. The countries of the Organization of American States (OSA) have done so with extreme speed, even more than in the past. It is known that in those countries it is very important to understand what the police are doing and what the army is doing. They are also sensitive to understanding how public opinion in the Western and European world also moves. It is clear that the Italian Government must make a clear choice, but it will probably not do so alone because in the majority there is a party that in the recent past, only last August, showed a fatal attraction towards the Venezuelan model. The founder of the Movimento 5 Stars spoke in fact, during a tragic moment for our country, last August, of proletarian expropriations, referring to the Venezuelan model. I therefore understand the embarrassment of the 5 Star Movimento, but today is the time to decide whether you are on the side of freedom or on the side of repression. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And being on the side of freedom means giving our strong support to the President of the Guaidó National Assembly. From this point of view, I think that the Senate can also make its voice heard and ask the Government to intervene promptly to put in place all the initiatives to ensure the security of our Italian community present in Venezuela but, at the same time, to give a political signal here, in the Assembly, for the Government to give it to the European Union. The European Union cannot remain neutral and must also say that it is on the side of the principles and values that are enshrined in the Constitution and the European Treaties. That is why we are calling for this House too to be able to express itself as soon as possible in order to say that we are on the side of freedom. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u16	CRAXI (FI-BP). Mr President, Venezuela has been going through a serious economic, humanitarian and political crisis for years, and since yesterday it is also in danger of facing a civil conflict, with devastating effects that would be paid by the people. Nicolas Maduro's regime has long been in war against his people, erasing all democratic rights. Venezuelans suffer from hunger for hyper-inflation and, as if that were not enough, every day, for months, people have been dying for lack of medical care: not only because the national health system has been dismantled, but also because of the lack of equipment and medicines. 24 percent of children are at risk of death from acute malnutrition. Violence is alarming. Not only is organized crime under control, but government repression is increasingly violent: more than seven thousand cases of torture are reported, more than seven thousand trials for dissidentity. We would also like to recall that Venezuela welcomes the third Italian community in order of importance throughout South America and, if we calculate the descendants, we speak of more than two million people. The Italian Government must make its voice heard and immediately help the countrymen in danger. I would also ask that the Senate immediately be the Committee on the Issues of Italians Abroad, which has already been set up by the House of Deputies. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Although one of the political components of the Government made months ago a surprising endorsement to the dictator Maduro, Forza Italia will always be on the side of those who suffer for the deprivation of freedoms. Despite this, a serious country is not divided on foreign policy. We make, majority and opposition, a joint appeal to dialogue to avoid civil war and we call for democratic rights and human rights to be restored immediately in that country. Knowing, the Venezuelan people that Italy will always be at his side. That live Venezuela! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u19	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we want to express all our closeness and our thoughts to the Venezuelan people, the children, and our community in Venezuela. Today is not the day to talk about the statement made by a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars or the request to set up the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad: today is the day to think about what we can do for the Venezuelan people, how we can help them, and to let diplomacy work in the hope of achieving a solution in a democratic way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] FAZZOLARI (FdI). Shame! They're not ashamed! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you very much for your summary.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u22	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank our group leaders for having included this issue in this pause (and what a pause, we have seen, is not). Of course also the Movimento 5 Stars expresses solidarity and closeness to the people of Venezuela all and, in particular, to our fellow citizens who are either resident abroad or who are there at this time for the most disparate reasons, typically following an emigration for work purposes. I think it is important to stress a few words and give some initial answers to this morning's debate. It is clear that this is an important moment for Italy and the Government of change has given an important signal, especially in foreign policy. I think I speak on behalf of the whole majority and we can reiterate the view that the Government of Change has also given a sign of change in foreign policy and, above all, with positions of authority. [[Senator Urso's comments.]] I would like to take this opportunity - it was not prepared at all - to mention to the House... [[Comments of Senator Urso]] If he has the courtesy to listen, perhaps I can communicate something important: that is that the Farnesina, not later than three days ago (so without any position or, as they say, without putting her hands on), has entered into an agreement with the Venezuelan Government for the provision of medicines to Italian citizens, those that you mentioned this morning. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Aimi's comments.]] Mr Urso (FdI). They're dying in the square! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Mr Urso, the speech is quite clear and comments are made on their own. He doesn't need his comment. LUCIDES (M5S). Farnesina has signed an agreement with the Venezuelan Government for the supply of medicines for Italian populations. There is a telephone number that resident Italians registered with the register of Italian residents abroad (AIRE) can use. They can go to our consulates - in particular, the consulate responsible is that of Maracaibo - to take the medicines. That's what you asked, and that's what the Italian government did. What more do you want? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senators Aimi and Taricco]] Mr Urso (FdI). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lucidi, don't talk to your colleagues. What they want the most they have said, and so you intervene freely. [[Applause from the PD Group]] LUCIDES (M5S). If this is not a sign of closeness to those populations what should we say? I don't understand. MALPEZZI (PD). That you're in trouble. LUCIDES (M5S). Unfortunately, we are faced with yet another finding of the situation in South America, which has been forgotten for too many years: we remember only when such incidents occur. It will certainly be the time to reopen a major parliamentary debate on how to intervene even in a very immediate way. SACCONE (FI-BP). Shut up, it's better. You look better. Forget it! LUCIDES (M5S). The Foreign Affairs Committee is doing its job, the examination of an assigned business has begun these days to understand the condition of our Italian citizens abroad and therefore this will also be the time to deepen this issue in a much more concrete and - I repeat - urgent way. I honestly did not understand the reasons for this disappointment because, in my opinion, we are working in an absolutely unanimous and shared way. So, all these polemics I honestly don't understand. Instead, we should ask and understand what they have done, for example, in Europe with regard to this issue. MALAN (FI-BP). Shame! LUCIDES (M5S). We have a Commissioner from the European Union - fortunately in due course - appointed by the previous government. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] We would like to understand what our High Representative for Foreign Affairs has done on this subject in the European Union. Before you do so much controversy, then, begin an examination of your conscience. [[Comments of Senator Urso]] Come here and tell us what you did before challenging the Government of change that, as I told you, even if you did not want to listen, is beginning to give signals and bring concrete elements of change also for those people and for those Italian citizens who have been asking for help for too long. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Mr Urso (FdI). Shame on you!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u23	I have no other members to speak (I have not given the floor to Senators of the same Group). Senator Urso had asked me again for the floor, but I replied that I would send the request to Minister Moavero Milanesi to come and report to the House. As soon as possible, I will forward the request to the President of the Senate. Mr Urso (FdI). I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Urso, I didn't give you the floor. The debate cannot be reopened. I just want to say that the passion that the Senate expressed on this occasion I believe is still considered by everyone extremely positive. I also think that we cannot end this brief debate except with an expression of great closeness, first of all to the Italians in Venezuela but also to all the Venezuelans who are currently suffering from the events that you have all illustrated. [[Applause]] I am suspending the sitting until 10:45 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:17 a.m. and resumed at 11:05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u24	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar in relation to the process of the Decree-Law simplifications. The discussion of the measure in the Assembly will begin at the sitting on Monday 28 January from 10 a.m. to continue, if necessary, on Tuesday 29. The sessions do not include closing hours. The Budget Commission shall be authorized to meet during discussions which do not include votes. The schedule of the week from 5 to 7 February can be supplemented by an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the most recent events of international policy, as requested in the debate that took place at the opening of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u25	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Monday 28 January h. 10 - Drawing of Law No. 989 - Decree-Law No. 135, Simplifications (expands on 12 February 2019) Tuesday 29 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, February 5 h. 9,30-20 - Drawing of constitutional law n. 214 and related - Reduction of parliamentary number (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Drawing of law n. 881 - Repeal of electoral laws (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Video surveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law n. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection Union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7, 15:00) Wednesday 6" h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7" h. 9,30]] The schedule of the week from 5 to 7 February may be supplemented by an information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the latest international political events. Amendments to bill No 214 and related (Reduction of parliamentary number) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 31 January 2019. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 881 (Applicability of electoral laws) and No 881 (Applicability of electoral laws). 897 and related (Videosurveillance) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 989 (Decree-Law No 135, Simplifications) (11 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 8 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 30' FI-BP 1 h. 40' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. PD 1 h. 34' FdI 52' Mixed 48' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 40' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Parisian Institute Vincenzo Pallotti in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u29	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, of course, we would have preferred a more normal procedure than the simplification decree-law. At this point the work is postponed until next week; we note that this has been determined only by issues within the majority and certainly not by a non-cooperative attitude on the part of the opposition, which instead worked with the utmost cooperation. In fact, they also worked with the majority in the Commission. However, because of problems outside the parliamentary dynamics, which are dependent solely on the majority, the work has gone as we have seen. However, I would like to make a proposal to amend the timetable. Some speeches were made earlier on on the issue of Venezuela, where the situation is dramatic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not that, when we have done this, we have to say that everything is fine. The situation is dramatic and many Italians live in very difficult situations, in the sense that they do not have to face only the problem of going to take drugs at the consulate. We cannot think of postponing weeks when the generals - apparently - are moving in these hours. In two weeks' time, we risk commemorating the opposition leader who has been recognized by important countries as the legitimate Head of State in Venezuela. I repeat that we risk commemorating this person in two weeks' time instead of trying to provide support. I therefore propose that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should come to the House this afternoon for information. Time can very well be found and the Group's speeches can also be temporarily limited, so there is nothing to prevent the Commission from continuing to work, if it is deemed to be, or from participating with its members in the work of the Assembly, without distorting the time taken to approve the Decree-Law on simplifications. But if there is no such possibility today and the presence of the Minister is postponed in the Chamber, we ask that he come as soon as possible and not in two weeks' time, since next week, however, we meet for the examination of the decree-law on simplifications, so as to devote time to the very important issue of Venezuela. You can do just fine. In any case, if the issue of Venezuela is not brought to the attention of the House this week with the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we ask that communications be given instead of mere information, so that it is possible for the various groups to submit resolutions or motions in order to be able to express themselves fully. In fact, I don't think we can limit ourselves to a role of spectators in an affair that really involves many Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u30	I thank Senator Malan for taking up my proposal, made at the Conference of the Leaders, to evaluate today the intervention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the meantime, a proposal has been made to amend this week's timetable to ask for the Minister to be present today. As there are further requests for intervention, I would ask you not to reopen the debate, but to remain exclusively within the context of changing the timetable and to be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u33	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, as you said before in closing the debate, we have already asked - and we repeat this here - that this afternoon, and not Monday when it may be too late, Foreign Minister Moavero Milanesi, or at least a representative of the Government - for example the President of the Council, but certainly Moavero Milanesi would be the right person - come to this House to inform Parliament and say whether the Italian Government intends to respond to the appeal made by the countries - can we call them free? - from Latin America. Almost all Latin American countries have already spoken. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's talk about the schedule of work. Mr Urso (FdI). We would like this debate to take place today. It cannot be postponed at all. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So you are in agreement with the request to amend the timetable for the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u35	You have the floor and I ask you too, if you can, to be brief.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u36	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I will be very brief. In the end, we welcomed the decisions of the Conference of Leaders, and we waged a battle for the Commissions to have time to deepen all the texts. This request has finally been accepted and, therefore, we are going in this direction. However, there is an explicit request to comment on proposals for amendments and our Group intends to do so. Yesterday we too asked for the presence in the Chamber of Minister Moavero Milanesi, because there are great disturbances, difficulties and contrasts with a new foreign policy of our country. It is therefore correct for Minister Moavero Milanesi to report on the relations between the Italian Government and France - as we have asked today - such an important affair and on the recent events in Venezuela. Minister Moavero Milanesi, like the whole Government, must understand that Parliament is an essential part of the institutional structure of our country and cannot decline every time... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think they both know. Mr Marcucci (PD). Maybe, though, reminding him by the Senate presidency could be of use to him. I do not know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to come to this House today, but that there is a very strong need on Parliament's part to listen to him on such important matters is obvious. We therefore ask the presidency of the Senate to take charge of it. In the meantime, we will vote in favour of the request for a change to the timetable put forward by the Forza Italia Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u39	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to speak quickly in turn: I agree with the proposal by Senator Malan, which Mr Urso and Mr Marcucci have reiterated. Given, however, that I know how such situations work and sometimes putting only one chip on the table is self-injury, I would like to say one thing to the Presidency in a constructive way. If this afternoon, for some reason, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not available and because time in this case is not an independent variable, I ask that the Minister come to the Senate at least tomorrow morning, because we cannot take up biblical times. The Autonomous Group will therefore support the proposal made by Senator Malan, which perhaps is better reworded in the sense of asking for the Minister, as an alternative to this afternoon, to come tomorrow morning. MALAN (FI-BP). That's okay with me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u40	We take note of that. If there is no further intervention in this regard, in order to try to proceed in order, Senator Malan's request also includes the possibility, if it is not possible for the Minister to come and report to the Chamber today, to postpone the government's communications until next week. In the meantime, I would like to ask my colleagues whether there are any other requests for intervention on the timetable that I am leaving on this subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u43	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the timetable because we have already voted in favour of Mr Moavero Milanesi's request for his presence in the Chamber. I want to intervene on the calendar to stigmatize a method that is now consolidating and reaffirm here what I said at the Conference of the Group Leaders using the musical adage was already planned. And it was also planned at the Conference of Leaders last Tuesday, when we asked the government to know with certainty whether or not the measure would arrive in this House. The result has been a continuous postponement and let me say that the current week here in this House has produced no fruit, because it has been a useless waste of time. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] We have wasted time in the Commission and there has been a broad cooperation on the part of the opposition - as it should be - because the decree-law is important. In the face of this, however, there has been a political problem that is no longer mentioned. Let us not hide behind a finger: the work of the Commission went on between stop and go, while a minister threatened to resign and in the press at some point even feared the idea that the decree-law could not be dealt with and there was almost talk of a government crisis. We forgot everything, but this happened between yesterday afternoon and tonight. There has been a political problem within this majority and it is no coincidence that the majority in the Commission will continue to table amendments to itself. In general, it is the oppositions that present the amendments and not the majority, which have tabled a mountain. There was a political problem on the drills and it was solved: very well. This, however, has not, once again, corrected the way this House works. In addition, we have also tried to start a sort of alternation between the work of this House and those of the Commissions. However, if we do not use the week devoted to the work of this House, we are really beginning to shave the ridicule and that certainly shows a lack of respect. We voted against this timetable in order to draw attention to a method that we reject. As our Ciriani leader said yesterday, patience is over. We want to work and we want to do it well. We put forward the counter-proposal to continue working until tomorrow and then start again on Tuesday. It was intended to give another timetable: we take note of it, but we will vote against it for the reasons I have just stated and because it is really unacceptable to continue with this lack of respect for the House and the institution it represents. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u44	In addition to the previous communication, I would like to say that the sub-amendments to the amendments tabled by the Commissions will have to be submitted within two working hours from the time the texts are forwarded to the Groups. This means that, if the text is sent at 11 p.m., the deadline of course expires the following day. That's clear to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u47	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to endorse what Senator Rauti has said. The Group for the Autonomies, as Mrs Rauti said, considers these continuous referrals to be unacceptable. I urge the Government of Change to take a little action and not to hold the House hostage for a couple of days without anything happening. This is a waste of time for all of us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u48	I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to request the presence of Mr Moavero Milanesi or other representative of the Government, made by Senator Malan and other senators, by now - or if it is not possible today, as soon as possible. (The vote was followed). It's not approved. FARAONE (PD). Shame! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP and PD Group, and Senator Casini]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to proceed to the discussion of draft law No 989 tomorrow, Friday, with the resumption of work next Tuesday, tabled by Senator Rauti. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u51	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to express my indignation at the fact that the House voted to avoid discussing Maduro's misdeeds. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] You must be ashamed of a Parliament that is on Maduro's side. Shame on you! [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] We have nothing to do with you and Maduro! Long live the people of Venezuela! [[Applause from FI-BP FI-BP, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u52	Thank you. He has associated himself with Senator Pharaoh's words.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u55	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I only speak to say that what you are saying is not true. We just said that we can't either today or tomorrow and not even next week for obvious reasons. At the first useful date, however, we also call for Minister Moavero Milanesi to report back to the House. [[Comments from PD, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] and that we discuss France and Maduro.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u56	Senator Romeo, this is clear and is already written in the calendar of works. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then you can't make statements... president. You are opposed to the proposed amendment. It's simple. The tones with which the votes of some groups have been commented - I admit - have not been normal, because the vote is still free. [[Senator Urso's comments.]] Senator Urso, I think it is very clear: the Minister has been asked to report to the House as soon as possible and some groups have voted against it. Intelligent pauca. Mr Urso (FdI). Next week when they're dead.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u58	Senator Malan, state clearly what you want to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u59	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I have said this quite clearly before, but obviously I have not been.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u60	Not so much. You want to ask, having been rejected your proposal, that when - God willing - a representative of the Government in the Assembly, it is not more of an information, but of a communication. Is that your request?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u61	Almost. I propose that the Minister come to the Senate next week because, since the Assembly meets, we do not understand why we cannot add two hours to the discussions already planned.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u62	So in the week before the week indicated.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u63	MALAN (FI-BP). They say, however, that when it comes, if you believe that two votes can be taken, it is a matter of communication and not of information, so that the Groups can express themselves and what has already emerged during the last two speeches can be presented in their own way.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u65	You have the right to do so. Never was the calendar so controversial.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u66	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, it is not controversial, but the Rules of Procedure provide for an explanation of vote on the timetable proposals. I understand the intervention of my colleague, the League's Parent Company, but the truth is clear. We asked yesterday to hear Minister Moavero Milanesi on the important issue of international relations within Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This argument is over. Mr Marcucci (PD). No, it's not out of date. Mr President, I do what I want to do with the explanation of vote. You can't tell me how to do it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, make an explanation of vote after we've said what we're voting on. Mr Marcucci (PD). I'll argue as I please. Mr Verducci (PD). You can't question matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u67	I'll give you the floor later. [[Senator Marcucci's protests.]] I'll have her do the surgery, but first let's say what. Senator Malan made the proposal to integrate the schedule of work by requesting the presence in the Government Hall not in the week from 5 to 7 February, but in the previous week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u69	You have the right to do so. You can intervene now, Senator Marcucci. It is enough to proceed in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u70	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am in favour of moving forward in an orderly manner. Precisely because the majority and the government are constantly refusing to bring to this House the subject of the evil foreign policy that the majority and the government are leading in Europe and outside Europe, we agree that Minister Moavero Milanesi should come as soon as possible and tell us what this Government is up to! [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups and Senator Unterberger.]] We have heard what the Senator of the 5 Star Movement said this morning in this House. Are those the crazy positions of this majority? Is that the position of Minister Moavero Milanesi? We want to know! The Senate has a right to know! The government has a duty to report to Parliament! He has a duty! [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] It cannot dodge this which I understand to be, with their way of doing, a footprint. For us, Parliament is not an embodiment. Parliament is the place where democracy is identified in the institutions. So, the government takes care of it. The majority take responsibility and have Minister Moavero Milanesi come to the Chamber and explain to us what they are doing in foreign policy! [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u73	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Holding Company of the Group for the Autonomies has explained well what has happened, and we all see it. Colleagues, I sincerely say to you that the subject of Parliament's expropriation is becoming a serious issue. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]] Beyond that, however, there is an additional problem here. Senator Romeo, I value you, and I understand very well that you, of course, do your part. I also understand that there may be majority issues about a measure such as this, because they would not be the first to happen in the world. In Italy, in the past, we have had some. Therefore, I fully understand that there are problems between the parties of the majority, that the measure in question is more controversial than others and that, therefore, we have a shift in time. Here, however, there is a different issue. Here is a matter of political topicality on which we call for the Government to report. This is something that has traditionally never been denied. Senator Romeo, you are too smart to tell us that sooner or later the government will come: there would be no more! In this way, she insults our intelligence. Here there are problems - as Senator Gasparri pointed out - that are of this moment. So, if the government cannot come this afternoon, we ask that it come tomorrow morning, but it cannot be said that the government will come. By the way, I would also like to say to Senator Marcucci that yesterday, before the last events, he had made a fair request on the subject of France and that Venezuela is a problem today, yesterday, of the last hours. It cannot be postponed, as a political debate, in a week's time, because the situation would change substantially. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD]] AIROLA (M5S). Venezuela's situation has been the same for two years!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u76	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked to speak earlier, but I am now going back to what Mr Malan has asked. I hope that we will all vote together, for the Italians living in Venezuela, on the request for communications from the Government, to be held on Monday or Tuesday (when you want) but in any case as soon as possible, because it is the only way to recover that vote against it just now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u79	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since the subject is very important and we want to discuss it so that it is not brought to the Greek calende, because otherwise it would no longer be topical, we decided at the Conference of the Leaders at the time to give, at the request of the minorities, all the time necessary for the Commission to be able to work on the Decree-Law simplifications. If the Commission is convened and has to work for the simplification decree today and probably tomorrow too, we do not have the time to deal with this issue in this House today or tomorrow. BELLANOVA (PD). What are you talking about? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Our proposal is as follows: since the calendar... BELLANOVA (PD). It's an insult to intelligence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. My colleague, I would ask you to allow Senator Romeo to speak, who is making a proposal. How can you dispute a proposal that has yet to be made? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). The proposal is as follows: since, according to the schedule of proceedings, Monday and Tuesday next week we will have the vote on the Decree-Law simplifications, as soon as this measure is finished we will do everything possible to ensure that the Minister comes to the Chamber for information, which was then the original idea. This is the proposal that we are putting forward and that we want it to be put to the vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] CALIENDO (FI-BP). No.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u80	It seems to me that the matter is quite clear. The first proposal was made by Senators Urso and Malan and is intended to request that the hearing take place not in the week from 5 to 7 February, but next week. MALAN (FI-BP). Communication. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposal corresponds as a timeline to the one put forward by the League. I am not referring to the quality of the intervention. Let us vote on this. There are two separate arguments. At the moment the timetable of the works previews that the information is previewed in the week that goes from 5 to 7 February. If you agree, I would vote on the proposal to anticipate the previous week, and then put it to the vote. If rejected, without the need for a vote, it automatically becomes an information notice, as it was provided in the calendar. The first vote, therefore, is intended to anticipate, compared to the calendar that has been proposed to you, the request for intervention of the Government on the Venezuelan affair to next week. CALIENDO (FI-BP). Tuesday. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It can be Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday. I talked about the week. As soon as possible. After the examination of the Decree-Law simplifications, is there a precise day in your request or am I simply referring to the week starting from Monday 28 January? I'm saying we vote on the advance of government intervention from 5 to 7 February to 28 January. Is that right? It seems to me that the request for a specific day has not been made, but it has been said after the examination of the Decree-Law simplifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u83	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). President, that's not good. After the conversion of the decree-law means that we are teasing people, because there are six days. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] The presence cannot be there after the conversion of the decree-law: at least Monday morning is said.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u84	Senator Casini, we have just voted and the House has rejected the proposal to ask for the Minister to come today and, therefore, this cannot be done before Monday. Who said, then, after the conversion of the decree-law? I said that the proposal is to anticipate the Minister's request for presence to the week beginning on 28 January and, therefore, the first possible day for me is 28 January, unless you propose me a specific day. No one said the exact day. The proposal is that of Senator Malan. We shall then proceed to the vote on Senator Malan's proposal to include Mr Moavero Milanesi's communications in the agenda for the week from 28 January to 1 February. MALAN (FI-BP). No! CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Let's not vote for this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That was the proposal. You can't change the proposals every two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u87	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, apart from the need to regulate the volume of amplification, because we are far beyond amplification... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, leave me alone now. MALAN (FI-BP). I'm not leaving it because there are workers here. We are not considered to be such, but there are people who are entitled to protection of safety at work and there cannot always be more in this House than in jobs, including mechanical workshops. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, my proposal - I have also made it twice, because you correctly considered it to be unclear - was that communications should take place on Monday or Tuesday next week. I understand President Casini, but I admit that earlier I asked for it to be Monday or Tuesday. President Casini now said that Tuesday is too late, but I want to reiterate that I did not say Monday to Saturday, but I said either Monday or Tuesday: that is what I proposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u88	All right. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's proceedings to include on the agenda the communications from Mr Moavero Milanesi, Senator Malan, on Monday 28 or Tuesday 29 January. It's not approved. CALIENDO (FI-BP). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Let's now move on to the proposal of Senator Romeo to include the information of Minister Moavero Milanesi in the calendar of the week that runs from 28 January to 1 February, as soon as the examination of the bill n. 989 of conversion of Decree-Law 14 December 2018, n. 135, in the matter of simplifications.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u91	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). The Forza Italia Group will probably abstain on this proposal, but I would like to make it absolutely clear that we are not talking about a time problem here: two foreign policy concepts have been discussed here. Anyone with a minimum of knowledge of what foreign policy is, knows that time in this case has a variable geometry. I mean, while a decree-law can be voted on today or next week, there are events in foreign policy that take place at certain stages and are even conditioned by hours or minutes. To say that it is discussed after the examination of a measure, it means one thing that is clear and only that each of us knows it: it means that this matter is considered a problem that comes after our internal affairs and we do not want to intervene at the moment when the problem is defined. A coup d'état or a situation of difficulty, if taken into account after three or four days - as we would say in these parts "to dead father" - means that they are commented on. There is no intervention on the action of a country at the time when a matter occurs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's the difference. That's the problem. With great calmness: there is no difficulty in taking note of this, but that is what we are voting for. We asked to know what we were doing. We have been told that Parliament must not know and will be informed when the facts have taken place. That is why we are voting against it, not because of a delay or a problem of time alone. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u93	I recall that the Senate has already voted against the other proposals. Only the one put forward by Senator Romeo, on which Senator Marcucci is allowed to speak, remains to be voted. He therefore has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u94	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the same calmness and also with the hope that we can take a step forward - and I am speaking in particular to my colleague, Senator Romeo - we take note of the votes that have just been taken and we do not return to this issue. However, we call at least for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to intervene here in order to make communications and for the commitment of the majority and the Government to ensure that this happens on Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning next week. I remember that Venezuela is a country where Italians have a relevant history and where many of our fellow citizens live and have interests. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] It is a compelling theme for the interest of our country and our national community. That is why I ask Senator Romeo to turn the information provided by the Minister into communications. We would also like to have the Government's commitment to the solicitation to be made to Minister Moavero Milanesi. But how much will this minister have to do that is never available to the Senate of the Republic? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I understand you're busy, but maybe the Senate has some rights. During the weekend we will send the Minister a Constitution to clarify the ideas on institutional balance and what a parliamentary democracy is. Having said that, we ask Senator Romeo to turn the information into communications and the Government to commit that Tuesday evening, or - at the latest - Wednesday morning Minister Moavero Milanesi intervenes here to illustrate the position of the Government. Communications are important. Unlike information, communications will give individual parliamentarians and groups the opportunity to get into the details of the issue and take specific positions. The Italian Government must take precise positions together with Parliament on a sensitive issue such as this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u97	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, in these hours - and not next week, or in two weeks' time, Senator Romeo - all the governments... DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). The governments! Mr Urso (FdI)... they are expressing their views on this matter. Senator Romeo, in these hours, while here we are discussing whether the Italian Government should inform or communicate in two weeks, all other governments are expressing themselves. There are those who, like Erdogan, side with Maduro and those who, like Bolsonaro, side with the freedom of Venezuelan citizens. All governments are expressing themselves. Does Italy not express itself because this argument is not in the Government contract? [[Applause from the FdI, PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] We are talking about Italy, which, unlike Turkey, has two million fellow citizens living in Venezuela, relatives of some ten million Italians who are here. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] More than any other country in the world we have a duty to express ourselves and not to postpone for two weeks, after the examination of the so-called simplification decree. You have summoned us to this House for weeks, waiting for an agreement to be reached on the drills. We're here today, too. Why not take the exam today? We're here. Why not tomorrow? Why not Sunday? At any time the government has the duty, better if with communications, to come here and tell us whether it takes sides on one side or on the other, because not taking sides today means giving the go-ahead to the bloody repression of Maduro. Do we want to understand or not that two million Italians risk their lives in that country? We need to express ourselves now. The government has to choose which side to stand on. Italy is with Italians in Venezuela. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Unterberger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u100	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, I rise to draw the House's attention. This morning we set a criterion whose effect is equal, at least, to that of the Copernican revolution in science: that is, we established the principle that foreign policy is timeless and that, alternatively, the drills are superior in importance and importance to two million Italians living in Venezuela. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] This principle is overwhelming, because if their lives or the lives of citizens who vote for this Parliament are less important and therefore do not bring the minister responsible to the Chamber, let us establish a criterion which does not have equals in history, not of the Italian Republic, but of united Italy, from 1860 until this morning, and it is right that this House should know this and call for a responsibility which in one hundred and fifty years in this House has never failed, except today. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, FI-BP, PD and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u103	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, this debate seems a bit surreal to me: soon someone will ask if there is the opinion of the Budget Commission on the civil war in Venezuela, because we are mixing the dramatic events of humanity with the timetable of work, the Commission's activity, communications and information, things that nobody would understand outside of here. We have posed a problem that history poses: it is not that the agenda of the Senate of the Italian Republic comes before what happens in humanity. The free parliaments cannot determine the course of history. I do not deceive myself that if we are having a debate today, tomorrow morning or Monday, the world changes, but the free parliaments are a garrison of freedom, for themselves and for the world: this is what we are saying in this House, so it is appropriate to talk about what is happening. Then we can argue. There are governments that have recognized this new institution, such as that of the United States of America. Are we or are we not allies of the United States? It is not that the United States' decision not to recognize Maduro and to recognize others is irrelevant and this applies to other countries still. I therefore call on my colleagues in the majority to have wisdom, then we can discuss when it will be, but this attitude of mixing the dramas of history with the misery of drills and amendments is a mistake that the Senate cannot tolerate. Long live Venezuela of the Venezuelan people! That is what we have to say here today, because there are people who risk going under the tanks and what will be told them? Wait, we suspend the civil war, why do they need to know when they're gonna talk about it in Rome? We must not cover ourselves with this shame. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u104	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Industriale "Giovanni Caso" in Piedimonte Matese, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u105	At this point, exhausted the interventions, I put to the vote the proposal to modify the timetable of the intense activities aimed to proceed to the information of the Government on Venezuela next week as soon as the examination of the decree-simplifications law, advanced from Senator Romeo. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. This means that there may be a need to add another day to the next week's calendar, which provided for only the examination of the Decree-Law simplifications. If necessary, the Assembly may also be convened on Wednesday or another day. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). We said Monday or Tuesday! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, when the examination of the Decree-Law simplifications is completed, another sitting will have to be foreseen. We have therefore exhausted the issue and I note that Venezuela, fortunately, has been considered more important than in my time Bangladesh was considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u108	FADELI (PD). Mr President, I do not think that my speech is really an end-of-session speech, but I take note of the course of today's debate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator, yours is an end-of-session surgery. You have three minutes. FADELI (PD). All right, thank you for giving me the floor. I just want to remind you in this House that it seems to me to be an important place, which in my opinion deserves respect, the figure of Guido Rossa. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u109	Colleagues, those who are not interested in the commemoration of Guido Rossa are asked to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u110	FADELI (PD). I hope at least you are, Mr President. Exactly on the morning of January 24, 1979, 40 years ago, the Red Brigades shot Guido Rossa to death, after having forcibly picked him up as he entered the factory. Guido Rossa was a worker enrolled in the CGIL. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u111	Excuse me, Senator. Colleagues, I think the memory of a Red Brigade victim deserves more attention. She is remembering one of the many victims of the BR, which, however, marked a turning point in Italian politics, so I think she deserves attention. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u112	Thank you, President. As I said, Guido Rossa was a worker enrolled in the CGIL, a militant worker of the Italian Communist Party, a worker who had no doubt to take sides, to decide on which side to stand and to act accordingly, even at a historical moment - I want to remember - when the political clash was so violent that he put his life at risk. He was a worker and a trade unionist who fought for his people, to make the conditions of work and therefore of life more just and dignified, who believed in democracy and was ready to fight to defend it from those who wanted to annihilate the Republic, blaming its values, the spaces of democratic coexistence, the sense of community. He had no doubt that he denounced a colleague of the Italsider factory, who was spreading fliers that were renowned for the armed struggle: Red was the first to do so in this country. He did what his conscience indicated to him as right, what his community of reference, the CGIL, believed was a responsibility of all workers to stop attempts to infiltrate the factories and fight in any way the terrorism, which Luciano Lama called mortal enemy of the working class. As you know, never in CGIL were there attitudes of understanding towards those whom someone called "compañeros who make mistakes"; never was there a hesitation in the face of those who said they were not with the State, nor with the BR. They were not "compañeros" who killed: there was no other part where workers and trade unionists could stand that was not that of the state and democracy. Guido Rossa was strongly convinced of this, humanly and politically; so convinced to act, to risk, not to fear for his own life and for his own family; so convinced that he was chosen by terrorists as one of those who had to be punished, hit, killed. When Luciano Lama took the floor on the day of the funeral, in front of almost 250,000 women and men who came to pay homage to that worker who had given his life for democracy, he firmly reiterated the condemnation of all forms of violence and the commitment of the union against terrorism, to defend freedom and the Republic. Luciano Lama said: If the gesture of civil courage made by Comrade Rossa had not remained too isolated, if (...) all of us (...) had been one great witness against the enemy of democracy, perhaps the life of this comrade would not have been broken. Words echoed by a factory companion of Guido, Paolo Perugino, of the executive of the factory council of Italsider: "Red Guide was killed because he did not bend, because he did not ignore, because he was not afraid and wanted to live to the end, with consistency, his political choice. Those who hoped, with this assassination, that we would be appalled in our factories were wrong. They do not know what stubborn anger and determination we are capable of. Of that morning of 24 February 1979 and of the following days I personally remember, together with many others, the dismay and infinite sadness, of course, of a first moment, but then anger and determination; the anger and determination of the entire trade union movement, of CGIL, CISL and UIL, and of all the democratic political array that had been close to Guido's ideas and battles. Throughout Italy, something changed that day, also thanks to that anger and determination; the anger and determination of workers and workers. Thus began the end of terrorism, which unfortunately will not spare other victims, but which suddenly found itself more isolated in its delirious claims and in its mad violence. Remembering today Guido Rossa here means, then, remembering and reaffirming his example and I want to strongly condemn the writings appeared yesterday, which are an insult not only to him, but to all the memory and all the democratic Italy of our history. [[Applause.]] We remember Guido on the anniversary of the day he was killed, but we remember him above all for the example of his life, for the moral force, for the sense of justice and equality, for the spirit of solidarity. [[The microphone of the Senator Fedeli automatically disables]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u113	My colleague, I've already given you more than twice the time allowed. As you can see, I didn't interrupt you, but I would ask you to synthesize the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u114	FADELI (PD). For the spirit of solidarity, generosity and courage that have always characterized it, to the end. His is not, therefore, the example of a martyr, but of a civil hero. Of course, as President Mattarella recalled yesterday in the remembrance ceremony in Genoa, Guido did not intend to become a hero, but he wanted to be faithful to himself, to what he intended to build for the future of his family, of the neighborhood where he lived, of the factory in which he worked, of the whole society. "He didn't delay," they are still words of the President, "to wonder if it was up to him to fight terrorism." But he knew how to fight for all. Thanking today Guido Rossa and his whole family for what he has suffered I believe it is a necessary act; I believe it is right and a great teaching for the younger generations. I am glad that there are also children in the Chamber who are watching our work. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u115	I join, without if and without but, with the memory of Guido Rossa and I do it with a greater transport as I had to be present at the funeral of the first victims of the Red Brigades, Giralucci and Mazzola, who were murdered in the seat of the Italian Social Movement in Padua. My solidarity is therefore complete and close. On this subject, some Members have asked for a short membership.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u117	You have the right to do so, even though we are going against all the rules on timing today.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u118	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). You are perfectly right, but the theme is relevant and it is even more relevant for those who are Genoese like me and for those who, like me, have deep family roots within that factory, where the events remembered happened. I agree, therefore, with the considerations made by Senator Fedeli and, also on our part, I think it was correct and right to remember those times, also in the form of teaching for the future, as happened today in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u121	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Fedeli and ask the Presidency to consider whether to open the proceedings next Monday, with a moment of the whole Senate, dedicated to the recognition of this personality which, as the President of the Republic recalled yesterday, is and is a turning point for this country and our history. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I really ask the Presidency to open, on Monday, not with a debate, but with a solemn moment in this House in memory of Guido Rossa. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u122	I will certainly pass on this request, which - you understand - could be combined with requests from other groups, for him and for other victims of the Red Brigades.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u125	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak briefly to join, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, in the memory of this worker, trade unionist and citizen who, at one of the most dramatic moments of the terrorist phenomenon, became an authentic collection of ordinary citizens and workers, who at that time reaffirmed the value of democracy and the rejection of violence. A greeting to the family is necessary, remembering the shining example of Guido Rossa, which is also the commitment of all Italian citizens to defend the values of democracy and to do so, if there will be occasion also deepening the topic with debates, so that drunkenness of violence, ideological hangovers of that type do not have to repeat in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u128	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, with infinite sensitivity, calmness and clarity, I would like to remind this House and the President that in 2011 the Customs Agency held a competition for 69 posts for second-class executives. Much has been said about this competition in the classrooms of the administrative courts, but above all in the parliamentary classrooms, because it is a competition that has reported many vices, starting from the correction of the topics of examination, which has been carried out in a personal way by a member of the committee and not in a collegial way. In addition to this, there have been much more serious scandals, so much so that inside the Official Journals that were distributed during the competition there were written tests carried out of the competition itself, a very serious thing. This led to investigations, including criminal investigations, and on 1 February there will be a hearing in front of the judge for preliminary investigations. There have been appeals, many of which have been rejected, but in a decision rejecting one of these appeals, reference is made to the possibility of the Administration to withdraw the competition in self-protection. Since I am sure and sure that I am part of a civilized country, perhaps this competition should really be withdrawn, because we cannot have the doubt that some can pass this contest so full of vices. My prayer is this, really more than a prayer is a wish, which I wanted to communicate to the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u131	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the abandonment of coal and the replacement of fossil fuels by renewable energy sources, which are contextual to an effort towards energy efficiency, are part of the government's programme. In the field of renewables, however, in Calabria there is an abnormal proliferation of wind farms, accomplice of the Oliverio junta, naturally willing to grant VIA favorable and too often backed up by certain directors of the Ministry for the goods and cultural activities ready, in the matter of protection of the landscape, to close not one, but both eyes. For the same reason and with the same complicity, in a region that is rapidly depopulated, the mother of landfills (whether for waste of the public or special cycle) is more prolific than the famous white sow of Enea. This puts at risk the health of the citizens and attentive to the landscape values of a territory in itself, instead of the quality agri-food and sustainable tourism. We can only support, therefore, with the group Ambiente e Territorio di Mongrassano, in Cosentino, today engaged in the right battle against the plant for the production of electricity from wind source called Air of the wind, designed by the Gamesa energia Italia SpA (today Siemens Gamesa), contrasted by residents not for a preconception of modernity, but for sensible and shared reasons. Personally I will never stop deploring the distortion of language, so the names no longer reflect the substance of things: I am thinking of wind park but also, in the field of waste treatment, the use of the term "value-added" by thermo-value-added, i.e. incineration, now so deeply rooted that even the attempted destruction of the country's material and intangible cultural heritage, consciously or not assimilated to waste, through the so-called Franceschini reforms, calls itself "value-added." It raises the public's appreciation of the fact that the wind farm insists on the Apennine dorsal that overlooks the village of Mongrassano, to also affect areas related to the neighboring municipalities of San Marco Argentano and Cervicati, some of which walked by fire in recent years. Well, it is well known that called dorsal is crossed by an important fracture of the earth's crust: the San Fili-San Marco Argentano fault. It is not enough, because the entire macro-area called Coast Chain and Pedemontana Belt, as we read in the update of the programme of forecasting and risk prevention and of the emergency plan of the Province of Cosenza, adopted in 2014, is also characterized by a very high risk of landslide. We still have in our eyes the cancellation of the town and the serious consequences for the whole district caused by the landslide that affected the nearby village Cavallerizzo of the Municipality of Cerzeto. In a territory so fragile from the geological point of view, the wind farm Aria del vento is notable also on the environmental level, both for the failure to respect the distances prescribed by the nearest protected natural areas of the Natura 2000 network, and for the coincidence with one of the ridge paths inserted by the Calabria Region in the project of enhancement... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u134	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, my speech is intended to call for a reply to Question 3-00116, tabled on 19 July 2018. With this question we asked at what point were the events that concerned the completion of the motorway connection Asti-Cuneo, that for twenty years the territory of the Province of Cuneo asks, since the city of Cuneo is still the only provincial capital in Italy not connected to a highway. At the end of the last legislature, Minister Delrio had agreed a cross financing authorized by the European Union, for which against an extension of the concession of four years of Turin-Milan, the concessionary company would have realized this completion. The new Minister Toninelli had asked to be able to examine the papers to make an assessment and in January of this year a Member of the Movimento 5 Stars issued a statement, in which she said that the door of the Minister was always open and if someone wanted to speak with the Minister would be well accepted, to some extent certifying that the Minister had done nothing to complete the agreement with the concessionary company. Last week, the vice president of the Di Maio Council said that they were considering suspending all the path made and doing yes to completion, but with state funds. I am therefore here to ask the answer to the question (and on yesterday we presented a further one, in the light of the new elements that have arisen), but above all to ask that the Government tell us what it intends to do. From this point of view, I have heard Minister Toninelli say that they will make all the agreements again, because they will make them much better and more in the interest of the territory and the communities. I am only here to say, subtlely, that from the accounts made by the economic forces of our territory it emerges that that failure to complete costs the economy of the territory from 8 to 10 million euros per month. Having said that, we would not want, in order to save perhaps 10 or 20 million public spending and not to make the agreement of cross financing, the menaissimo another two years, at a cost of a few hundred million euros for the economy of the territory. We do not understand the logic behind this crazy approach to land infrastructure. We certainly ask for an answer to the question, but also, softly, that at least we do not destroy what had been done. Then, if they want to do better, we will all applaud if that happens.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u137	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am also referring to the debate on Venezuela in order to urge on behalf of my Group, once again, the setting up of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, which has not yet been reconstituted only in this parliamentary term and only in this part of Parliament. The Italians who live in Venezuela, who are in large numbers, have been mentioned: well, the institutionally elected place to deepen and make proposals on these issues is the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad. For the past year, it has not been reconstituted and the right to make proposals on these issues in the Committee is a serious responsibility of the current majority of Italians who are democratically elected abroad. I therefore urge the Constitution, pointing out that in the foreign constituency, in this branch of Parliament, two representatives have been elected, one of whom sits on behalf of the MAIE Group to the Government, with a responsibility of State Secretary, is very active in the territory and has also carried out missions in Venezuela. Why not then audit undersecretary Merlo on the specific situation of Italians in Venezuela? It might be appropriate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u138	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-83.ana.u139	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 28 January, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.16 a.m.
