ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 5 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 18 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 733, 122, 176, and 697. The rapporteur, Senator Pisani Giuseppe, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u5	Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, representative of the Government, this bill, which lays down rules on the disposition of one's body and post-mortem tissue, provides for the donation of one's body after death to health care facilities and stems from the need to regulate the dissection of corpses for the purposes of study, training and scientific research, an indispensable practice for all medicine and, above all, for the exercise of surgery. For students of medicine and surgery it is very important to practice dissection on the human body for the purpose of a correct learning of the anatomy of the human species, as it is also for doctors in specialized training, mainly in the surgical branches; the study on the corpse is of fundamental importance in the surgical field, both for the current practice and for the development of particularly complex interventions, which, moreover, for the experimentation of new medical approaches, new surgical techniques and also of new technologies. In existence, in our country, the number of donations of the corpse is very limited because the current legislation is not entirely clear or exhaustive, as it does not protect the principle of self-determination of the individual and the consequent modalities of implementation until the time of death, nor regulates the path of the donation from the donor subject to the competent fruiting structure; this, in fact, prevents the realization of a logistic network and the programming of studies and research on organs from corpse. In order to fill this gap and meet these needs, in recent years numerous parliamentary initiatives have been carried out called for by scientific, university and associative institutions, which have tried to give a normative definition to the free choice of citizens in relation to the use of their own body after death and the scientific-educational use of it in the relevant centres. In the 17th legislature several draft laws on the disposition of one's body and post-mortem tissue for the purposes of study and scientific research were presented; in June 2014 a unified text was approved by the XII Commission (Social Affairs) of the Chamber of Deputies, then concluded in the legislative framework. The measure was then sent to the Senate and remained in the examination of the 12th Commission (hygiene and health) without, however, being approved. The aim of this bill is therefore to give citizens, in full respect of the law, the possibility of giving their bodies so that they can be used for purposes of high ethical and human value, thus contributing to the improvement of medical science through research and training on a human model. The text is composed of ten articles. Article 1 regulates the donation of the post-mortem body for the purposes of study, training and scientific research; the use of the human body or post-mortem tissues is expected to be informed of the principles of solidarity and proportionality shall be governed in such a way as to ensure respect for the human body. Article 2 provides for the promotion of information to citizens. The Minister of Health shall promote information initiatives aimed at disseminating knowledge of the provisions of this law among citizens. Regions and local health companies take initiatives to spread among general medical doctors, free choice pediatricians, doctors of public and private health facilities, practitioners of health professions knowledge of the provisions of this law, as well as to spread the same among citizens, through appropriate publicity to municipal administrations and also through voluntary organizations. Article 3 provides that the act of disposition of one's body or post-mortem tissue shall be carried out by means of a declaration of consent to the use of those tissues drawn up in the forms provided for in Article 4 (6) of Law No 219 of 22 December 2017 concerning the rules on informed consent and early processing provisions. The declaration shall be handed over to the health care company to which it is required to keep it and to transmit its information to the database referred to in paragraph 418 of Article 1 of Law No 205 of 27 December 2017. The applicant, in the declaration referred to in paragraph 1, shall indicate a person of his or her trust, who shall be responsible for communicating the existence of the specific consent to the doctor who determines his or her death. In the same statement, the originator may indicate a substitute for the trustee to perform the role of the trustee in the event of death or inability of the trustee. The appointment of the trustee, as well as his replacement, may be revoked by the applicant at any time in the same manner as the appointment and without any obligation to state reasons. You may revoke your consent at any time. The withdrawal must be communicated to the health care company. In cases where reasons of emergency and urgency prevent the withdrawal of the consent already expressed, it may be expressed by verbal declaration collected or recorded by a doctor, with the assistance of two witnesses. For minors, consent to the use of the body or post-mortem tissues must be expressed by both parents who exercise parental responsibility, i.e. by guardians or caregivers pursuant to Law No 184 of 4 May 1983. Article 4 governs reference centres. The Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of Education, University and Research, after agreement in the Permanent Conference for Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, shall identify the university structures, the hospitals of high specialty and the institutes of scientific hospitalization and care (IRCCS) to be used as reference centres for the conservation and use of the bodies of the deceased for the purposes referred to in this law. Article 5 provides for the establishment of the national list of reference centres identified in accordance with Article 4 for the conservation and use of bodies of the deceased. The list, which can be found on the website of the Ministry of Health, should be updated in a timely manner so as to allow the doctor who determines the death of the competent reference centre for the territory. Article 6 provides for the return of the deceased's body. The reference centres identified are required to return the body to the family in dignified conditions within 12 months of the date of delivery. The costs of transport of the body from the time of death to its return, the costs of burial, and the costs of any cremation shall be borne by the reference centres. Article 7 provides for the discipline of donations of money for study, training and research purposes. The use of the human body, parts of it or post-mortem tissues may not have a profit purpose. Any donation of money made by private individuals for the purposes of study, training and scientific research through the use of bodies of the deceased or resulting from the finalisation of research projects shall be intended for the management of reference centres identified in accordance with Article 4. Rule 8 sets out the Implementing Regulation. Within three months of the date of entry into force of this law, with regulations to be adopted pursuant to article 17, paragraph 1, letter b), of the law 23 August 1988, n. 400, on proposal of the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior and with the Minister of Education, University and Research, after agreement in the Permanent Conference for relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, it is ensured: to establish the modalities and the times, however, not more than twelve months for the conservation, for the request, for the transport, for the use and for the return of the body of the deceased in dignified conditions to the family by the reference centers; to provide for provisions of connection with the law of the civil state governed by the Regulation of the decree of the President of the Republic 3 November 2000, n. 396. Article 9 provides that the implementation of this law should not result in new or higher public finance charges. Article 10 repeals a provision in force incompatible with the rules introduced and, in particular, Article 32 of the single text of the Higher Education Laws of the Royal Decree of 31 August 1933, No 1592.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u6	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We must now proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure, but the deadline of 20 minutes has not yet elapsed since the beginning of the sitting referred to in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure. Knowing the interest and commitment that Senator Binetti put in the bill, who asked the Presidency to intervene on the order of business, I give you this option.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u7	Thank you very much, President. The issue of the adoption of this bill is particularly important to me, and - as my colleague said - it comes from various legislation, because it represents, in the training of the doctor, a point of particular interest that I would like to put to the attention of this House. It is an activity, that of testing on the post-mortem body, which contributes deeply to increasing the clinical and surgical skills and abilities, as well as those of the medical student, which shifts the personal and direct experimentation of the human body, also considered at the end of a serious illness that caused its death. But it's not just clinical skills and surgical skills, what we call clinical skills and technical skills, that are interesting. All the bill is built around the respect of the person who was the one who died and who, in that commentary, continues to be before us. They are what we call the ethical skills, that is, the respect of the person who if it is due to the corpse, if it is due to parts of the corpse on which you study, even more is due to the person in its totality. The other important element of this bill is the return of the corpse, i.e. the relationship of the subject with his family, for which he attaches a remarkable value to the ritual of death and burial, so the body must be returned as much as possible in its integrity. So, as you see colleagues, fundamental aspects of the training of the doctor are at stake, not only what he knows how to do, but what he is as a person and also what, in some way, he can give in the relationship with those who are no longer there but he continues to exist in a certain way and with the family who becomes the holder of a meaningful relationship. Today we all need to give back to the training of the doctor the complexity and completeness of all these aspects. We can't just have a technically very skilled doctor, which we wouldn't even have if there wasn't the availability of the corpse, so that he can measure himself with that sensitivity, with that touch that becomes particularly relevant when you think you can replace these operations with virtual operations (I just think about the study of the corpse done through the 3D representation, through the computerized dimension). To touch, to experience, to know that life is in a certain way and that I touch even with the hand of death, helps to give an awareness, begins to give a prudence in acting that is also a dimension of the value of life not only from the beginning to the end, we could say at the moment of natural death, as we often like to say. This is a respect for life that goes beyond death, which defines and recognizes to man that dignity which he had and which nevertheless continues to have in his physical dimension, in his dimension of affective memory (see the relationship with the family) and in the even spiritual dimension, for what it was, in the generosity that led him to give himself, to surrender himself to society completely and completely. We established the gift day years ago. Here we speak of a gift of self that each of us makes to science, assuming it as a positive interlocutor in the dimension of relations with the whole of society. I am only saying this because that which we are examining may seem to be a bill of secondary importance or which may continue to give rise to some perplexity. In fact, it is a bill in which there is a completeness of values that are realized and that is why I recommend to the whole Assembly, so that it recognizes and appreciates its value and therefore votes positively. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u8	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Giovanni Bovio) in Foggia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u9	We shall now proceed to the vote on the articles of draft law No 733, in the text put forward by the Commission. I ask colleagues to withdraw the cards and take their seats. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u12	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, this is an important bill. I share what Senator Binetti said and thank the President of the Sileri Health Commission, who has worked very hard together with the other Commissioners. Some procedural doubts have also been resolved. I believe that this is a fundamental element for scientific training and research. The issue has been addressed from the point of view of the particular sensitivity that we need to have when dealing with such issues. As my fellow Members already know, it remains a fundamental question for me, concerning Article 9 and the financial provisions. It is a law that I agree with from start to finish, but that risks not being financed and that is a big problem, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot continue to make just, important and indispensable laws, but without, at the same time, providing them with the necessary legs to be applied. Our Group votes with conviction on this bill. I stress and recommend to the Government that they have particular attention to give an answer: to unchanged regulations and without additional burdens for public finance, they make proclamations, they make posters, but they do not do things. I know that there is a sensitivity also from the Ministry of Health: we must be able to find a concrete answer. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u15	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I only wish to express my satisfaction at the fact that this proposal for a law was adopted, which also took place in previous legislation but which clearly did not find the necessary political consensus or the composition of the necessary political consensus, which was the case this time. I must say that my satisfaction must be extended to the members of the Commission, because this is already the second measure which, with President Sileri, we unanimously approved in the Commission on the substance, after the important measure on the cancer register. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the substance of a text which, in my opinion, is sufficiently measured and which gives answers to a whole range of questions and needs, including the non-secondary question of training. I am attacking the perplexities expressed by my colleague Errani about the need not to cover in terms of financial resources, i.e. the forecast of not burdening the State with any expenditure in relation to this law, because this seems to us the usual match of the discharge: we load on the Regions, on the ASL, on the Regional Health Service - with the Regions in large part already devastated, devastated and commissioners, like you, colleagues, you know perfectly well - and on the universities, the cost of this law, which is also difficult to quantify at this stage, but certainly will not be exorbitant. I hope, therefore, that, in the coming years, it will find coverage in the state budget and in the availability of the competent Ministry, which is the Ministry of Health. Apart from this perplexity, there is no question of the positive nature of the measure, so much so that Brothers of Italy voted for it in the Commission and will vote for it in the Chamber, certainly considering it more important that the law covers some serious shortcomings, which had already been manifested for years and had not been answered in the previous legislature. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u18	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on today, as my fellow Members have already said, is intended first of all to fill a legal vacuum, as there are still no specific provisions in our system concerning the donation of the post-mortem body and the use of corpses for study, scientific research and training purposes. The 12th Commission, as other Members have rightly said, has over the past few weeks concluded the joint debate on four measures, reaching a single text with broad convergence between the political forces. The aim is to give citizens the opportunity to donate their body, so that it can be used for purposes of high ethical and human value, thus giving the opportunity to study all those diseases that are unknown to nature and on which it is difficult to do scientific research. I can only express my appreciation for the content of the draft law under consideration, especially for the value that is attached to the dignity and respect of the human body. The subject of the measure is not new, as we have said, to the attention of Parliament: already in past legislation the debate in the relevant Commissions has been animated, reaching even very advanced stages, but never to a definitive approval. The draft law stems precisely from the need to regulate the practice of dissection for study, scientific research and training purposes, an indispensable practice for all medicine and mainly for the exercise of surgery, which currently clashes with current legislation not entirely clear or exhaustive. What currently makes this opportunity unworkable in Italy is the very limited number of donations, which effectively blocks the realization and programming of studies and research on corpse organs. The donation of a whole body, on the other hand, does not require particular procedures. It is sufficient that the will of the donor is expressed in the testamentary and that there are no judicial interests on the body (need for autopsy). In our country the practice of dissection for study and research purposes is infrequent. This has a negative effect especially on Italian medical students, who lack an effective possibility to deepen their anatomical knowledge and who use for the exercises methods currently virtual, who absolutely cannot give the same awareness of surgical action on a human body compared to the images reproduced by the screen of a computer; just as it is not given the possibility to the citizen to donate his own body so that it can be used for purposes of high ethical and human value, such as study, precisely, and scientific research. Scientific research, in fact, would also receive great help from the provisions of the measure under consideration, in particular with regard to the study of those diseases on which it is most engaged and for the practice of new surgical techniques, microscopic and minimalist. Another important aspect that characterizes this bill is the fact that, through the donation of their post-mortem body, changes the approach towards experiments on living and animals: surgeons doctors would have the possibility to carry out their research on human anatomy and not of any other species. The results of scientific research would be useful and beneficial to the whole community. The consent to the donation, it must be remembered, takes place by means of a declaration drawn up in the form of the authenticated public act or private writing. For the consent to the donation of the post-mortem body, the draft law in question, which I remember, as we said earlier, in previous legislatures has been the subject of discussion in Parliament, has been updated in this draft in accordance with article 4, paragraph 6, of law n. 219 of 2017 on early declarations of treatment (DAT), approved in the previous legislature, by the previous Government. Children will obviously need the consent of both parents. Reference centres for the conservation and use of corpses should also be identified, which must be returned, under dignified conditions, within 12 months. A painful note, however, is in the text of the law and must be emphasized: although it has the unanimity of intent of all political forces, it will have no financial resources; this could lead to a beautiful written law but not applied because of lack of funding. Thus, for example, giving information to citizens about the possibility of donating their post-mortem bodies must think of the regions, the health companies, the municipal administrations, with their own human and instrumental resources, removing, in fact, funds to other activities. In announcing the Democratic Party's vote in favour, we hope that in the other branch of Parliament too there will be a speedy adoption of this bill, but we must remember that, also on the money front, we would like to see sufficient resources found in the next approval. We are talking, in fact, about training and scientific research, areas in which greater sensitivity is needed and for which there are no concrete intentions on the part of this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u21	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, the draft law which has just been discussed is intended to regulate legislation and therefore to promote the donations of the post-mortem body, the legal and procedural typing of which has been extensively illustrated by the rapporteur. This is a measure which we cannot fail to vote in favour of, both because it was unanimously approved by the 12th Council of Ministers. The Commission, both because it favours training and research, of which we are convinced supporters, since only with a didactic vocation to concrete learning and a focused research can we obtain results from which future generations will be able to benefit, for an ever better clinical practice, with an eye also attentive to the accounts, in order to safeguard the principle of universality of care, which represents an unnegotiable postulate in this legislature, given that, with subsidiarity, in recent years, the concept that health (as an inalienable public good) must have a strong institutional governance in terms of programming, purchase and control has been lost. As we have been able to confirm in the drafting session, the new discipline - replacing and repealing what is provided for in the single text of the laws on higher education, of which Royal Decree No 1592 of 31 August 1933 - will have to find timely and timely implementation in the planned government regulation, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education, University and Research, meaning that the State-Regions Conference intends to simplify and modulate at best the details in order to rationalise and optimize all management aspects useful to ensure the best pursuit of the aims of study, training and scientific research to which the system of donation de quo is instrumental. This is all the more important in view of the fact that, in relation to the different competences, there is a need to provide for appropriate forms of involvement of the regions, in implementation of the principle of loyal cooperation and, in particular, through the system of conferences. The measure, in fact, is attributable in some parts to the matter of exclusive state legislative competence and for others, instead, it is attributable to the subject matter of concurrent legislation. It could certainly have been done more in the field of training, but how much deliberated by the 12th The Commission is, however, the beginning of a long-awaited path by scholars and industry, which will be able to start, thanks to this measure, a new phase which is decidedly innovative. Finally, I would like to point out that the measure does not involve any new or increased burden on public finances. The public administrations concerned will implement it with the human, financial and instrumental resources available under existing legislation. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the majority and opposition for the work that has been done and, in particular, for the unanimous adoption of the measure by the 12th European Parliament. Commission, which has worked together to achieve the objective. This, as I said, is a measure to which we feel we are giving our vote in favour, because it is able to implement training and research, of which we are fervent supporters. I therefore vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u24	Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the rest of the world the donation of bodies for scientific purposes is absolutely normal, while in Italy it is still extremely rare today. Little advertised and almost a hundred years back from a legislative point of view, this form, which I would like to clarify to be of civic altruism as well as donations of organs and blood, is instead of fundamental importance for research and medical practice. The universities that have activated donation projects, although the practice of dissection of bodies is considered indispensable for all medicine and especially for us surgeons, are really few and the lack of regulation at national level is also due to the lack of sensitivity on the subject and, therefore, to the very low number of donations in recent decades. I do not want to remember the date after which this was determined because, with another type of law, there was a time when unfortunately there were unnamed corpses, unknown, on which one could exercise. I remember with great emotion the first day in the sector hall, where they really taught me the first elements. It was the seventies; then, little by little, nothing was done. In this regard we must give credit to the University of Turin and the University of Bologna because in this sense they have always distinguished themselves with uniqueness and I would say that perhaps they have opened the door to this bill that, as has been said by colleagues, for three legislatures we have tried to carry on and finally we have arrived at his vote. On the other hand, if the process was not completed previously it was not due to a lack of political will to find a solution, but for different and conflicting reasons. We know that technological progress certainly allows us to meet training needs, and here too it depends on what universities can make available, from a technological point of view, to students: a mannequin is not enough. Medicine is a science that requires precise theoretical and practical knowledge and often students, doctors, specialists and researchers ask to improve, need to improve and deepen their training and their knowledge through training courses in human anatomy. Many of these doctors, including myself, have been abroad (in Holland, Sweden) taking very expensive courses to be able to consciously practice our surgical profession. In order to strengthen this activity also in our country, we need to become aware of the need to promote scientific donation. This is a liberal donation, which takes place according to precise legal procedures, in full respect of the individual will, especially from an ethical and religious point of view. Of course, public opinion could be divided on this subject: on the one hand, there is the unanimous agreement of surgeons and legal doctors; on the other hand, there are associations that could consider this measure irreverent, perhaps macabre, which is perhaps the reason why it took so many years to achieve the result. I would like to say to all those who are against this kind of donation that the decision can be made in life by the person concerned through the manifestation of consent, very detailed in Article 3 of the bill; so, as already happens for organ donation, why not consider such a decision as respect for individual freedom? The text approved by the Commission has, as has been said, been unanimously recognised, given that, in addition to having accepted the indications of other texts - I myself had presented a draft law at the beginning of the legislative term - we have made many improvements in the amending phase, clarifying also the last doubts which have arisen mainly from the point of view of economic coverage for the expenses that the bodies should have incurred in the necessary phase of returning bodies to family members. I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group on the measure: we owe it to the development of research and science and to the generations of the future that deserve great medical progress also in our country. Let us remember that health care must also be supported by putting some money - rather than continuing to cut - into training and doctors. [[Applause from the FI-BP and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u27	SILERI (M5S). Mr President, Senators, Senators, Representatives of the Government, I would like to begin by thanking all those who have shared, and understood, the importance of this bill. A bill that sees, in this legislature, my first signature and that of many colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, but that already in the two previous legislatures had taken shape, but without completing the parliamentary process. I am convinced that in this parliamentary term the difficulties of the past have been overcome and I also hope that the text will be adopted quickly in the House of Deputies. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Binetti, who signed a similar bill in the last legislature and in this legislature. Knowing, then, his love for medicine, beyond belonging to different political groups, I thank you for your valuable cooperation. [[Applause.]] Similarly, I must thank Senators Stabile and Rizzotti and Senator Siclari of Forza Italia, Senators Bini and Boldrini and Senator Collina of PD, Senator Zaffini of Brothers of Italy and Senator Errani, divided between budget and health. [[Applause.]] I thank, therefore, Senators Cantù, Fregolent and Marin, Senator Rufa of the League and, of course, all members of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]] All the members of the Health and Health Commission, with their constant work and their sincere and constructive contribution, have been unanimous in their approval. I cannot but thank the senate officials and all those who help us in the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] This is the second draft law of parliamentary initiative which is adopted unanimously in the Commission, demonstrating that, when working for health care, there is no political colour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Schopenhauer claimed that health is not everything, but everything is nothing without health. This unanimous opinion suggests that, in the Commission, we are all moved by the same principle. I am sure that the harmony found for this bill will also help many other future measures (even if not all). At this point, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Giuseppe Pisani, who, in a comprehensive manner, related to this draft law. Now I want to get a little bit into the substance of the provision. The teaching of anatomy cannot be without dissection of bodies. A learning mediated by illustrations on books is, in fact, limited, lacking depth, proportions, consistency and three-dimensionality. The dissection and its repeated exercise offer manual skills. Just think of a surgeon, how important his training is, especially if he has to experiment with a new technique or technology. Italy has always taught anatomy and medicine in the world. Anatomy and dissection, above all. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Vesalio, in 1500, came to Padua for his anatomy studies. Anatomy, philosophy and medicine were a whole, closely connected, but with different aims. For us doctors, anatomical knowledge is used to cure diseases, but for the philosopher it is used to know the origins of man. Unfortunately, although the practice of anatomical dissection is considered indispensable for all medicine, in Italy, in the last forty years, the practice of teaching on corpses has been largely neglected, if not abandoned, despite the efforts that scientific societies, universities and some centers have activated, with projects of donation and use of corpses. Unfortunately, however, there are very few of them. Most of our medical students complete the course of anatomy without ever seeing a corpse, with obvious cultural disadvantage compared to colleagues in Western countries. Young surgical residents see their opportunities for surgical training reduced, delaying their surgical preparation and completeness. Not least, complex surgical techniques, burdened with serious complications, requiring training, as well as new procedures, are applicable by an increasing number of professionals, with prejudice to the quality of care. To overcome these limits, our health care personnel, at least those who succeed, those who can, go abroad to take courses; or do them in Italy, with bodies or parts of them imported for a fee; or, they practice on animals. The reason is not only the almost absence of sensitivity on the subject and, therefore, the very low number of donations. Certainly there are social and cultural aspects. Certainly there are logistical problems related to financial support, but it is above all the lack of a national legislative profile that governs the path of donation for study and research purposes and the manifestation of consent by the donor until the time of death. In Italy it is possible to donate the corpse, but regional particularistic applications of the regulation of mortuary police generate a series of distortions that, often, are not even understood by the potential donor. The bill we are about to vote on fills this void. I am sure that it will improve the donation programmes, reduce the perplexities raised by the donation of the body and will be a means to facilitate the overcoming of cultural difficulties as well as logistical. A bill aimed at avoiding the sporadic nature of the donation, the occasionality of the donation, which destroys the training of young doctors and health professionals. Training and research are the parents of our health care, who provide to maintain high standards of health supply. Health that about two million women and men, constantly and tirelessly, guarantee through the National Health Service. I don't want to talk about costs or savings. Telling you that the spread of this practice could reduce the cost of education for health workers by about a quarter would be reductive for this bill. How much is a better trained staff worth? What about innovative research? How much less worth in the O.R.? How much is an extra life worth? How much is the joy of a researcher, who can explore the limits and carry out his research in Italy, without having to emigrate abroad? I could go on like this forever, but none of us can quantify these figures. One thing is certain: training and research create health and health is gross domestic product. I would like to conclude with two specific comments, the first of which is that there is no experimental animal model which is comparable to the human model. The human anatomy is unique and has an immense modernity of research and development, unlike the common opinion, which wants it static and already well explored, and adapts to the new availability and knowledge in the clinical and above all surgical field. Surely, having available a human model as a corpse donor, in many cases it will not be necessary to sacrifice an animal to do research. Maybe, in the near future, interactive programs will be available, which, through virtual reality, will offer valid alternatives to compensate for the lack of corpses or, even better, alternatives to the use of animals. That is the second point I would like to make. I talked about the many advantages of the bill at our examination, but I left last a consideration, which makes the use of the human body for educational-scientific purposes incomparable. I am sure that the many doctors and health workers in this House will understand exactly what I am saying. Dissection on a corpse represents a strong experience and unique emotional involvement. At first it frightens, but it affects theoretical and practical knowledge, facilitating learning, but also providing valuable elements for the personal elaboration of the event lived. I remember my first time in a sectional room: a group of students in silence - a particular silence, since we were not few - the sight, the air that you breathed, the contact with the lifeless body, all suspended between surprise, desire to learn and pain for that dead individual. We were thinking about his interrupted life, while the professor, who at first did not listen, explained the anatomy and retraced the disease and the causes of death. That remains an indelible memory, alive and constant, that promoted all ethical and existential aspects of the health profession, whose task is precisely to hinder death as much as possible and, when unavoidable, to make it less painful. To conclude, I would like to thank those who, until now, have donated their bodies and all those who will do so in the future, with a generous and civic gesture. I would also like to thank my colleagues for listening to me and for what all the speakers have said. I therefore vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Group and call on the entire Assembly to respond to the unanimous vote of the Commission. [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD, FdI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u28	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 733, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az, PD, FdI, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 122, 176, 697.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1, already approved by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies in the 17th legislature, referred to the Chambers by the President of the Republic on 27 October 2017, pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution. The rapporteur, Senator Grimani, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u30	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the majority groups who have allowed me to be rapporteur for this draft law. This measure has a distant genesis: it was presented in 2010, subsequently re-proposed in the last legislature and approved during it in 2017. The draft law No. 1, introducing measures to counter the financing of anti-personnel mines, munitions and cluster submunitions, is re-presented at the examination of the Senate Assembly after the examination carried out in the referent of the 6th Commission, following the referral to the Chambers by the President of the Republic with a reasoned message, which took place on 27 October 2017, for a new resolution pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution. Twenty years after the international convention that banned its use and sale, there are still 100 million devices scattered in the land of many countries. Two international treaties have regulated and addressed the issue of anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs: the Ottawa Convention, concluded on 3 December 1997 and ratified in Italy by Law No 106 of 1999, and the Oslo Convention on the Ban on Cluster Munitions, made in Dublin in 2008, entered into force in 2010 and ratified by our country with Law No 95 of 2011. In addition to these two important ratifications, our country had approved Law No 374 of 1997, on the rules for banning anti-personnel mines, referred to in many points of Law No 106 of 1999, of ratification of the Ottawa Convention. The spread of anti-personnel mines, explosions, injuries and civilian victims has not stopped; on 4 April each year a global day of awareness is celebrated through the analysis of the annual report published by the Landmine and cluster equipment monitor, which provides data in the framework of the international campaign on the ban on mines and the Cluster equipment coalition. The Landmine and cluster equipment monitor, which comes out every year since 1999, highlights a comprehensive overview of the use, production, trade and storage of mines, including information on contamination, injuries and assistance to victims. The positive aspect is that in 2016-2017 there were no accusations of the use of mines by States party to the Treaty on their ban. The biggest problem, however, remains the use by non-governmental groups and by those States which have not yet ratified the international treaty. It is clear that the use of these weapons is prohibited and that, therefore, with legal trade, availability has decreased, as this would constitute a violation of international law, but the outcome of the terrorist use made of them remains dramatic. The report highlights how the terrorist use aims to render the socio-economic scenario unservable. These are countries that live in agricultural activity, shepherding and for these inhabitants it could be lethal to reach the places of work; even the houses or electric generators are trapped to make them unservable, with the consequence that those who return to the houses and turn on the light blows up, because orders are placed that are triggered in this way. The 2017 monitoring showed that the main non-governmental groups using these weapons reside in Afghanistan, India, Iraq, Myanmar, Nigeria, Pakistan, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen. To quote the most bloody and present conflict in our daily reports, that is, the Syrian one, the numbers that arrive are dramatic: in northeastern Syria the number of people injured by mines, explosive traps and unexploded bombs doubled from 2017 to March 2018. Half of the victims are children who come into their homes with their families. In 2017 at least 910 children were killed and 361 mutilated in Syria. In early 2018 alone, 1,000 children were killed or injured. In summary, anti-personnel mines have been banned worldwide by the Ottawa Treaty, ratified by one hundred and thirty-eight countries including Italy, but more than 7,000 people have died 20 years later due to these devices, as reported in the Landmine Report of 2018. Our country is strongly involved in all the activities that concern the support to countries that have the problem of mines and those that have as their objective the universalization of the treaties. The Italian campaign against mines is strongly fought for the scenario designed and described to end and for, together with a thousand other organizations in all countries, indirect support to these weapons is also prohibited. That is why this text is of great importance and is based on the humanitarian principles underlying our Constitution and which, through international conventions, are adopted by the democratic countries of various parts of the world. The postponement of the draft law n. 57, approved in the last legislature on 3 October 2017, at the first signature of Senator Amati, which took place pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution, was motivated by a provision of the provision that, depriving of criminal importance the financing of the companies producing anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs by the subjects placed at the top position within the authorized intermediary bodies, would clearly contradict - and was at that time - the declared purposes of the same proposal of law approved by Parliament and with Article 117 of the Constitution, which obliges to exercise the legislative function in accordance with international obligations. In particular, the article 6, paragraph 2, of the bill, providing for the arsonous conduct of financing put in place by qualified persons an administrative punitive regime, would present profiles of constitutional illegitimacy. In particular, criminal sanctions are provided for in the Ottawa Convention in Articles 1 and 9 thereof. The most important aspect of the law is what in fact characterized the first draft law on the subject presented in 2010, namely the presence of a significant and concrete contribution aimed at highlighting the need to limit financial support to the producing companies, such as the law of ratification of the Oslo Convention (Law No 95 of 2001) expressly provides in Article 7. After this premise I move quickly to the discussion of the articles. The draft law under consideration consists of seven articles. Article 1 introduces a total prohibition on the financing of companies established in Italy or abroad which, directly or indirectly, carry out construction, production, development, assembly, repair, storage, use, use, storage, storage, promotion, sale, distribution, import, export, transfer or transport of anti-personnel mines, ammunition or cluster sub-munitions. Paragraph 3 indicates the foreclosure of companies referred to in paragraph 1 to participate in calls for tender or public funding programmes. Paragraph 4 extends those prohibitions to all authorised intermediaries. In particular, an amendment to the text has been proposed in order not to counter the demining and destruction of anti-personnel mines provided for in international conventions. A new paragraph 2 is proposed in which it is pointed out that the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 - i.e. the prohibition to which I referred earlier - do not apply to the activities expressly permitted by the two Conventions of Ottawa and Oslo, that is those aimed at the destruction of anti-personnel mines and more generally to the mine clearance and reclamation of the territories where they are present. Article 2 introduces all the definitions provided for in the article of law, specifying who are the authorized intermediaries (mobiliary brokerage companies, banks, savings management companies, SICAV, financial intermediaries, trusts, EU banks, non-EU banks, foreign exchange agents enrolled in the single role) and also introduces the definitions of financing, anti-personnel mines, mines, ammunition and sub-munitions clusters, supervisory bodies. Article 3 deals with the tasks of supervisory bodies. Article 4 highlights the tasks of intermediaries, who must publish within 90 days the list referred to in Article 3, i.e. those involved in the production of anti-personnel mines. Article 5 covers verification activities by the Bank of Italy, which may require news, documents and documents from intermediaries. Article 6, as amended, provides for the penalties provided for intermediaries qualified as legal persons; in this sense, there is a financial penalty from 150,000 to one and a half million euros, if the conditions are not fulfilled in accordance with Article 5 of Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001, or the responsibilities of the directors of companies. In paragraph 2, on the other hand, it provides for penalties for natural persons, i.e. persons carrying out administrative or management functions of authorised intermediaries. It is quite clear that the need to accept the message of the President of the Republic has been included here by introducing a new paragraph aimed at ensuring that unless the fact constitutes a crime, administrative sanctions remain; in the event that the fact constitutes a crime, there are the criminal penalties that are already provided for by the conventions that I have previously recalled. In conclusion, the article is presented to the Assembly in the awareness that Italy has been able to move from being one of the main countries producing and exporting mines to being one of the most committed countries on the humanitarian front. It is a unitary text of law which represents the completion of a journey in which unity of intent prevailed, which marked the commitment of the institutions, political representations and civil society. Special thanks go to the Finance Committee, which supported the measure by voting unanimously. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Bagnai.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u31	I declare the general discussion open. She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u32	Mr President, the draft law before us obviously supports us because it further limits the possibility of financing anti-personnel mines producers. At the basis of the draft law there are two important international conventions that Italy must take into account: the Ottawa Convention and the Oslo Convention. Both have an absolutely shared objective: to aim for disarmament, indicating it as an instrumental objective for the maintenance of peace. And together with the maintenance of peace, it is necessary to aim for greater international security and, above all, for the protection of international rights. The United Nations Charter itself places disarmament as a fundamental element in achieving international security and peace. And it is through an ever better discipline of the ways of producing arms and financing production that we can, step by step, but decisively, achieve the objective of protecting the rights of all individuals. I am talking about the rights of those who often do not have them, so the direction, in certain areas of the world, towards a more limited and conscious use of weapons is already a right in itself. We are talking here about anti-personnel mines and a bill which Parliament had already adopted by a large majority in the last parliamentary term. We're talking about devices that don't look anyone in the face, just because as they explode they strike at random, without even having to aim for someone or know whose face is about to blow up, whether it's that of a military, a civilian, a woman or a child. On that bill, however, now, the Senate has accepted the notes of President Mattarella who had sent him back to the Chambers. So today the text before us takes into account the need to take all kinds of measures, including criminal sanctions, in order to prevent or suppress the production and sale of anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. But not only that. It is now also forbidden to carry out any type of technological research aimed at the production of ammunition and cluster submunitions, of any kind. Therefore, the sanctions regime adopted by this draft law adapts to the Oslo Convention and in this way is able to combat in a more decisive way all types of financing of companies producing anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. In short, we who live in the very civilized West, we who for at least seventy years have built a continent in which peace reigns, must work through norms of civilization, to export at least that: our civilization. And we do so by reducing the risk of these particularly hateful weapons being produced and exported, often affecting unarmed victims. While we realize that, unfortunately, we have entered a century that has not treasured the conflicts and millions of deaths of the last century, we are still witnessing a mad arms race by many countries, many conflicts in many parts of the world, even geographically close to us. And, to conclude, if complete disarmament is still not possible today, you realize that this would really be an ideal world, these standards today at our examination, of absolute common sense, certainly see us in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u33	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in response. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, in announcing the vote in favour of the Senators of the LEU Group I would like to add a few words: this is an act due to bring to completion and final approval a draft law absolutely necessary, which had been approved in the last parliamentary term, here in the Senate in the deliberating session and then in the Chamber of Deputies, which was then the subject - as we all know - of some remarks of the President of the Republic. These are absolutely fundamental points, which at last the votes just concluded have ratified, especially if we take into account the fact that the bill contains measures to counter the financing - this is the fundamental aspect - of the companies producing anti-personnel mines, ammunition and cluster submunitions, in compliance not only with the Ottawa Convention, but also with that of Oslo, which explicitly provides for Article 7 (and hence also the appeal of the President of the Republic) the imprisonment from three to twelve years and the fine from EUR 258.28 to EUR 516.456 for those who provide financial assistance to those who employ, develop, produce, acquire in any way or transfer cluster munitions. The same penalties should also be applied in cases of use and sale, as provided for in the Ottawa Convention. Justly the President of the Republic, compared to the text that had been approved that did not include the criminal forecasts, drew attention to the obligations that derive from the international agreements ratified by Italy that explicitly require the imposition of criminal sanctions. These sanctions are absolutely fundamental, all the more so because we are dealing with the even more hateful part of the huge profit that is made - alas - by the production and trade of the weapons in question, prohibited by all these conventions, in conflicts, perhaps even the dirtiest ones, even those on which public attention is often not concentrated. Above all, the bill today at our examination, with the introduction of criminal forecasts, can give absolutely force to Article 1 that prohibits the financing of companies, in any legal form constituted, having headquarters in Italy or abroad, that are connected in any way, even through subsidiaries, to the activities of construction, use, storage and distribution. In the same way as Article 2 can finally give strength to the aims and possibilities of applying these rules. I believe that this is an important moment precisely because, through the changes we have introduced and on which the President of the Republic has drawn attention, we actually give strength to the fight against the financing of anti-personnel mines companies and we hope to have in hand a tool to counter the profit made on the lives of many people, especially of many children. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u39	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, with this speech I am announcing Brothers of Italy's vote in favour of the bill for our examination. However, I would like to enter into the substance: the measure today at our examination had - as has already been mentioned - a tormented process, having been approved to the Senate and the House in the XVII legislature, then postponed by the President of the Republic for raised constitutional legitimacy on the aspect of criminal sanctions and today arrives in the Chamber, therefore, as a legacy of the previous legislature. The title is effective and is clearly acceptable: Measures to counter the financing of anti-personnel mines, munitions and cluster sub-munitions. However, I must say - and I do so without controversy, having already said that we will vote in favour - that, beyond the effective and acceptable title, the articulated confusion and confusion and we would have liked it to be more linear and focused. However, we are convinced of the basic idea in a context such as the national one that sees the production of prohibited clusters. And they also tell us that the existing specimens have been destroyed. In Italy, fortunately, cluster munitions, their sub-parts and sub-munitions are no longer produced. I would like to remind you that our country in 2011 - although with a slight delay, it is true - ratified the Oslo Convention, which remains an inescapable reference point for cluster munitions. I would also like to mention - and this gives value to the measure - that some countries - I mention only a few - such as Brazil, India, China, South Korea and the United States still produce them and receive largely private funding for this purpose. I would like to remind you that, while in 2011, Italy ratified the Oslo Convention - fortunately - the Conference on the revision of the Convention on Convention on Conventional Weapons was held in Geneva. During that conference, in November 2011, there was a surreptitious attempt to amend the Oslo Convention, with the desire to re-introduce the so-called cluster bombs. I remember this to say that there is always a threat to what has been established. Fortunately - as has already been said - Italy no longer produces them and no one invests in them. In any case, it is good to counter any form of financing. Having said that, the article could have been more linear. We will vote in favour because the measure is against funding and we know what the bomb clusters are, which do not distinguish, when they strike, neither civilians nor military and leave behind unexploded material, which remains dangerous. We are talking, therefore, not about the romantically understood cluster as a star cluster, but, sadly and dramatically, about cluster bombs, cluster munitions, devices with submunitions, scattered at a distance, which are anti-personnel, anti-tank and mixed genre and are defined as weapons of saturation of the area because they cover large surfaces. In view of the enormous danger of this type of bomb, we will vote in favour of this measure, because the Brothers of Italy Group will always be on the humanitarian and human rights front. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u42	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, anti-personnel mines kill over 6,400 people a year. The Ottawa Treaty for the ban on anti-personnel mines, which entered into force in 1999, was signed by 80% of the world's countries, and the Oslo Convention, which entered into force in 2008, is signed by 119 nations. Yet, mines defigure, make blind, deaf, crippled, mutilated thousands of people living in war countries. Only in 2015 18 people were injured or killed a day, with a total of 6,460 victims. According to the report "Worldwide investments in clusters equipments: a shared responsibility" there are 151 financial institutions in the world that have invested from 2011 to 2014 about 27 billion dollars in companies producing cluster munitions. The report prepared by the association PAX, member of the Cluster equipment coalition, details the scope of investments in the companies producing cluster munitions by not only banks, but also pension funds and other financial institutions worldwide. The problem of unexploded mines and bombs is an issue of humanitarian emergency and civilization, since an unprecedented volume of anti-personnel mines and unexploded weapons contaminates rural areas and urban war zones, mutilating and killing innocent civilians, even long after the end of conflicts. The Head of State, on the occasion of the 13th World Day for Action against Anti-personnel Mines celebrated on April 4, 2018, stated: In the world thousands of people - civilians, and among them many children who have already suffered the tribulations of war and extreme poverty - continue to die, or suffer very serious impairments, due to anti-personnel mines, cluster bombs, unexploded war bombs. In those words, President Mattarella also called for Parliament's swift adoption of the relevant legislation. The law that the Senate of the Republic is preparing to vote today totally prohibits the financing of companies, in any legal form constituted, having headquarters in Italy or abroad, which, directly or using subsidiaries or associates according to the criteria of the civil code, carry out activities of construction, production, development, assembly, repair, storage, use, use, storage, storage, holding, promotion, sale, distribution, import, export, transfer or transport of anti-personnel mines, ammunition or cluster submunitions, of any nature or composition, or parts of them. Technological research, the manufacture, sale and disposal of any kind, export, import and holding of ammunition or cluster sub-munitions, of any kind or composition, or parts thereof, shall also be prohibited. The financing bans also apply to banks, SIMs, savings management companies, SICAVs, pension funds, bank foundations or in any case to all financial intermediaries. Companies carrying out the activities for which the financing ban is provided may not participate in public financing calls or programmes. The voting law complies with the provisions of the Oslo and Ottawa Conventions, ratified at the time by our country, which require criminal sanctions for all lenders of prohibited devices; a text of law that since its genesis, in the 16th legislature, has been structured with the fundamental contribution of the Italian Campaign against Mines, the cultural foundation Banca Etica and the Forum for Sustainable Finance. Italy has seen and sees civil society firmly committed to this issue, and this sensitivity has not been sterile: our country has passed from the sad primacy of Nation producer to Country in the front line to soothe the suffering caused by these devices. The law that the Senate starts voting, and that prohibits financial investments in international companies still involved in the manufacture of devices now banned from our country, represents a further important part in the efforts made to give Italy a positioning consistent with its vocation to international cooperation. This is a fair measure, for which we must also thank those, volunteers and associations, with great civil passion, who work in the most tormented places of the war to reopen the doors to a dignified future and hope. After a long iteration that lasted nine years, after the referral to the Chambers by the President of the Republic to correct the norms in full respect of the constitutional dictation and international agreements signed by our country, we are today faced with a good law, which, giving meaning and form to a political will for once shared, gives concreteness to some of the main values on which our civil coexistence is based, directly enshrined in our Constitution: peace and respect for the inviolable rights of man, starting from the value of life. It is a positive law, which sees the PD in the front line with its parliamentarians, that already in previous legislation have become protagonists of this text, that combines economy, sustainable finance, respect for man and the environment; an excellent law, that sees us consistent with the values it professes. The PD in fact has no different attitudes on the subject of weapons and consequently we are fully in favour of this law, just as we have been fully opposed to the text of the law on self-defense, which, among other things, has the possibility to hold a weapon more easily at home, to be used against any criminals. I say this in a clear and undisputed way: consistency is not a value that has strength only when it comes to corruption or alleged corruption; it is not a value that weighs only when it comes to security or supposed security. Coherence is a value that must permeate the political action of every Member of Parliament and of every political force. In the hope that as soon as possible the House of Deputies will be able to close the process of this important bill and thus arrive at the definition of legislation consistent with constitutional principles, in order to effectively counter the support for companies producing anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions, announcing with satisfaction and conviction the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u45	MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote in favour of this measure, which, moreover, has come to our examination with a broad and cross-cutting consensus, as is logical, given the noble ideals and proposals that inspire it. We recall that the act in question was sent back to the Chambers by the President of the Republic, with a reasoned message dated 27 October 2017, for a new resolution, pursuant to Article 74 of the Constitution. In particular, the Quirinale had drawn the attention of the Chambers to the provisions contained in article 6, columned Penalties, which in paragraph 2 deprived of criminal importance the operations of financing to companies producing anti-personnel mines and cluster bombs, if carried out by subjects that covered apical positions within the authorized intermediaries; matter, this, already governed by criminal rules including law n. 374 of 1997 and law n. 95 of 2011, adopted in implementation of international obligations, deriving from some international conventions that Italy has ratified and that expressly require the imposition of criminal sanctions in order to prevent and repress any activities prohibited by them. For this reason, in order to avoid the violation of Article 117 of the Constitution, on the basis of which the State and the Regions exercise legislative power in respect not only of the Constitution, but also of the constraints resulting from the Community law and international obligations, the Commission has made a number of amendments, aimed at removing the profiles of unconstitutionality detected by the Colle. To reflect on what might happen, beyond the noble intentions and principles that inspire this provision, the League would like to bring to your attention the practical consequences of such a resolution. However, anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions and submunitions respond to military functions that remain in the theatres of war and, therefore, the consequences may be different from those hoped for. Surely there will be a reduction in the production of these devices, but the persistence of the purpose to which these devices were addressed could have the indirect effect of subtracting market shares from a supply chain that, however, in Italy is subject to rigid control systems, which operates in a jurisdiction in which controls have a certain effectiveness and in which production is bound to a strict regulation. Probably moving this chain to countries with a weaker jurisdiction, with less effective and efficient controls, with a more backward technology, risks making our noble intent ineffective. All this, therefore, could make such devices even more dangerous and inhuman. A better solution, perhaps less idealistic or less noble in principles, but with concrete and more effective effects, it would have been to preserve the production chain in countries like ours, perhaps obliging to produce devices that can be deactivated at a distance, with auto-decommission over time, that make them less dangerous and less devastating from the point of view of what they can cause in human beings. The same is true of cluster bombs, which of course must be condemned, rather than banned, as regards their use against human beings. In part, the Commission wanted to take these aspects into account, specifying that in any case the prohibitions provided for in Article 1 do not apply to direct or indirect activities linked to the mine clearance and destruction of the devices removed from the theatres of war. Having said that, however, we stress our strong support and we announce our vote in favour of the initiative, fearing, however, that much of what we hope to achieve with this kind of measure will remain an illusion and that the practical effects are different from those hoped for. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u48	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Italy has been one of the main producers of anti-personnel mines and has therefore supplied the world market to a significant extent. In the 1980s we were producers together with the United States, the then Soviet Union, China, France and South Africa. In 1993 Italy fortunately decided to stop production. International agreements, such as the Geneva and Ottawa Conventions, prohibit the use of weapons that cause indiscriminate and unnecessary mutilation. Despite this, every year 5 to 10 million anti-personnel mines are manufactured in the world, which unfortunately are used, causing a number of victims still too high: 7,200 in 2017, 2,716 of which are affected by improvised devices. This is a record level, according to the Observatory's annual report on mines announced by the United Nations. The dramatic balance is due to the high number of victims in conflicting countries or where violence is endemic. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their attention, because I see that everyone is really interested. By the way, this is my first explanation of vote in this House, so for once a little attention would be required, not least because soon we will all be leaving quietly. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and Senator Steger Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u49	Make yourself at home, Senator Berardi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u50	Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Victims are distributed in 49 countries, but the vast majority are registered in Afghanistan and Syria. [[Brusio.]] Unfortunately, the subject is quite relevant: it may be that at this very moment someone, even a child, is dying because of a mine in some country. Sorry, colleagues, I didn't want to take anyone back. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I continue to say that the vast majority of the victims are civilians, who are in fact 87 percent of the total, of whom 47 percent are children, without considering those who are later injured, even seriously. The draft law that we are about to adopt today aims to extend the scope of action and control already defined by the Ottawa and Oslo Conventions, introducing the prohibition of financing and support to companies producing anti-personnel mines, ammunition and submunitions clusters by banks and other financial players. The measure - as has already been said by other colleagues - takes up the text of the bill already approved in the last legislature by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently returned to the Chambers by the President of the Republic because of the incompatibility of the sanctioning forecasts, in the absence of a criminal safeguard clause, with the international discipline referred to in the Conventions of Ottawa and Oslo. The President's remarks, which we always thank for his role as guarantor of our laws, have focused on the part of the text that only provides administrative sanctions for those who have apical roles or control of financial and banking institutions, in the event that they violate the prohibition of financing companies carrying out activities of storage, manufacture, use, transfer or transport of anti-personnel mines. However, I would like to stress - and I would like to say this - that this should not be the pretext for a condemnation of an entire sector, namely the arms industry, which in our country represents a productive segment of all respect. In Italy there are several hundred producing companies and they are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ a total of about 50,000 employees. As much as the war can be deplored - and I am indeed shouting this out loud - it is unfortunately a terrible and as possible eventuality. Armed defense is, therefore, a requirement inherent in every country; it is not a requirement, instead, to produce infernal mechanisms of self-destruction aimed at themselves, which endanger the people of today and that of tomorrow. The approval of this measure therefore represents for Italy a further and important piece of humanitarian disarmament, a field in which it has already proved constant and good results, which are the guide for other countries. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group, President, and I would like to stress with satisfaction that a bill of parliamentary initiative is being adopted, demonstrating Parliament's continued validity as an indispensable instrument of democracy. I conclude by drawing on an expression that John Paul II made at the summit against anti-personnel mines; he strongly said: This has to end! We all hope that this will be the right time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u53	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I read: I am Sabrai, I cannot read or write. I don't know anything about the war. I'm just a girl. My family and I are nomads. We move with our tents and sheep from one side of Afghanistan to the other. That's how we live. That day, we were in a place we already knew. We had been with our flock several times. I remember we were mounting our tent and there was a flowerbed, a tree next to flowers that I didn't remember seeing. It was spring, a beautiful season. I was walking right to that tree when I heard the explosion. I opened my eyes again and realized that my leg was gone. We were in the mountains, there was no one who could help us. No hospital. But I needed it at the time. I didn't have my leg anymore. My brothers, who were with me, took two pieces of wood, placed them on my shoulders and loaded me there, walking for three hours in the mountains to take me to the hospital. I'm just a girl. And now, even a burden for my family. But I think I was lucky. I could have been dead by now. I'm missing a pair of fingers and a leg, but I'm alive. Sabrai tells from the Emergency Surgery Center for War Victims in Kabul. Nasser, on the other hand, is fourteen years old and was wounded by the explosion of a mine while watching the family sheep with his uncle and cousin in the camps of Mafraq, Yemen. At the hospital of Doctors Without Borders, he suffered amputation of his right leg just below his knee. A few years ago, he had also lost his right thumb, hit by a bullet, so using crutches is also difficult for him. On March 2, 2013 in Novalesa, intent on planting potatoes in a field, 15-year-old Nicolas Marzolino finds a shell that, fatally, explodes in his hands, forcing him to remain without sight and without a hand. If in Italy, a country in peace for seventy years, the mines continue to mutilate, it is impressive and perhaps not quantifiable for how long the mines will kill and misuse entire generations in territories that still today are in situations of war conflict. Again, Aleksey, a 14-year-old Ukrainian, says: I picked up and pressed something and it exploded. There was so much blood, I could see my fingers dangling from my hand. I was so terrified that I shook like a leaf. I almost collapsed. These are some of the testimonies, we could read hundreds or thousands more. Perhaps in many of them, however, we should use the past as a verbal time. In 2017 alone the victims of mines officially established were 2793; stories that were, of people who today are not, simply for having walked a field to go for food or water, for having fed a flock, for having collected a flower or kicked what looked like a rock; stories that were of lives that did not have the right to live normality, because of the war or post-war regiments. According to the annual report of the Observatory on Mines, announced by the United Nations, the dramatic budget sees the victims distributed in 49 countries, including those in which the conflicts have ended but still remain vast areas under threat (Angola, Mozambique, Burma, Colombia, Azerbaijan or the border between Ethiopia and Eritrea) even if the majority are recorded in Afghanistan and Syria. The report reveals that 87 percent of the victims of these devices are civilians, and 47 percent of them are children. It is estimated that 100 million mines and unexploded devices are still scattered around the world. UNICEF notes that only in the Donbass Region, in eastern Ukraine, one of the most mines in the world, every day about 220,000 children are at risk because they live, play and go to school in areas where anti-personnel mines have been disseminated. In Afghanistan, according to UNMAS in 2016 alone, the confirmed victims of bombs - not counting therefore dead and injured unregistered - were 587. Doctors without frontiers announce that, according to Yemen's Mine Action Centre, 300,000 mines have been defused by the Yemeni army between 2016 and 2018. Demining, however, focuses on strategic roads and infrastructures, with little attention to civil areas and agricultural land, making the daily life of the highly insecure population. Those who come across an unexploded device, a mine, a cluster bomb and survives become part of a generation of mutilated, who will have to deal with the long-term impacts, in terms of human and economic costs, on the lives of individuals and on society as a whole. This evening, Parliament is called upon to express its views on the draft law which deals with measures to combat the financing of anti-personnel mines, munitions and cluster submunitions; a bill which arrives in this House after a long journey but which, as never before, is urgently needed. Following the referral to the Chambers by President Mattarella, the text was approved in the Commission with the adaptation of the legislation to the international conventions to which Italy has acceded and the provision, in article 6, paragraph 2, of the penal safeguard clause, in order to avoid unreasonable unequal treatment on the basis of the assignment held by the agent, and considering that the case provided for there is already regulated in the current law, in implementation of supranational obligations. The approval of this measure arises as a further, necessary, passage, of the path undertaken by Italy for the ban on anti-personnel mines. Our country, in fact, from one of the largest producers in the world of anti-personnel mines, has become a forerunner in their ban, already starting from the approval of law n. 374 of 1997, also thanks to the campaigns carried out by the Italian anti-mine movement. Italy's commitment continued with the signing of the Ottawa Convention, which provides for the prohibition of the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction, ratified by our country by the law of 26 March 1999, no. 106. Italy's participation in all stages of the Oslo process, which led to the ratification of the September 2011 Convention, which, in addition to banning the use, possession, production and transfer of cluster munitions, provides for a series of measures obliging States Parties to the elimination of unexploded ammunition. In this last respect, Italy has distinguished itself in the international field for its role of cooperation and assistance in the reclamation operations. The ideological and field-based contribution of NGOs, associations, non-profit organisations and other supranational bodies, such as UNICEF, Doctors without Borders, UNMAS, Emergency, the Italian Campaign against the Mine Onlus, is also remarkable. All this, however, is not enough today. Cleaning the world from mines doesn't just mean banning and reclamation. The devices are also fought upstream, contrasting their production. The contrast to the sources of financing, direct or indirect, arises as never before, in order to make concrete the measures envisaged in principle by international laws and conventions; to pull the plug to a business that goes against every ethical and moral principle, even before law. The inalienable rights of men, women and children, such as those of life, safety, play, health and living in a healthy environment, protected by our Constitution and supranational legislation, must be absolutely priority over economic or financial interests. So-called sustainable finance, an ethical finance, cannot fail to take account of human rights, the environment, animal rights, the self-determination of peoples, the right to a peaceful life of children and adults, in war and post-war contexts. And a Parliament that wants to look to the future and wants to say respect for human rights and humanitarian law can only vote in favour of the bill that is under discussion tonight. A Parliament that wants to call itself democratic can only adopt a law that protects the right to life and supports this struggle that cannot and must not have political colors. I would like to thank all those who have worked for this measure in the last parliamentary term and the Finance Committee which has done so this year. In this House, as a member of the majority of this Parliament and as a representative of the 5 Star Movement in the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, it is with great pride that I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, with the hope that it will be only one of the steps towards real international peace, respecting human rights and the duties of solidarity. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u54	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B) [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u55	The next item is the debate on draft law No 961. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u56	Mr President, this ratification concerns the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO), an international peacekeeping organisation between Egypt and Israel. This organization derives from the Camp David peace agreements of September 1978 and the subsequent bilateral treaty, signed in March 1979, in Washington. Displaced in the Sinai Peninsula from April 25, 1982, the MFO has since been called to carry out peacekeeping activities in the Sinai Peninsula. The general management of this organization is located in Rome, as well as having representative offices in Egypt and Israel. There are 12 countries that participate, which also contribute financially to the performance of the mission with their own quotas, in order to observe, verify and report any violation of the peace treaty mentioned above. I would like to emphasize in particular that Italy participates to the mission with a contingent of the military navy, called Coastal patrol unit, that it is the only naval force of the MFO and to this contingent has been entrusted the task to verify the freedom of navigation in the Strait of Tiran, that it joins the Gulf of Aqaba to the Red Sea and the zones contiguous to the same Strait. Italy is also the fourth contributing country in terms of personnel employed and in the general structure of the city of Rome it has intended to grant the modification of the Original Headquarters Agreement to update the contents to the evolution that has been in the meantime on the ground, on the occasion of the worsening security conditions in the region of Sinai. In particular, the exchange of notes of June 2017 between Italy and MFO tends to amend the 1982 Headquarters Agreement to increase up to 14 the maximum number of officials present in Rome's headquarters, to which extend immunity and privileges, granted under the Agreement, with the exclusion of those with Italian nationality. The bill of ratification consists of four articles and the economic charges are valued in a total of 42,000 euros per year. Since there are no profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law or other international obligations entered into by our country, it is proposed that the bill be approved by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u57	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u60	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the ratification and execution presented by the rapporteur. In fact, this is a measure that we have been discussing for some time, because it had already been examined in the previous legislature: it had been approved in the Senate, then the House had been modified and therefore it had been approved again in the Senate in the Commission, but there had been no material time to be able to approve it definitively, since the legislature had ended. So we have taken it back and we support it as strongly as we have done in the last parliamentary term. As has been said, it is in fact an authorization to increase the number of officials who can participate in the mission which, as has been said, is based in Rome. This mission was born far in time, after Camp David's agreements. In fact, it begins between the end of 1981 and the beginning of 1982, and therefore moves in a scenario that was then completely different from the current one: it was the end of the clashes between Egypt and Israel and, on the basis of a peace agreement signed between the two nations, it had asked the international organizations to have a force to manage peacekeeping, so that it would monitor possible violations of the signed peace agreements. After many years that conflict situation has fortunately faded and subsided, but unfortunately no other elements of insecurity have diminished; indeed, with the affirmation of ISIS (which has now been defeated in its territorial dimension but, as recent attacks in Sri Lanka show, unfortunately it is not at all defeated in its possibility to create death and destruction in the world), the Sinai area has become particularly dangerous: many attacks in Sinai have been made, especially against Egyptian military objectives but also in general. Therefore, the call to the international community was to maintain this mission that was born in another context, because unfortunately in the area the elements of danger to international security continue to persist. We participate with the units of the Navy and we are the only country that participates with a naval order, therefore we have a very important role, that we carry on for a long time and of which we are recognized the extreme positivity and the extreme professionalism of our military. Recalling our vote in favour, I therefore take the opportunity to send a thank you from the Senate Assembly to all our military engaged in international missions and in particular to those engaged in the MFO. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups and Senator Petrocelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u63	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have spoken before me because they reject me from taking a thorough look at the measure in question. From a financial point of view, however, I would like to mention one very important aspect, namely the fact that operating costs are mainly shared between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the State of Israel and the United States of America, but other countries participate economically in the enterprise such as Donor State, although they do not provide for the sending of men in most cases. The MFO, as has been mentioned, is entrusted with peacekeeping tasks, as well as ensuring respect for the peace treaty between Egypt and Israel, observing and reporting any violation of the peacekeeping treaty. To our contingent, called Coastal patrol unit (CPU), is asked the task of patrolling the Strait of Tiran, only connection between the Gulf of Aqaba and the Red Sea, and therefore assure the free navigation and transit in the Strait in order to guarantee the freedom of navigation, patrol the area of responsibility, observe the marine traffic and the military vehicles, signaling any unlawful behaviour that involves the violation of Article 5 of the Treaty of peace between Egypt and Israel. Our units are asked to guarantee a patrol of 50%, i.e. six months out of twelve, of which 30% in the night. The CPU complies with what is required through operational preparation cycles that see on average the three Italian units alternate at sea for five days out of seven throughout the year, also providing support to the local authorities in the search and rescue operations at sea and protection in the marine field. Italy is the fourth contributing country in terms of men and the current maximum expected contribution is 75 military and three naval vehicles. The exchange of notes covered by this ratification does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, Community law and other international obligations entered into by our country. Moreover, the cost of this ratification is low: EUR 42,000. Also here and on this occasion we wish the members of these units good work and extend the same wish to all our military engaged in peacekeeping operations, clearly declaring the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u66	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have described the Multinational Force and Observers mission in detail, so I will not repeat what has already been said. For more than forty years it has been intended to observe, verify and report any violation of the Treaty of Peace between Egypt and Israel, and continues in its work also by virtue of geopolitical change and the appearance of subjects such as ISIS. We can ask ourselves why it is still necessary to check and be present in an area with an intense mission of peacekeeping, carried out, as my colleague Aimi recalled, from twelve countries and from Italy, who does a great job on the Strait of Tiran, which is a fundamental area. If it is still necessary to control the territory with such a large mission of peacekeeping it is because this area is considered at high risk of conflicts, indeed constant witness of conflicts. If you will allow me to leave the specific of this Agreement for a moment, I would say that in our opinion we need the same effective operation to take place in the same way among other neighbouring countries, and undoubtedly the thought goes to the eternal conflict between Palestine and Israel, whose solution necessarily passes through the international recognition of the State of Palestine and the status of neutrality for Jerusalem. I therefore announce the vote in favour of this bill of ratification wishing me other ratifications of agreements for a firm and lasting peace with a maximum and determined commitment of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u67	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u68	The next item is the debate on draft law No 962. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u69	Mr President, this is a memorandum between Italy and the Council of Europe on the Venice Office, which aims to give the administrative unit, which has already been working informally in Venice since 2011, the international legal status of the Office of the Council of Europe. The Memorandum of Understanding proposed by the Secretariat of the Council of Europe already in 2014, composed of 30 paragraphs, was negotiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the active support of the Municipality of Venice and the Veneto Region; an example of multilevel collaboration. The text establishes the Venice Office in order to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the Southern Mediterranean. It also promotes the types of staff to which the Office will be endowed, the exercise of the legal capacity of the Council of Europe and establishes that the Office will be financed with resources from the Council of Europe's ordinary budget and extra-budgetary resources for the implementation of cooperation programmes. The economic charges are valued overall in the order of 40,000 euros per year and not presenting profiles of incompatibility neither with the national legislation, nor with the European Union's legal order, nor with other international obligations signed by our country, it is proposed the approval of the bill by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u70	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u73	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of the vote that we are about to express and the hope that the other branch of Parliament will soon do so because we are in a paradoxical situation: there is an Office which works particularly well, which has built up a prestige also in the world, providing very important legal contributions, and I remember that our entire delegation of the Council of Europe has been called for in recent weeks for ratification. It is very important for the Senate to do it this evening and it is very important for it to come to fruition. However, I take advantage of my explanation of vote in order to remind the House that the immediate consequence of the vote on the ratification of the Office is the vote on the measure concerning the Faro Convention, on which the Office has worked in recent years positively, even if we have not understood in which way it has been lost. We believe that by voting today together for ratification in our examination, we can also do the same for the other measure, find a solution and have our role and our dignity in the world and in Europe, as it is our responsibility as founders of the Council of Europe and as a country that represents a real cultural superpower. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u76	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding is intended to give the already informally operational unit in Venice the international legal status of the Office of the Council of Europe. The city and its lagoon, we know, are the world heritage of humanity, the meeting point of cultures, peoples and civilizations. Therefore, Venice's commitment to dialogue and exchange between countries and communities has always been proven and known. The Venice Office favours activities on issues relevant to both the Council of Europe and the city. The Office has signed important agreements with existing academic centers on the territory; to name a few, a cooperation agreement at local level with Venice international university, for study and research activities in the field of globalisation; with the European inter-university centre of human rights and democratization, for initiatives to study and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and with Ca' Foscari University in the field of human rights, democracy, culture and cultural heritage. The cost of this operation is 40,000 euros: very low, as President Petrocelli said. Therefore, also on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, the vote in favour of the measure is announced. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u79	VANIN (M5S). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, we shall vote on this draft law, which aims to ratify and implement the Memorandum of Understanding between the Italian Republic and the Council of Europe on the formal establishment of a Council of Europe Office in Venice and its legal status, with the deep conviction that it is important and important for the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights. The conclusion of this Memorandum of Understanding for the establishment of a peripheral office of the Council of Europe in Venice, made in Strasbourg on 14 June 2017, stems from the will of the Council of Europe in 2014 and is the result of a negotiation and a sharing at all institutional levels that sees the involvement, in addition to the competent Ministry, also of the Municipality of Venice and the Veneto Region. It is worth remembering that Italy, which joined the Council of Europe on 5 May 1945, is one of the founders of what is the main organization for the defence of human rights of the European continent, which now consists of 47 countries. These are elements which set out above in favour of the importance of the political choice that we are prepared to make with the adoption of this measure. The 5 Star Movement strongly wanted to resume the parliamentary process of this important legislative initiative which, at the end of the previous parliamentary term, risked not reaching approval. The Memorandum aims first of all to give the unit, already informally operating in Venice since 2011, the international legal status of the Office of the Council of Europe, already present in many other European States, thus establishing a new institutional form of cooperation. This Office will be dedicated to the management of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation activities in the fields of human rights, democracy, the rule of law and international cooperation: activities promoted by the Council of Europe, including in synergy with European Union initiatives and in order to strengthen concrete actions on the ground. These activities are therefore of crucial importance, aimed at contributing to the formation of a well-defined European cultural identity, based on shared values, which transcend the cultural diversity of the various Member States. The basic objective, the illuminating lighthouse of these shared policies, is the search for solutions to social problems throughout Europe, in the name of peace. Let us also remember that in all this context only the effectiveness of justice represents the effective implementation of every rule of law: therefore, in this field too, actions must be more precise and concrete. The purpose of the establishment of a peripheral office of the Council of Europe is to represent the Secretary-General vis-à-vis the national authorities with regard to all institutional purposes assigned to the Office and to conduct active communication policies aimed at increasing the visibility of the organisation itself, its values and its activities among the public. But there is more to be noted. Today, by voting on this measure, we collect and maintain the commitment made to look at the city of Venice as a different city, compared to the image that superficial and unholy policies reduce to mere tourist cities, in contempt of what is actually an invaluable cultural heritage. Venice and its entire lagoon, are the world heritage of humanity and it is known the commitment of the city at all times, as a place of encounter and exchange of cultures, peoples and civilizations, of intercultural integration and respect for human and civil rights. That is why we reaffirm with absolute conviction the importance of the establishment of the peripheral office of the Council of Europe in Venice as a concrete and tangible sign of an action to protect also the cultural and artistic heritage of the nation. That is why the 5 Star Movement will vote in favour of the establishment of the Office of the Council of Europe in Venice and the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Italian Republic and the Council of Europe. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u80	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u81	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1103, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Iwobi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u82	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, on the ratification of the Transactive Agreement of November 2009 between Italy and the European Atomic Energy Community - also known with the acronyms of Euratom or Euratom - on the principles governing the responsibilities for the management of radioactive waste on the site of the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in Ispra, in the province of Varese. It is recalled that the Ispra structure is one of the four research centres set up by the then European Community following the 1957 Euratom Treaty to promote the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes in the Member States. To date, in the structure - established in 1959 as well as conventional research activities remain operational, with regard to the nuclear field, the activities relating to nuclear safeguards, and those relating to the management of radioactive waste and the safe conservation of nuclear installations. The Transactive Agreement is necessary for the closure of a dispute between the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) and Italy on the recognition of Italy's historical responsibilities with regard to the dismantling of the Joint Research Centre in Ispra. It is recalled that in 1999 the European Commission decided to start the decommissioning and decommissioning programme for nuclear research centres, including Ispra. Given that in the period between the sixties and the eighties the JRC was used by means of specific contracts by Italian entities (ENEA, CISE, Enel) for research projects related to the Italian nuclear programme, the Commission requested Italian participation in decommissioning and decommissioning activities. Since it is not possible - given the time elapsed and the fact that the contractual arrangements of the time did not provide for clauses for future dismantling activities, then not planned - to carry out an analytical determination of the Italian competence charges, it was decided by common agreement between the parties to conclude a transactive agreement. The agreement under consideration is based not on an economic consideration but on the implementation by Italy of some of the work on decommissioning and decommissioning of the Ispra 1 reactor in the JRC, providing in particular that Italy will be responsible for some of the activities, mainly consisting of the dismantling of the reactor and the disposal of its waste, which is quite similar to those relating to the Italian nuclear sites abandoned, currently carried out by Sogin SpA. In the technical report accompanying the measure is reported the estimate of the burdens deriving from the implementation of the Agreement, carried out by the technical table established by the Ministry of Economic Development at the time of the signing of the Agreement in 2009, valued in total 45 million euros. To this figure, however, the same report adds the costs incurred by the JRC for the passive custody activities of the plant, estimated at about EUR 5 million. Finally, Mr President, it should be pointed out that the Agreement does not present any aspects of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u83	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u86	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, the settlement agreement is finally ratified by our country. It concerns a subject on which, especially in my own territory, a response has long been expected. The JRC is located in Ispra, in the province of Varese and we have long been waiting for the news of ratification. It is certainly not enough, because this ratification merely transposes the Transactive Agreement by which we take note of a long process, as long is the decommissioning involving the Ispra 1 reactor, as the rapporteur recalled. However, it takes a second act, which this Government must take forward, which is finally the definition of the national deposit. Today, nuclear waste is still divided into 20 different deposits and we need a national repository in order to be able to proceed and not to incur a European infringement procedure. The other Ispra, the Institute for the Protection of the Environment, has already given its opinion on the CNAPI, the National Charter for potentially suitable areas. The Nuclear Safety and Radiation Inspectorate (ISIN), which is the new seismic risk study agency, also gave its opinion indicating some corrections. We are now there and it is necessary, so that this Transactive Agreement and our ratification have a meaning, that we finally find the national deposit; otherwise all this has no meaning, it does not make sense and it does not solve a problem expected for a long time, that twenty territories in Italy can finally see the nuclear waste placed in a place dedicated to them, with all the safety standards and high quality standards, that not only Europe, but also our country requires. So let us certainly take a step forward with the Transactive Agreement and with the EUR 50 million that was allocated in the last budget law of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, which serves to finally dismantle the Ispra 1 reactor; but then decommissioning and nuclear waste must have a place to go. The European Union puts money into transport; the Italian Government finally has the task of deciding where to place waste, putting an end to this story. We know very well that this is a sensitive and sensitive topic and that we need a path of involvement and confrontation also with the local communities present in the place where this deposit will be put, clearly with all the security conditions and quality standards. That is why we will certainly vote in favour, as a Democratic Party, of the ratification of the Transactive Agreement, but together we call for this Government to act quickly in identifying the national deposit for the disposal of nuclear waste. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u89	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, this is obviously an extremely sensitive issue. I would like to remind you that Italy is participating in this technical programme for the decommissioning of obsolete nuclear installations and of course also in the management of radioactive waste and nuclear fuel from past research activities. In essence, the transactive agreement of this Agreement provides for the dismantling of the reactor present in the Ispra centre and its waste, which is quite similar to those relating to the Italian nuclear sites already abandoned. However, we want to highlight - this is the right place - some critical issues of this measure, which are mainly related to the coverage of the financial charges of this Agreement, which is financed with the increase of the tariff component A2. The government has stated that it should not concern housing utilities; even if it is true, unfortunately it will increase costs. We will then have bills for all subjects who do not own a domestic user. It is about 50 million euros of charges to cover; therefore many subjects that for various reasons do not have domestic users will see to increase the bill. It will be paid by craftsmen, traders, freelancers, but also many houses that for various reasons (for example those that use 400 volts utilities) have contracts different from that for residential use. We therefore strongly urge the Government to commit itself to finding, within the framework of the state budget, another type of financial cover for the burdens of this ratification. These are charges which, moreover, go back to a dispute that has been dragging for thirty years and which, in any case, protect us from higher charges that would result from the non-ratification of the Agreement and from a further litigation. But these are the burdens that we must avoid making certain categories of production pay, which are, moreover, blameless of the energy policy choices made by the various Italian governments and at European level. So it would be better to put them in charge of general taxation. In any case, beyond the invitation and this very modest suggestion, which I think is extremely important, we agree on the content of the ratification and therefore, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I announce the vote in favour of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u92	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, the draft law we are about to vote on ratifying, as has already been said, the Transactive Agreement between Italy and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) and is designed to regulate the responsibilities and procedures for the management of radioactive waste at the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in Ispra, in the province of Varese. This site, as is well known, was one of the four research centres set up by an Agreement between the Italian Government and Euratom to promote the development of nuclear energy in the Member States for peaceful purposes, providing for the temporary granting of the area to the European Community. In the light of the changing nuclear strategic guidelines of our country and the inevitable reduction in the Centre's activities, together with the inclusion of Ispra in the plan for the dismantling of nuclear research centres launched by the European Commission in 1999, the problem arose of identifying the responsibilities and responsibilities necessary for the effective decommissioning of the site. The European Commission, as you know, asked for Italian participation in these activities, also in view of the fact that in the period between the sixties and the eighties, the research centre in question had been used by Italian subjects, such as ENEA, Enel and CISE, for projects conceived under the Italian nuclear programme. Unfortunately, the agreements of the time did not include in any way the eventuality of a cessation of the activities, therefore it was not possible to carry out an analytical determination of the burdens of Italian competence. It is precisely with the Transactive Agreement that it was intended to put an end to the dispute arising on the substance between our country and Euratom, fully identifying the technical modalities, the burdens and the timing of carrying out the program of dismantling the site, to be completed by 2028 with - as it is written - the contribution of the nuclear waste present at the JRC's Ispra site to the Italian National Deposit. The Agreement, signed in 2009 by the then Minister of Economic Development Claudio Scajola, perhaps in too much haste, ended up burdening the Italian State with the final management of the nuclear waste of the site, not weighing up the delays already accumulated and the inability already demonstrated by our country on the front of the decommissioning just mentioned, that is, the process of dismantling and putting in safety of the plants and waste resulting from the experience made by our country in the use of nuclear. In fact, we are still lacking the famous national storage facility which should have and should have accepted these waste, which is now being added to those of the Ispra Centre. These are delays, of course, due to the action and inaction of the governments that preceded us. A more prudent and forward-looking policy should have at least, when we sign the agreement that we are about to ratify, taken into account these difficulties of ours and tried to get Euratom to bear the final waste management of the Ispra Centre and its costs. It is with these reservations that we take charge, however, of the solution of the dispute, for the respect that we have always had and want to continue to have for the international agreements and commitments signed by our country. This is why - and only for this reason - I support the 5 Star Movement for the ratification of the Transactive Agreement between the Italian Republic and Euratom for the management of radioactive waste at the Ispra Centre. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u93	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u94	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1104, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u95	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Members, on the ratification of the Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement signed in December 2016 between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Cuba, of the other part. The text, the entry into force of which is subject to ratification by all the Member States of the European Union, has already been in force provisionally since 1 November 2017 for the parties within the competence of the European Union and is intended to promote relations between the European Union and Cuba, also in view of the strong historical, economic and cultural links between the parties, in order to encourage the process of transition towards pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as to facilitate the improvement of the living conditions of the Cuban people by providing for the intensification of political dialogue, humanitarian aid and targeted economic cooperation actions in support of the implementation of economic openness. This Agreement provides the basis for joint action on international issues and multilateral fora and sets out the general principles and objectives of relations between the European Union and Cuba, providing for an institutional structure for its management. The text consists of 89 articles, divided into five parts. Part I relates to the general provisions, principles and objectives of the Agreement; Part II relates to political dialogue, indicating its objectives and establishing the range of common policy areas which will form the subject of political dialogue, including human rights, illegal trade in arms, disarmament, the fight against terrorism, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants. Part III, devoted to sectoral strategic cooperation and dialogue, and Part IV (Articles 60 to 80), on trade and trade cooperation, with a view in particular to strengthening economic and trade relations, promoting Cuba's integration into the world economy, strengthening the contribution of sustainable trade and supporting the diversification of the Cuban economy, in a climate of improvement for investment. The draft law ratifying this Agreement consists of four articles. Article 3, which contains a clause of financial invariance, shows that the implementation of the measure should not result in new or higher burdens on public finance. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u96	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u99	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, just a few words to vote in favour of the Democratic Party Group's agreement on political dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Republic of Cuba. It is a classic scheme that the European Union adopts vis-à-vis the non-EU countries that work: it is the so-called framework, that same framework that would have been useful to adopt vis-à-vis China, which defines the principles and values of reference, the areas of activity and all the matter relating to the management of migratory flows, the fight against international terrorism and the illegal trade in arms, for example, and the issue of the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. More generally, this is a framework agreement, within which individual European countries can strengthen their bilateral cooperation with Cuba. As I said, we would have liked the same pattern to be followed with China as well. Having Europe behind us gives us more strength because it clearly tells us what the principles and values we defend and what the rules are, for example, in the labour market that we want to defend. I am referring, for example, to the protection of intellectual property. We have missed an opportunity with China; at least with the countries of Latin America and Cuba we do not miss this opportunity. So, well the Agreement that was signed at the time of the Renzi Government, which we ratify today, which is why the Democratic Party can only agree and announces its vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u102	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, our liberal political culture requires us to think carefully about this ratification. I would like to point out that our vote will be in favour, but I want to explain why. As you can understand, we are stellarly far from real communist or social-communist positions, also because the Cuban regime has kept its people in absolute misery for decades and, in addition to material deprivation, we must remember the persecutions that have occurred in that country, of a religious order, as well as the political repressions that have claimed thousands of victims. However, today's Cuba is still looking for its own dimension and it is not right that it should be penalised by the international community. From the point of view of foreign policy, however, it has not yet chosen the right place, as South America still supports Maduro in Venezuela and Ortega in Nicaragua. The agreement before us, which Cuba has signed with the European Union, also deserves an opening of credit from Italy - and from us, of course - because in this way we can help Cuba which wants to change from the past in order to support change. Moreover, in the Agreement between the European Union and the Cuban Government, very important commitments on human rights and freedoms are written in black and white. There is even a commitment to controlling arms trafficking, which seems to us to be an extremely important point. We still like to recall some passages in Title II of the Agreement, which deals with democracy, human rights and good governance, where it is written: The Parties agree to cooperate to strengthen democracy and its capacity to apply the principles and practices of democracy and human rights, including the rights of minorities. Yes, minority rights are an absolute novelty for Cuba. Again, in Article 23, entitled 'Good Government', paragraph 2 reads: (a) ensuring respect for the rule of law; (b) promote transparent, responsible, efficient, stable and democratic institutions; (c) exchange experience and capacity building with regard to legal matters and judicial capacity; (d) exchange information on legal systems and legislation; (e) promote the exchange of best practices on good governance, accountability and transparent management at all levels; (f) cooperate in favour of more inclusive political processes that allow the effective participation of all citizens. That's right: we are talking about the effective participation of all citizens. This is the main reason why we are voting in favour, although we understand all the problems that can arise and which I briefly listed at the beginning of my speech. For this reason, as Forza Italia Group we will express our consent to the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u105	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Agreement, whose ratification we are called to vote on today, was signed in Brussels one month after the US election of Trump, however, in the wake of the new phase of opening up reports by President Obama. In the following years, the political balances in the world have changed. In Cuba itself Miguel Diaz-Canel was elected president, undoubtedly of Castrist faith, having grown politically with Presidents Castro, but relatively young, born after the revolution. Diaz-Canel, even in the tradition and social orthodoxy of his predecessors, seems - albeit with extreme caution - to want to create an innovative political course. A policy of progressive openings without tears, just to avoid upheavals that probably fear not being able to govern. It would be annoying for me to point out to you that changes of regime, in order to be effective and beneficial, must always rely on reforms, because they are difficult to assert through revolutions. European foreign policy has been supporting this for decades. Indeed, when some individual states imposed a different and more radical view, the whole world has had the negative consequences. In this agreement I see the synthesis of European values. An agreement that basically concerns principles of democracy and economic direction, able to breathe in the asphyxiary Cuban economy that, after the Venezuelan crisis, appears even more in difficulty. It is a common interest to have a credible partner, respectful of human rights, open to more affordable forms of market for individual citizens. It is a bet that Italy and the European Union must face, in order to be in a future, I hope next, privileged partner of a country that is inevitably preparing to change. Today we are preparing to vote for the ratification of an agreement which, because of its complexity, can be called all-embracing. On the one hand, it points to the strengthening and enlargement of human rights. On the other hand, it tries to facilitate the Cuban economic system, also inviting the Caribbean country to diversify production and to remove all technical obstacles. Therefore, for all these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars announces the vote in favour of bill 1104. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u106	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u109	Parent (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak for a few minutes to remind you that Antonio Gramsci, who was seriously ill, died on 27 April 1937, after eleven years of imprisonment. Eighty-two years after my death, Saturday I had the honour of representing my Group and the Democratic Party to pay homage to his grave. Gramsci was arrested by the fascist regime in 1926. What has always impressed me with his biography is the phrase that the prosecutor Isgrò uttered during the requirement of the trial: for twenty years we must prevent this brain from working. And in fact, they sentenced him to twenty years, four months, and five days. He doesn't get there, because he died after 11 years. To retrace the life of Gramsci, Mr President, colleagues, is to keep alive the history of our country and the knowledge of the past, especially in these days, when we celebrated 25 April, our national feast, which marked, in 1945, the end of the German occupation, the end of the fascist regime, the end of the Second World War and the beginning of our republican history of democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On this historical reconstruction you cannot divide yourself as it has happened also in these days. Of course, you can have different political ideas. You may not adhere to the thought of Gramsci. But just read the letters Gramsci wrote from prison to his family to be aware of where the discrimination between dictatorship and obscurantism lies, on the one hand, and freedom and democracy on the other. Not surprisingly, Benedetto Croce defined the Epistolary as the book that belongs also to those of the other opposite political party. So history is our common good. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I close, recalling a sentence of Gramsci, always taken from his epistolary, addressed to his son, between a story of elephants and parrots, because he also denied the right to know his children. Gramsci writes, addressing his son: "I think that you like history, as I liked it, when I was your age, because it concerns living men and all that concerns men, (...) because they unite with each other in society and work and fight and improve themselves cannot but like you, Delio, more than anything else." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that knowing history and being aware of it means rediscovering ourselves, our Italy, our Europe and the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u112	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, it has been a few weeks since 27 March, the day of the definitive adoption of citizenship income, a very important measure to combat poverty for Movimento 5 Stars and one of our polar stars. We are continuing on the right path to reduce inequalities and, from this point of view, the next steps of the 5 Star Movement will be taken towards taxation on bills, excise duties and VAT. This is a subject that we are hearing very strongly, even in the Commission. In Italy, according to data from Istat, there are almost 9 million people living in a situation of energy poverty and struggling to pay their bills. I would like to point out a case that happened in Rimini, the Province from which I come, in which many families have found themselves in difficulty paying very high gas bills, certainly because of the increase in taxation. In a few days a social group has created a network of about 10,000 Riminesi, who have protested against this increase. The group is called Drunks of Gas. Maybe the name is nice, but in reality behind there is a willingness to dialogue, towards the local manager, very serious and very careful. This is a serious problem, on which they are asking for answers to the Government and Parliament. I would therefore like to appeal to my colleagues and to the Government, in order to continue vigorously in this direction, in the action in support of Italian families. This is an action that the Government is already approaching in many measures. So we have already taken a few steps in this direction and we hope to proceed with listening to these families. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u115	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, on 29 April 1975 he was attacked in Milan by the militants of Avanguardia lavoratoria, Sergio Ramelli, who was seventeen years old and was a militant of the Youth Front, the youth organization of the Italian Social Movement. He was attacked with a wrench outside his school, violently: his skull was smashed and died after an agony lasted from 13 March to 29 April. He was killed because he believed, with his youthful enthusiasm, in an idea. He was killed in a vile ambush, in an assault and not during street clashes, as some newspaper headlines dared to write, distorting reality. It was an ambush to a boy, who was untiring the chain of his scooter to get home from school. These are days of tension in Milan and I would say intimidation. At the same time, at 8 p.m., while we are in the Chamber to remember Sergio Ramelli, a silent procession of commemoration was to be held, which was forbidden: only a 100-metre route was granted and everything else was forbidden, with the intervention of the prefecture. Instead, it has been authorized, by the same prefecture, an appointment, a garrison, of so-called anti-fascist groups at a short distance. But that's not what I want to talk about. I want to say, however, that even today, on some social media, posts have been published that incite hatred, violence with the indication #key English, #Ramelli #Hazet36, from the name of the wrench that hit and killed Sergio Ramelli. We want to say that this atmosphere of hatred, which after 44 years continues to breathe towards the vile assassination of Sergio Ramelli, is an outrage to his memory, to the memory of a teenager brutally killed because he believed. To those who have this obsession with hatred and who have so much nostalgia for the horrible years of lead, we respond that we have only the obsession not to forget who fell for the idea, for the love for Italy and that we will continue to fight in his name and in his memory. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u118	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I agree with the memory of Antonio Gramsci, a great intellectual, a great Italian and a great anti-fascist. There was more time, there would be important words to spend. I shall now turn to my speech on a very serious matter, which I believe should be brought to the attention of Parliament. On April 16, Palermo's prosecutor issued a warrant to capture Marco Zappalà, lieutenant colonel in service to the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate of Caltanissetta, and Giuseppe Barcelona, policeman of Castelvetrano company, birthplace of the Mafia boss and superlatant Matteo Messina Money. The two were arrested on charges of outside competition in Mafia association and abusive access to the computer system. Together with them, the former mayor of Castelvetrano, Antonio Vaccarino, has also been arrested for drug trafficking. According to the magistrates, the Carabiniere Barcelona, in charge of transcribing the intercepts arranged in the context of the capture of the fugitive boss Matteo Messina Money, would pass to Lieutenant Colonel Zappalà the contents of a conversation report between two suspects in which reference was made to dynamics inside the Mafia family of Castelvetrano. Lieutenant Colonel Zappalà, in turn, would have turned the intercept to Antonio Vaccarino, who would then give it to the boss Vincenzo Sant'Angelo. Interesting is the story of this Vaccarino, former mayor of Castelvetrano, who Matteo Messina Money himself renamed Svetonius, who in the past had entertained a correspondence made of pinches with the chief mafia and that our secret services later admitted to be their infiltrator. The judiciary will establish the responsibilities of the protagonists of this affair, even if the painful suspicion that belonging to the Forces of the Order passes information on the ongoing investigations to people close to the fugitive superboss throws once again a left light on the behavior of the apparatuses of the State in the fight against the Mafia. Who's on whose side? We must once again ask ourselves this question in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The investigations following the death of Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino told the unbelieving citizens how, while the two magistrates carried out investigations able, perhaps for the first time, to dismantle Cosa Nostra and its activities, deviant parts of the State, beginning with those of the Services, entertained subtrack relations with the thighs and their most visible affiliates, some of which can be placed in the narrow circle of those who in 1992 decided the death of the same Falcone and Borsellino. That is why today we feel the duty to raise this alarm, so that tomorrow we cannot say that politics and institutions have been distracted by such devastating episodes of collusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u119	Senator Di Nicola, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u120	DI NICOLA (M5S). What is the DIA doing in Palermo? Parliament is watching and we want it to open an investigation into what is happening in Palermo through its most important body, the Anti-Mafia Commission. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To see who is on the side of who and why the magistrates, the secret services and the police can give, if they can, assurances to the citizens who are all on the side of the institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u121	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-111.ana.u122	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 14 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
