ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, I would also like to express my congratulations to Senator Valente for the election of President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u6	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, yesterday President Marcucci sent you a letter in which, pursuant to Rule 105 (1- bis) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, we asked that the Government come to the Chamber as soon as possible to discuss the matter of the FTA. President, we had predicted - and we had been good prophets - that the cost-benefit analysis would be nothing more than a diversion, because it is an eminently political choice; just as we have repeatedly said that the affair of the FTA would inevitably be a ground of confrontation between the two majority forces that support the current Government. We said so and it's happening. What is not acceptable, however, is that we talk about this issue everywhere except in Parliament, except in the Senate, except in the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to say that we are also asking for this urgent information for the benefit of Vice Prime Minister Salvini, who said that he could not see the cost-benefit analysis. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Who knows that, having to speak in Parliament, someone, besides giving it to the French Government, also shows it to him: it seems absolutely right. We always have the sense of the State and we help Vice President Salvini, even if he is opposed. Mr President, GDP is falling; we do not say so, but the figures. We are in a technical recession; growth forecasts of 1.5% are likely to fall well below one, even to 0.2. In any other country other than Italy the great works would be accelerated, not slowed down and blocked. It is well known to all, in fact, also to students of not particularly brilliant economy, that if you want to increase GDP you have to intervene on investments. Moreover - let us start to make some clarity - this is a work largely funded by the European Union, so the classic phrase "we will use these funds to do other things" is once again propaganda, falsehood. [[Applause from the PD Group]] These are funds that the European Union gives us and they are bound: either we do that work or we give them back. But can a country with these economic difficulties return a few billion euros? In short, that Parliament does not have to discuss this issue is consistent with your strategy, with what we said yesterday, that we will say today and that we will continue to say. For you Parliament must be emptied, it must not have a role, it must not be important; parliamentarians must be paperweights: perhaps paperweights of a government contract signed elsewhere and not in the institutional fora. This is your very clear plan: we must not debate in Parliament, let alone discuss issues that split the majority. We have already seen it on the Maduro case, with the glorious and little dignified position that the Government of Italy has. But if Parliament is to be closed for you, for us Parliament is the highest seat of democracy, the place where democracy is expressed. It's not just about us. You will see that Italian citizens will open their eyes on this and will be with us and with all those who want to defend democracy, which you trample on every day. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let's talk about TAV in Parliament. Mr President, I appeal to you: we must give our institutions the value they deserve. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u9	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to join you on the subject that has just been proposed. An unheard-of fact has taken place in this country in recent days. Mr Toninelli, at least as far as the press reports are concerned, would have presented the plan to amend, with respect to international agreements, a work financed by the European Union and considered essential by several governments of this nation only and only to the Members - or some of them - of his political group. We do not know that the President of the Council of Ministers has been able to respond to this study. Not only that. It is clear from the press that the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Salvini, has stated that he does not know about it. We are therefore faced with unilateral acts by a Minister who, unbeknownst to the Government and Parliament, is moving in the opposite direction to those which have been the parliamentary guidelines since the Turin-Lyon high-speed line and corridor 5 connecting Lisbon to Kiev are contained in international agreements and financed by Italy, France and the European Union and have been repeatedly the subject of parliamentary vote, including on the Treaties. At this moment there is the betrayal of the parliamentary commitment of the Republic by one Minister, only one. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For this reason, Mr President, we are calling for your intervention with regard to the Government and the President of the Council, so that the Commission responds to Parliament and brings the matter to the parliamentary Chambers and is the subject of a parliamentary vote, because it is a parliamentary vote that has indicated the TAV as an essential work for the development of our country. We therefore support the request that the Government urgently report to Parliament and make appropriate assessments. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u12	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, I would like to address you on the point raised by Senator Margiotta on two issues. I am afraid that, on the question of the cost-benefit ratio given by Minister Toninelli to the French Government, there is a violation of parliamentary law. I would ask you to check, but, if I recall correctly, in the Italian-French agreement ratified by Parliament in 2013 it was expected that the Commissions would first be informed about the progress of the work and what else. If the government in office has given a job relating to the comparison of costs and benefits to the French Government without informing Parliament, nor the parliamentary committee responsible for the Chamber or Senate, I fear that there is an injury to Parliament's law, subject to verification (and of course I trust your competence, Mr President), and, in particular, to the commitments made by the government with this Parliament. This creates a condition of embarrassment that is added to the many particularly difficult and complicated situations that have occurred over the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u15	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, the issue, as we have said for a long time, is linked to the cost-benefit analysis, on the basis of which we will assess, with our government contractors, the feasibility of the work. I would like to remind you that some of the issues that continue to be repeated, such as the fact that the money is all European, are false, because Italy has about 11 billion to invest in a work that affects two thirds on Italian territory and one third on French territory. The French, more or less, have the same amount to pay. Of this work no inch has been dug, because only the descendants, that is the geognostic tunnels, have been made to verify what was in the mountain, however with disturbing environmental results, because inside the mountains of the Val Susa there are in considerable quantity both asbestos and uranium that, if they are under the mountains, do nothing, but if they are carried out with the rubble for a tunnel of more than 57 kilometers, imagine how much material can produce and how much pollution can derive from it. The story that we should pay for penalties is false because, even with the latest ratification of the agreement between Italy and France in this Parliament in 2017, a fundamental point has been reiterated: we must not give back anything to TELT, it is TELT who asks, if necessary, for money, but we are not obliged either with respect to those who will do the work, or with respect to Europe, who should give us the resources. I repeat that the European Special Coordinator already in 2013, on all European rail traffic infrastructure, stated the usefulness of this work. This is in fact a work - we remember it for the millionth time - that goes to side with an existing line that is exploited for 13-16 percent and that can currently already carry tir with over container; but it is not convenient. So we want to wait for the cost-benefit analysis and stop talking about motions that come up in this legislature because the government has changed? This is a work already defined by the French Court of Auditors itself in 2013 (there are documents) as too expensive and useless and it is yet another subject that defines it as too expensive and useless. Earn twenty minutes in bringing goods to Lyon or Paris, in a tunnel with high speed (they call it TAC), considering that you can't definitely do 200 kilometers per hour in a tunnel of 10 or 20 kilometers (how much the segments of the tunnel will be), I think it is absolutely madness, especially since it is not true that Italy costs nothing. Italy, which has already spent 1.8 billion to date, touches another 2.8 billion and then another billion, until reaching 11 billion. This is the truth: everything else is chatter. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u18	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak only on this issue to say that we are okay with communication, but... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, I'm sorry, Senator Taricco. Your group has already spoken. TARICCO (PD). I just wanted to reiterate, as a Piedmont senator, that I believe we need an official government communication. PRESIDENT. - The debate is That's what Senator Margiotta said, who spoke for his group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u19	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. In the unified text proposed by the Commission, 214, 515 and 805. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the general debate was over and the replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u20	Mr President, on the amendments to Article 1, the rapporteur takes the opposite view and calls on Senator Bressa to withdraw from Amendment No 1,106 because, although he understands the problems of the Slovenian minority, he considers it inappropriate. In fact, in Article 56 of the Constitution, there are no references to any kind of minority, while Article 6, which is absolutely present and active, remains in force.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u21	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u25	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of this explanation of vote to make the request to reduce the temperature in this House, also because what we are wasting on energy and CO2 is the equivalent of ten senators, since this seems to me to be the parameter; it would therefore be desirable to try to work in an appropriate way for our health and the environment. The first amendment we are debating is 1.1: as I said last night and as I tried to explain during the stage of explaining the amendments, the guiding criterion of this reform - at least from what we understood from the replies and the very rare interventions of the majority - in fact seemed to us only and exclusively that of costs. The numbers given - 400 MPs and 200 senators - are anchored to a pure mathematical choice (which could also have fallen on other figures, such as 420, 430 or 450), without however indicating a clear criterion. We have also made a choice through an analysis of the relationship between the elected in the lower chambers and the upper chambers of the other European countries, therefore between Members and senators and I would like to remind you once again that Italy, in the current situation, certainly does not belong among the countries that present the highest number of parliamentarians. With regard to the numerical comparison between the Lower Houses, in this case Article 1, I would like to reiterate the data contained in the dossier prepared by the Senate Studies Office, which we have been able to examine and which are for everyone's attention: in Austria the ratio between Members per 100,000 inhabitants is 2.1, in Belgium of 1.3, in Bulgaria of 3.4, in Denmark of 3.1, in Estonia of 7.7 and in Finland of 3.6. We certainly did not refer to these countries, in which the relationship produces a rather high number of Members as a coefficient, but those who present a similarity with Italy from an institutional, socio-economic and historical point of view, so as to be closer to us: I am talking about France, Germany and Spain. With the proposal of 400 Members, Italy, which currently has one Member per 96,000 inhabitants, would have one Member per 151,210, with a ratio of 0.7 Members per 100,000 inhabitants. We have made a reasoning to place Italy halfway between the legislative proposal and countries such as France, Germany and Spain and we have proposed a report of 0.8, thus bringing the number of citizens for each Member to 114,295 with a coefficient that seemed appropriate to us. I would like to remind you that France has a coefficient of 0.9, Germany of 0.9, Spain of 0.8; if our proposals were approved, Italy would place itself among these countries with a ratio of 0.8. We are simply making a proposal, which we have obviously not been able to discuss and deepen, but which we wanted to anchor to precise data and analysis because, instead, in the proposal that came from the majority, the number could be 450 or 500, being anchored at nothing but a generic cost. Mr President, since we were talking earlier about the TAV - on which our positions are a little different from those outlined so far - we would propose that we set up a cost-benefit committee for democracy, so that we may have more reliable data to understand how much it costs and what benefits democracy brings, because at this point we have arrived.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u28	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make an overall explanation of vote on all the first-signed amendments by Senator De Petris, announcing the vote in favour of Forza Italia. Ours is not an occasional accession but it is a choice that dates back to the constitutional reform of 2005, in which we had indicated in 518 the number of Members and 252 the number of Senators. It is therefore not a question of merely cutting parliamentary representation; it is a question of making it compatible with the needs of efficiency and ordinary administration. We believe that all the De Petris amendments aim precisely at this condition, so on all these amendments we announce our vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u29	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators De Petris and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u32	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, as Senator Vitali has already announced, we will also vote in favour of this amendment, because it contains the figures we proposed, with a long parliamentary path that arrived at the end of its process with the approval of both branches of Parliament with the double vote, as required by the Constitution. This reform included numbers very similar to those indicated by Senator De Petris, which is why we will be voting in favour of amendment 1,100. We have heard a number of fairy tales about the number of Italian MPs. Today, at EU level, if we report the number of parliamentarians to the population, out of 28 countries we are in sixth place, in the sense that only five countries have less parliamentarians for every million inhabitants of Italy. With a reduction of only 180 parliamentarians, then removing 60 senators and 120 parliamentarians, we would take second place in Europe; in other words, no country would have, already with this reduction, so few parliamentarians compared to the inhabitants compared to Italy. The only country that would continue to have fewer parliamentarians than ours is Germany, with everything they have equipped because today there are 700 parliamentarians because of the electoral law and the Constitution with a flexible number of parliamentarians. However, the interesting thing is that Germany is a federal state and therefore has more than 2,000 equivalent to our regional advisors, while we have only about 700. CASTALDI (M5S). That's good. MALAN (FI-BP). The members of the parliaments of the Länder, who are the unit on the basis of which the Federal Republic of Germany is formed, are comparable to the national parliamentarians, also because they have much more than those of the Italian parliamentarians in the secretariat and reimbursements expenses. As a result, the number of German MPs plus the regional councillors (which are not real regional councillors) is 2,700, not to mention the fact that some members of the Länder governments are part of the Bundesrat, which is the so-called second German Chamber, although it is not really a second Chamber: we cannot count them because some coincide, so there are 2,700. In Italy, today, between regional councillors and parliamentarians we are around 1,600, so from the numerical point of view Italy does not constitute any scandal. We believe that the number of Members should be reduced, but not because the current number is a scandal, but because we consider it more functional to an efficient democracy, where we can identify the individual responsibilities of how each Member votes. Of course, if Members do not vote, there is no problem in identifying them: if it is the case with the last budget law, when we have not voted except for the final vote, there is no need for either 300 or 600 or 2 000. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We want an efficient democracy, but above all a democracy; instead, there are those who want a democracy that costs little and that if it is not a democracy it is even better. We're not on that side there. Continuing with the comparisons, in these days I have heard, between the amused and the horrified, the authoritative vice-president of the Council make the comparison with the numbers of China. However, I see that the time available to me is already over, so I will talk about China in the next speech. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pinotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u33	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.102.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment addresses the thorny problem, which was touched on yesterday by the rapporteur in his reply, of the Italians elected abroad, or rather of the Italian citizens residing abroad, which is governed by a constitutional law, which I did not vote for because it was not adopted in a legislature in which I was a member of Parliament, and by an ordinary law, which I too at the time, in a legislature in which I was a member of this Senate, did not vote. However, it is written in the Constitution that Italians abroad are entitled to vote, so we cannot pretend, not changing that part, that the "foreigners" (as someone has defined them) cannot vote: our fellow countrymen resident abroad have the right to vote because they are Italian. This states the Italian Constitution, even before the reform took place some twenty years ago. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The rapporteur referred to the principle of no taxation without representation, which, however, says the opposite. He says you can't tax someone without giving them the right to represent; he doesn't say otherwise, that you can't have representation if you don't pay taxes, because if that's the case, if the principle is interpreted in the sense that if you don't pay taxes in Italy you don't have the right to vote, then you should go back to before the so-called Tremaglia law that facilitated the vote of Italians abroad. If the principle is that if you don't pay taxes you can't vote, even if they start from somewhere, maybe from Switzerland or Australia to come and vote in Italy, they shouldn't be able to vote the same, when it's always been possible. For the truth only since 1948, because before you could not. Shall we go back to before 1948? I don't think so, but maybe someone would. We therefore believe that the arguments put forward by the Italians abroad, which, moreover, pay some taxes, cannot be passed in silence. What should we write, then? We should make an annex to the law on citizenship income, because if you not only do not pay taxes, but even receive income from the state, you should be deprived of the right to vote. If there is such consistency, then I expect to find an amendment that says: if you take citizenship income, you no longer have the right to vote. Of course, it would cease the mechanism of the exchange vote inherent in that rule, but the principle stated by the rapporteur of no taxation no representation would be respected. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u37	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Parrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u40	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, a few days ago, the vice-president of the Council, Mr Luigi Di Maio, made a very interesting comparison with China and said that if China had the same parliamentary-inhabitant relationship as Italy, its parliament would have to meet in the sports hall or something. It is true: China has about thirty times the inhabitants of Italy, so it would have different needs. However, if we adopt the same principle, we should also remember that if we had the same citizen-parliamentary relationship as Sweden, our Parliament should be made up of 2,000 members. We do not believe that it should be made up of 2,000 Members, but perhaps Mr Di Maio should, because if Italy's relationship with China is okay, then it is also okay between Italy and Sweden. If we adopt the same parameters as Luxembourg, we should have 7,000 Members; those of Malta 10,000 Members. So let us not make daring comparisons; but I am not talking about numbers, because the extraordinary and really very interesting thing, unfortunately disturbing, of the comparison of Minister Di Maio is that he forgot a little detail: in China Parliament is not there, that is the problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There is no, because people have no right to vote, there is no religious freedom and there is no freedom of trade union association. Is this the model you want to propose? Other than numbers, here the problem is: is there or is there no democracy? Here we want to make people believe that reducing the number of parliamentarians is a good thing in itself and therefore the Chinese model is: zero parliamentarians for one and a half billion people. Since zero cannot be multiplied, the same number is that of Italy and that is what happens when Parliament is prevented from voting. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u41	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,104, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,105 has been withdrawn. Senator Bressa, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 1,106? BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,106, tabled by Senator Bressa. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,107, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have already been tabled, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u42	Mr President, I am opposed to all the sub-amendments to Amendment 2.100; on the latter, of course, I am in favour. I also call for the withdrawal of amendments 2.109, 2.110, 2.5, 2.111 and 2.6, because they concern the subject dealt with and resolved by the rapporteur's amendment 2,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u43	Mr President, the Government is returning to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u44	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.100/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u47	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I repeat the same explanation of vote made earlier. In this case, we're talking about a reduction in the number of senators. All the first-signed amendments by Senator De Petris referred to Article 2 go in the direction of increasing the threshold of the number of senators, so they approach the meaning of the 2005 Berlusconi reform, which brought the number of senators to 252. However, we must point out that the rapporteur's amendment 2,100 in essence makes all the other amendments irrelevant. I would therefore ask you to stay on the record. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u50	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, my statement relates to all the sub-amendments tabled in relation to the rapporteur's amendment 2,100. Sorry to say, because we had discussed the issue of the Autonomous Provinces of Trentino-Alto Adige, as you know, in the Commission for a very long time, so we would have liked a solution even before the votes in the Commission. It is obvious that, having established a fixed number of two hundred senators, this has produced, in order to resolve the issue of Trentino-Alto Adige and Molise, a change not really irrelevant with regard to the minimum number of senators for each Region (we move to three), and in particular the reduction of the number of senators (as the Regions concerned will know) for some smaller Regions, such as Basilicata and Umbria. What, then, is the problem? As we said earlier in an explanation of vote on Article 1, although the reduction in the number of Members and senators is the same in percentage terms, if in the case of the House from the point of view of efficiency we are still talking about 400 Members, in the case of the Senate the envisaged measure will have a greater and much stronger impact on the organisation of the work. However, these reductions are foreshadowed by assessments of this kind and are numerical in nature: someone has decided that the reduction should be 36% and in this respect I find a certain similarity to the proposals of the hated Macron by this majority, who has tabled a bill for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians by 30%. You've attested to 36 percent, but the logic seems the same. I do not read you again - Senator Malan has done so too - the rankings of the various countries, but I would like to stress once again that, in the case of the Senate, even if the reduction is the same for the House, the impact on parliamentary work; in particular on the fruitful organization of the work of the Commissions, will be greater. I would like to remind everyone that, as has been shown, producing tears on the Senate is never good. So do you and see if you want to continue on this road. Thank you. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u51	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.100/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u54	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we could promote a round table with Minister Di Maio on the Chinese Senate because China, being an advanced country, has really abolished it, or rather never had it, so it is really a model of democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Margiotta and Martelli]] No freedom, no workers' rights, no religious freedom: a true model, great savings. They invest everything on the National Institute of Statistics, which is their strength and which is in the place of Parliament: I do not allusion to the events concerning the National Institute of Statistics, which of course is a state appointment, especially in China, and this is a model for sure. (Minister Fraccaro [[mentions a smile.]] Minister Fraccaro, thank you for your kindness. I want to talk about the news that is being circulated by the Movimento 5 Stars about the alleged savings of this reform. They say the savings would be 300,000 euros a day, i.e. 109.5 million a year. There is, however, a small problem: it is not true, it is a lie and, when they say it falsely, they talk about their own and I hope that someone will take the quote. In fact, even the former Minister Boschi, when he boasted the savings that would result from his reform, did not get to these figures by talking about the Senate: there were other attached expenses that he thought would be reduced, because the measure was much larger. At the time I said, and I am absolutely convinced, that the numbers were absolutely not true and the General Accounting of the State gave me reason, stating that in all, from the overall reform proposed by the majority Renzi, there would be a savings of about 60-70 million euros. Now suddenly, with a measure that does not touch the Provinces and does not touch a whole series of other things that touched on the proposal of the last legislature, we reach 109. This is because you wrote it on Twitter, you repeat it, you say it in all stages and, as a famous communicator of the last century said, the lie repeated a thousand times becomes truth (Wiederholung macht Wahrheit). The famous communicator was also a luminary, being a doctor according to the German parameters, and his name was Joseph Goebbels and undoubtedly his teaching still proselytes today. Repeating a lie a thousand times makes it become truth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are the numbers. Starting from the real numbers - those of the Senate budget, which is public - the savings would be 49-50 million euros. Of course, then I want to go further, but it is 49-50, not 109. Of course everyone will say that it is better 49-50, in fact we too are for a reduction, but we are not to tell lies to the people, because those who lie wounds end up as in Venezuela, where people were made to believe that triple state employees would achieve democratization and the humanization of the economy and instead they have poverty, look at it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u55	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/2, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u58	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I should like to point out that the mechanism has not worked and I have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u59	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.100/3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u62	MALAN (FI-BP). From this reform, given that the current status of Members of Parliament is maintained - and here we are proud to say that we want to reduce it, so it would also reduce savings - we would save 50 million, but according to the false propaganda of the Movimento 5 Stars there would be 109.5 I would point out that, only for the greater interest on the public debt, of the bonds placed by the fantastic 1 June, when his work began the current Government, until today, Italy has committed itself to pay about four billion more than the average interests that there were the year before, that it was not the ideal world, but it was the previous Government. They threw four billion in interest to make the proclamations and then go to Brussels to ask "What do you need?" - "How do we write it?" In the meantime, four billions have been thrown away, but then you save 50 million: do you want to put? Then it is said that the 50 is 100, but I would say that 100 million is always much less than four billion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am not talking, among other things, about the forecasts made by some people's enemies, but about the forecasts made by this government, which were an increase in GDP of 1.50% for next year. Yesterday we heard that it will be 0.2 and the pace is not 0.2 but if anything for - 0.2, the difference is 1.3 points. We have heard for several months say "But who cares about the zero comma?" I remember, however, that every 0.1 percent of gross domestic product represents a few billion, to be precise, more than two. The difference of 1.3 points of GDP, therefore, amounts to about 25 billion less in the pockets of the Italians than what this Government had predicted just a few months ago. To summarize, therefore, twenty-five billion less in the pockets of the Italians only for the decrease of GDP and four billion for the greater interests paid. Then there is my question, to which Minister Toninelli will perhaps one day answer, in which I ask him how he can give the holders of the motorway concessions - all of them, even those where there are no projects in house - receipts that should be of the State, because for now eight and a half months he does not care to race for the motorway concessions and there we talk of another billion (just making a good price) but then we save 50 million on this. Well, that's great. Let's talk about it, let's deepen the issue; we, I repeat, have done so, so it is obvious that we are in favour of a reduction, but let's not tell people that with this measure, then, you can do who knows what social expenses, you can help the poor: the poor help themselves by making the country grow, making sure that they are no longer poor, so that they find a job and do not live of welfare, as in the Chávez and Maduro regime in Venezuela. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/3, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/5, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/6, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100/7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the rapporteur, which is entirely a replacement for the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The subsequent amendments tabled on Article 2 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now turn to the amendments to add additional articles after Article 3, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u65	Mr President, I am going back to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u66	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.0.1 (text 2) which is essentially the same as Amendment 3.0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u69	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, Amendment 3.0.1 (text 2) aims to re-examine the number of regional delegates for the election of the President of the Republic. Yesterday, the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, explained to us, in a very precise way, the reason why he reduced the representatives of Italians proportionally abroad: he said that a proportional reduction is being made, so proportionally it is also done on the elected abroad. At that point, the only non-political but technical amendment that we tabled went in the direction indicated by Vice-President Calderoli. Why not also reduce the number of regional delegates proportionally? Yesterday, however, Vice President Calderoli himself made an opposite argument, arguing that this number should not be reduced proportionally. Well, that seems absolutely inconsistent to us. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment. There is an arrangement that needs to be taken into account. Senator Calderoli told us yesterday that the overall vision of reforms is not discussed here, because it is in the government contract. Mr Fraccaro then told us that this is a parliamentary initiative and, therefore, the government says nothing. Finally, you come, Mr President, who, with the interpretation, considers the amendments to be inadmissible. At this point it is clear that the framework and overall idea of the reforms that you will carry out in the country will never be discussed. In fact, Senator Calderoli tells us to read the government contract; the government representative tells us that this is a matter for Parliament; the Presidency tells us that everything is limited. I ask you, please, to give us the opportunity to discuss the bill as a whole and, therefore, I invite you to return to the notary and make a reform contract, extrapolating it from that of Government. So it's clearer. The government contract concerns the government and you, Minister Fraccaro, will be able to express your views on the issues of the Executive. The reforms will be contained in the reform contract and someone will have to explain to us how they are to be done. However, this little game is not good, in which the rapporteur tells us to look at the government contract, the government representative says that this is a matter for Parliament (and, therefore, we have to deal with it), while the President considers unacceptable all the amending proposals that come out of the content of the drafts of law (punctual and surgical, as they have been defined). All this, in fact, clears the debate on the overall design of the reforms that you want to carry out in the parliamentary classrooms and is absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u72	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, yesterday we heard the rapporteur's reply, which - I say this quite frankly - on the question of how the college for the election of the President of the Republic remains unchanged is not convincing at all, for a very simple reason. You have applied a dry percentage reduction in the number of Members, and it is clear that this leads to an imbalance. Nobody questions that all those who are members of the college called to elect the President are elected (even regional councillors are elected). The problem, however, is the ratio and proportion, for a very simple reason. We are talking about a percentage of about 10 percent (58 out of 600) and it is evident that it creates an alteration. With these numbers - Senator Calderoli knows better than I do - the relationship is altered. In fact, the new relationship between the 58 great voters indicated by the Regions and the 600 MPs will have a clear effect on the election of the President of the Republic and on the provisions of the Constitution in order to try to have a majority as wide as possible. So it was absolutely normal for there to be a re-election; for this reason we have indicated it in the number of two, ensuring that there are minorities, one and one, opposition and government of the Regions. This absolutely does not alter anything of the spirit and meaning for which the great regional voters are indicated for the election of the President of the Republic. However, it alters a great deal and makes one thing clear to us; I spoke yesterday, in my speech, about the application of Article 116 and what will happen on 15 February. The only thing that remains intact is the number of great voters for the election of the President of the Republic; this indicates a path of substantial change in the structure of our state. We must say that and we must take responsibility for it. You want to make the autonomy strengthened and the secession of the rich regions; do it, but you have to say it and you have to assume responsibility for it. Do not take it another way, with the story of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians or the rhetoric of direct democracy. Take on your responsibilities and indicate what is the objective you are pursuing, because this is now very clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u73	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Parrini and Collina, essentially identical to Amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senators De Petris and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u76	(at 10.40 a.m.) Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies, with the intervention of Senator Casini, has expressed its doubts about the measure under consideration, a measure which risks exceedingly compromising the democratic representation of the country. We certainly agree that a revision of the number of Members should be done, but this should be accompanied, in our view, by a more comprehensive reform. However, as a representative of the component of the linguistic minorities of the Per le Autonomie Group, I would like to thank all those colleagues, starting with the rapporteur for the measure, Mr Roberto Calderoli, for having supported and voted in favour of the amendment safeguarding the proper representation of linguistic minorities in the legislative bodies. As you know, in the Autonomous Province of Bolzano, measure 111 of the package, directly implementing the Paris International Agreement, guarantees the participation in Parliament of representatives of the Italian and German language groups in proportion to the size of the groups themselves. In our land the German language group reaches a consistency of about 75% and the Italian language group of about 25% of the citizens. The only solution to ensure the correct representation of language groups is therefore the provision of at least three single colleges, just as provided for today by Law No 422 of the year 1991. The constitutional bill, thanks to this important amendment adopted in the Assembly, keeps the situation unchanged for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol and, in line with the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, equals the autonomous Provinces to the Regions. Also for the Valle D'Aosta Region, where the French-speaking minority is present, the text of the measure does not change the current situation, keeping unchanged the same numbers of representatives for both the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. The appeal lacks the representation of the Slovenian linguistic minority. In this respect, we hope that it can be properly represented and ensured in the course of the debate on Senate Act No 881 on the applicability of electoral laws regardless of the number of Members. We also hope that the same attention will be paid to the sensitive issue of consolidated linguistic minorities in our country in the aforementioned draft law No 881 which will shortly be before this House. I therefore voted in favour of the measure by the member of the linguistic minorities of the Autonomous Group. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u79	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of the Misto-Liberi and Equal Group will vote against this proposed Constitutional Review Act, which aims to reduce the number of Members. We believe that we have already explained a great deal of the reasons in the speeches under discussion and also during the examination in the Commission. The guiding criterion for this proposal to reduce the number of Members, as has been clearly understood also in the very rare and very valuable interventions of the majority, was only that of costs. What does that mean? As far as we are concerned, it is completely unacceptable that the issue of parliamentary democracy should be dealt with only by means of the cost parameter, because that means saying that the question of democracy - which I will come back to later - is obviously linked only to saving or increasing costs. That is why I have ironically proposed the establishment of a cost-benefit committee for democracy itself. As you will well understand, we are faced with a truly epochal change that is taking place all over the world and concerns not only our country, but also many others. Objectively there is a crisis of representative democracy, which in our country we have recorded inexorably in recent years, and a strong relaxation of the relationship between citizens and institutions and with their representatives. We cannot respond to the crisis of representative democracy with less democracy or with the cost parameter; we must respond to it with more democracy, in our view - and we have not changed our mind on this point, because it is the same issues that we raised when we opposed the constitutional reform of Boschi-Renzi - and with the capacity to reform and intervene, to strengthen the system of parliamentary democracy. That is the point: can the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, in your view, make it possible to strengthen the democratic system and parliamentary democracy? I don't think so. Analyzing only savings and costs, to take them as the only guidelines, is an absolutely wrong way to act. You did not even have the courage to put the question of efficiency, while it would have been possible to reflect on the efficiency of the democratic system, to make it more responsive to the need to take political decisions and responsibilities in order to rebuild the relationship with the citizens; but you did not give any answer on this. And you cannot hide behind the fact that you actually strengthen democracy, because in the other House you have put forward a proposal for constitutional reform on the institution of the proposed referendum. This pattern doesn't work. To oppose institutions of direct democracy, of participatory democracy and of referendum to parliamentary democracy is exactly the opposite of what needs to be done: we must strengthen - and we are absolutely convinced of this - to innovate, even with the proposed referendum, the institutions of direct democracy, of participatory democracy; to strengthen the ability of citizens to decide and make their strong contribution. At the same time, however, it is necessary to pursue the strengthening of the institutions of parliamentary democracy, not the opposition because it does not lead to the strengthening of democracy. It's a misconception. Contrast leads to another idea of plebiscytic democracy that may be fashionable in Hungary and other countries, but it is certainly not an example of parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy is the system that the Constitution has given us and on which our democratic institutions have been built. 10:48 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). What was necessary to do? I tell Minister Fraccaro he's very distracted right now. Precisely to give a boost, to give back strength to parliamentary democracy it was necessary to put back hand to the system that the Constitution gives us, which provides for the balance of powers, the division of powers between legislative and executive. What has happened in recent years, inexorably because it has distinguished virtually all governments, has been a sort of Parliament's anxillary construction towards the Executive - this is what has happened - through the continuous and constant use of the decree of urgency and confidence. This has, in fact, led to an almost irreparable weakening of parliamentary democracy and Parliament towards the Commission. In order to strengthen parliamentary democracy, even with a view to reducing the number of parliamentarians, it would be necessary to severely limit the use of the urgent decree. It has happened that the great advocates of democracy, of the division of powers and of the balance of powers - these were the demands that were made by you too in opposing the previous constitutional reform - as soon as they became a majority they used and abused, even more than their predecessors, the decree of urgency. We have come to the point - as has been the case with the budget law - that parliamentarians have really been put in a position not to see, not to know and to pass under the Presidency or to vote, without having the opportunity to intervene to change the bill. This is what is happening, exactly the opposite of what was necessary. Now, you are representatives and this reform is a symptom of it, because the problem is not only the reduction of Members but everything else, what it foreshadows, the declarations, the parliaments that will have to disappear. We may all vote on platforms run by some companies, some multinational companies, but that is the vision of democracy and we are not. The anti-parliamentaryism, unfortunately, is one of the evils of our country and it is not a recent evil; it is a karst river, a thread that has been built since the time of the unity of Italy, which appears and disappears and once again you are feeding it; you now decline it with the demagogic and rhetorical declarations against the caste. But if you wanted to deny it, anti-parliamentaryism had to be opposed to strengthening not only direct democracy and participatory democracy but also parliamentary democracy. A strong relationship between citizens and elected representatives must be rebuilt. That's the real point. Instead, you continue to feed the rhetoric of the caste that works, but - apparently - only to a certain extent, because now you are clearly preparing to absolve the caste. And we'll see what's gonna happen on Salvini, where you're gonna have a different attitude. In that case the caste no longer absolves itself; in that case another idea emerges that does not belong to the rule of law, that for which the Ministers, in their action of government, can also be above the laws, legibus solutus. As I said yesterday, welcome to normal. Slowly you are coming to normal, that of those who use, abuse and trample Parliament and of those who even reach the point of thinking that, in the name of the government contract, which is your new Constitution, you can also act outside the law and against the law. That is not the idea that we have of democracy. On the matter of the referendum - as the Minister knows very well - we are working, we have worked together, we have made proposals to the House in the idea that that reform, which is important, must be accompanied by a strengthening of parliamentary democracy and not by the opposition between participatory and parliamentary democracy. That is a path that leads us somewhere else: not towards strengthening democracy, but towards abandoning the system of the democratic system, not like what we have known. We really thought that, after the defeat of the constitutional referendum of that constitutional reform, the time could come to give back strength to our Constitution, to our democracy, and yet again we are walking on a path that you will never find us on, but you will always find us barring it as we have done in the past. [[Applause from Senators Laforgia and Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u82	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group - I do not know if you have noticed this - abstained on all the amendments and did not submit them to the Commission, because we do not have any consideration for the draft constitutional law under consideration, which is preparing to take the first round of buoys: the road is long, more than a government can necessarily be assumed to last. We did not want to interfere in any way with what we considered not a proposal for constitutional reform, but an electoral ad. In Naples they say: 'cà niscìuno is a fool'and then the attempt of the majority parties to put themselves on the side of those who go behind the popular desire to break down the number of parliamentarians does not see us opposed: it would be too convenient. We will not make counterfigures, we will not accept the logic of the governing parties to stand up as defenders of the good against the will of the whole House. Therefore, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of this measure, which we do not appreciate at all. It is not that we do not appreciate the idea that we should and can reduce the number of Members. You were elected in my own parliamentary term and you know that, first, we tried to achieve it and you rejected a popular referendum supported by the left, which blew up what many years ago, in 2005, was an overall plan, in which elements of presidentialism were inserted, in which we discussed the complex of the institutional architecture of the State and consequently the number of parliamentarians was reduced. On the other hand, you do not want to start with the building of a constitutional reform, but with the furnishings: the number of Members is the consequence of a constitutional reform. It cannot be said that, in the meantime, we are going to be few and then we will see how and what the 200 senators or 400 Members will do. First we have to decide what Parliament does, after what it has to do. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Maybe the goal is to make people forget that you couldn't do anything about the family? Where's the flat tax you promised? No way, not even the incremental one that proposed Brothers of Italy. The same citizenship income, which I don't like and which is welfare, where is it? With what money and who's it gonna be? It's just a bad promise, which will not come, not even that, kept. What about immigration? Where's the naval blockade off Libya? Where are the reunions you promised us? I'm not here. And the bureaucracy has grown, it has not diminished. Not to mention the infrastructure: No TAV, Yes TAV, No TAV, Yes TAV. Poor Italy! What is the element that can cover everything, then? Let us reduce the number of Members of Parliament. We give the people a loaf of bread, if we can't give them work, if we can't bring down taxes and we can't help families. At least we satisfy the desire to say: it is all the fault of those parliamentarians, sitting in those benches, to do nothing. Let's take them down, so we solved the problem of consensus. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We do not seek an easy consensus, but we would like to rebuild the foundations of our institutions. That is why, President, they are in Parliament, the House and the Senate, proposals for the presidential reform of the state. Yesterday, President Calderoli hurled against one of the morally most beautiful reforms, that of the unforgettable Mirko Tremaglia, who wanted to give representativeness also to Italians abroad. Then we can discuss the law that we did after and how to guarantee it, but the sacrosanct right of Italians in the world to vote cannot be considered a mistake by the rapporteur, indeed. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We have presented more bills of presidential reform. And when we talk about presidential reform, it's not a right-wing thing or, worse, for years it's called a fascist, because you want it to command only one. I remember that Gaetano Salvemini, Piero Calamandrei, Rodolfo Pacciardi, Leo Valiani, Giuseppe Saragat, Giuseppe Maranini, Giorgio La Pira, Craxi, Almirante and Franchi spoke of presidentialism. In this House, however, we start from the number of Members, without even allowing a debate on what the Italians, at 80%, would like and not to satisfy a spirit of sterile revenge, but to give Italy serious, true and good institutions. What would be wrong if we had at least debated today - then would have voted on this House; if it had been against it, patience - together with the number to be reduced by Members, the way in which citizens can directly elect a Head of State? The President already has more powers than those that provided for the Constitution written by the Fathers, but he has them without electoral suffrage behind him, and I do not say abusively, but almost, without the necessary and decisive authority in important moments. If he had, Mr Calderoli, President and rapporteur, would a President of the Republic have allowed an abstention vote on Venezuela today? Could he have allowed that in a presidentialist system? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] They say: "I don't know, we think about it." Maduro is a communist who is making a ruthless dictatorship his own personal dictatorship, and we say: "I don't know." Why? Why do we not know or why there is a lack of an institutional system in which responsibility is clearly attributed to someone by popular will? We wanted to talk about this, not about the 200 or 300 senators. Moreover, this cut reminds me of my friend Tremonti - also your friend, Mr President - who, when he had to make economic cuts to the Ministries - remembers that, President? - he made a linear cut because he claims that in this way he did not displease anyone. We have made politics give way to an arithmetic teacher: we cut a percentage per head, regardless, for example, of the fact - I say it among the thousand things - that 200 senators may be too few compared to Members of the House to maintain the current number of Commissions. First, then, the 200 senators are expected to go, and then the number is decided. No, let's do the opposite. But what do you want me to do to the elector of my country of origin, Paternò, or the elector of my city of adoption, Milan, how many are the Commissions? Vote not for that, but if you give him a meal and then for him those bloody senators and parliamentarians at home have to go, so they learn. What we learn I don't know; what they learn I don't know. There can be, there must be a reduction in the number, only depending on a different construction. The road is long. The road - thank God - you have not yet been able to change it. The constituent Fathers have foreseen it with several passages. We are voting in favour of the measure, because - I repeat - no one is fooled: you will not be able to say that they were all opposed, and that you, beautiful and good, have satisfied the instinct of popular revenge. We are voting in favour of it, although we have abstained on all of them. But the path is long: there will be the passage to the House, you will come back here and we will see if you will be able to change course and build an institutional alternative that starts not from the furnishings, but from the foundations; that starts from a reform of the system of representativeness, from a system of direct election of the Head of State; that is discussed of an electoral, the current one, that only we have contrasted thinking of the national good and not the balance that you all sought. That is a fact which you know very well to be true: I address you, Mr President, and the friends of the League. I know very well that colleagues 5 Stars have read perhaps more science fiction than political books. There is a famous science fiction story - I am also a reader of science fiction, there is nothing wrong with it - which presupposes a completely revolutionary institutional system. That science fiction tale says that, in a hypothetical state of the future, with the system of descending polls - today the sample is 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000 - and with increasingly scientific systems you get to identify a person who gives the answer equal to the one that would be voting. Therefore, voting is abolished and, when there is a problem, it is called that person: he is the people and he answers. I understand that the ideal system of the 5 Stars is not to have sixty or seventy people vote to decide who is a Member of Parliament, but to make one person speak, because there is no need for Parliament or even for the President of the Republic. It's just any house. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u85	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, we have always been in favour, and still are, of a reduction in the number of Members. We have always been, however, and we still are today, if this choice is part of a serious reform that at least leads to overcoming the two most serious anomalies of the Italian parliamentary system: the fact that there are two Chambers that do exactly the same things and the fact that we are the only country in the world in which a branch of Parliament does not use universal suffrage to be elected. 11:07 a.m. (PARRINS FOLLOW-UP). Neither of these two minimum conditions of seriousness is met by the measure that we are called upon to vote on today. We have always said no and say no today to choices that, rather than being part of a serious reform, are the instrument of an anti-parliamentary design and - not "o" but "e" - a very low-level electoral spot, a messy and confused propaganda monster. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, yesterday there was a general debate which had a specific characteristic, which I would like to mention: out of 83 speeches, the majority made only three of them. You're beating all kinds of records. Well, when Senator Calderoli took the floor yesterday during the debate for the reply, after not having done so to illustrate the measure, he demonstrated the inexhaustible validity of a saying that has prevailed from my side, but I think it is also known to Senator Calderoli, who says: "Harlequin confessed by mocking himself, which means that by joking one he tells the truth. Calderoli told us, quoting Nanni Moretti, that his main goal was to understand how he would be noticed more, whether silent or speaking. I thought Senator Calderoli was superior to such goals, to these wretched vanities. Having said that, however, I would like to reassure Senator Calderoli that we have noticed this, even if he did not speak at the beginning to illustrate the measure, for what he said in reply, pulling his hoe on his feet, when he said that we are called to judge not this single measure, but the package as a whole that Mr Fraccaro is proposing to us. Bravo, Senator Calderoli: we give this kind of judgment on the whole package that Mr Fraccaro proposes to us and what Minister Fraccaro - he has had the courtesy of listening to a large part of our debate - proposes to us is an anti-parliamentary package of aggression against liberal democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is an explicit and troubling plan of authoritarian turning in this country, because it is a plan that consists of a pro-active referendum done in a serious way against the prerogatives of Parliament. It is a design that consists of the will to overcome the prohibition of mandatory mandate, so that the parties become barracks. It is a draft which consists of the desire to overcome the quorum in the repealing referendum. It is also a design that nourishes itself of non-parliamentary acts: the continuous attack on independent powers; the continuous attack on the constitutional guarantee bodies; the continuous attack on the free press and on any voice that has in their eyes the guilt of being free. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is this package, Senator Calderoli and dear majority, that leads us to take a firm position on the measure under consideration, because it is the first piece of the project. The newspapers are full of the differences between the Movimento 5 Stars and the League and we are forced to talk a lot about those differences, some real, some invented. Today, however, I would like to talk not about the differences, but about the fundamental thing that unites the two parties and that is stronger than all the differences between them. Do you know what the strong thing that unites these two parties is? It is a deeply illiberal and authoritarian political culture. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And if we understand this, everything is explained: it explains why the Movimento 5 Stars goes crazy for the Venezuela of Maduro; it explains why Salvini hung out for Orbán and it explains why they both hung out for Putin. That explains it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to say, incidentally, that Salvini's position on Venezuela is precisely his position on Orbán and that the position of the Movimento 5 Star on Orbán is precisely their position on Venezuela is not credible. Let's not forget that. To me this correspondence of loving senses between Calderoli and Fraccaro struck, I mean the truth. To Senator Calderoli I would also like to say one last thing: she yesterday, without - I think - realizing it, committed a gaffe that is typical of those who have a fund of authoritarian culture, saying things in my opinion uncomfortable. On the right of Italians to vote abroad, you mentioned the principle of no taxation without representation, i.e. no taxation without representation. It was the slogan of the American settlers who in the eighteenth century democratically rebelled against the motherland who wanted to tax them without giving them representation of the British Parliament. Dear Senator Calderoli, the principle you have been inspired by is the opposite and it is no representation without taxation - that is, I do not represent you if you do not pay taxes - and this principle has been the origin of all the battles that those who opposed universal suffrage have done against democratic movements in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] Be ashamed and learn what history teaches. Shame on you, Senator Calderoli. It is a serious statement that he has made and the misunderstanding of history is typical of those who are animated by an authoritarian culture. But this provision is not only a propaganda monster: it is also a weapon of mass distraction to cover the shames that characterize this majority. And there are so many shames, and I can mention very few of them because my time is running out. The first shame is that you are sinking the Italian economy and employment in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] A few minutes ago, Istat's retail sales data came out in December: consumption is falling - it's down 0.7% in a month - and it's entirely your responsibility. You must hide the shame of the fact that you are about to save - I address the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars - Salvini from the trial on the ship Diciotti, burying all your legalist credibility forever. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have to hide the pantomime on the TAV, the messes about Venezuela, the fact that you are savagely occupying the power, and the story of Savona is the last demonstration of this. You cheerfully care about the laws and occupy every possible place of power, from RAI to Consob. You want to hide all this with weapons of mass distraction. We can't lend ourselves to this game. We had tabled amendments which would have allowed you to turn this monster into a serious reform; you have snubbed them and we have even been declared inadmissible: it was a serious decision. In the face of this decision, we do not give up: we will turn to any constitutional body that may legitimately be invoked for attention to be paid to the fact that we want to prevent the Senate and the minority in this Senate from discussing serious matters. It happened during the budget law and unfortunately it happened yesterday too. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u88	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, many of the things have already been said in my report yesterday, but the explanation of vote must absolutely be made. I am convinced that this small measure produces enormous results in terms of effectiveness. We cut the number of Members of Parliament by 345: this is an important result for Parliament itself, reducing by 230 Members and 115 Senators, including presidential nominations and reducing the number of elected persons abroad. And I quote this detail for yesterday's speeches and for Senator Parrini's speech today. Does anyone think that I might be mad at Italian citizens living abroad? [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You said it! Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). So much hat to those who left for business reasons, to do business, to reach the family. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi]] So much for a hat to the right to vote: it is right that they vote. Absolutely. I personally said that I would like them to vote, as in the United States, for Members of Parliament. The quote for which I should be ashamed, no taxation without representation, was not used by me yesterday; what I used yesterday is no taxation, no representation. So I'm going to be ashamed, but you, Senator Parrini, have to go to a ear doctor because of hearing problems. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Mr Parrini (PD). It's the same. It's the same. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). This bill, which is very popular outside this Parliament, is absolutely unpopular here. Let's be clear: 115 of us and 230 of us in the House may not come back according to the law and may concern me too, it may affect absolutely everyone. But this must not prevent us from approving it, for the simple reason that it is a right thing, which must be done. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] What I say is represented plastically by the picture of the Commissions in the House on Tuesday: I should say that they left me alone, because I was there just like a dog. Actually there was no one, unlike what happens for all other measures. [[Applause from Senator Airola.]] I have brought a text that is the synthesis of other proposals - I have presented one individually - for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians: there are that of Senators Romeo and Patuanelli and that of Senator Quagliariello. I have presented mine and I am absolutely proud: I can say that it represents the achievement of a result that I have been pursuing for twenty-nine years, it has been almost thirty years. Yesterday I remembered - as you said, President - that I had already succeeded in 2005; then the measure was rejected by a popular referendum, precisely because - as you indicated - it was included in a great reform. This has led us to propose only limited, surgical measures which, combined, will lead to an overall reform. There is, however, a reason. I want Members and senators, when they vote, to know precisely and clearly what they are voting for and to take responsibility for it before their electorate. Do you want to reduce the number of Members, yes or no? Only then, probably, will the two-thirds quorum be reached which will not allow the popular referendum on constitutional reform. However, I would almost hope that I did not reach him so that I could go before the people. [[Applause from Senator Dessì]] So, for the first time in a referendum, people will know the question they are being asked: do you want to reduce the number of Members? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I think the people's response will be plebiscytic. However, there are reasons for this. Why are we reducing the number of Members? I've identified three reasons. Firstly, there are too many of us. In the European Union, Italy is the second country by number of parliamentarians. As Senator De Petris said, we are second only to the United Kingdom, which has about 790 senators, who are right and for life, and whose title is transmitted or transmitted, because it is exhausted, even through inheritance. I would not like to compare it with the 1,442 Members of the United Kingdom. I would like to make a comparison with other Western democracies, where Italy is not the second nation by number of citizens. So, there's too many of us. The second reason, which today seems almost to be a fault, is the reduction in the costs of politics, which someone interprets as the costs of democracy. Colleagues, 345 less wages are an attack not on democracy, but on costs, which is a completely different thing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Paradoxically, however, both in the Commission and in this House, the measure has been opposed and attacked because it is passed as a simple cut in the costs of the policy and the privileges of the caste. Is this a fault? Is she populist? Should not a measure be taken because it would be a flag to be brought to the election campaign for the next election? Is that a fault? I honor being popular and populist. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am not saying this today, because during my parliamentary history - as a Member, Senator and Minister - I had the honour of cutting the number of city councillors and city councillors. This was done not because I was angry with the councillors, but because in certain realities there were more advisors than citizens of the municipality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I am honored to have cut the number of provincial councillors and councillors, because there were too many. I am honored to have forced the Regions to reduce the number of their advisors. I am honored to have cut the number of participating companies and board members over the years. Is this an attack on representative democracy? Does it seem to you that democracy has suffered in recent years? No, no one noticed anything. Citizens are just happy. The organs are leaner, they cost less and work better. The only ones who are unhappy are those who aimed at those chairs, those cadres. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I feel sorry for them. And it is the third of the reasons I quote to support the cut that is made, because leaner organs - the famous skinny horse runs stronger - and less heavy are more effective and efficient. That sounds like a sentence, but I'd like to bring, as proof of what I'm saying, the Chamber-Senate confrontation. The House is made up of twice as many MPs as the Senate and costs twice as much in terms of budget, but we do the same things; so obviously there is something wrong. I also argue that we do them a little better. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have had the experience of the House both as a Member of Parliament and as a member of the Government: every time I go to the House, with that Chamber of 630 Members, I feel like I am a referee at the center of a ball game, with all the stands full and where everyone finally understands nothing. We vote without knowing what we are going to vote on, because there are too many votes. The most practical demonstration comes from the XVII legislature, when the reform of the House and Senate Regulations is discussed, a reform that has a scope that sometimes goes beyond a constitutional reform. In the 17th legislature there were the same political majorities (in fact, the House had more numbers than the Senate) and there was the same political will. The House begins two years before the reform of its Rules of Procedure, with the result that the House does not "dive a spider out of the hole" and the Senate approves a modification of the Rules that we are still trying to apply and that works for me. So the numbers are on our side, there are no saints. This is a law which, in my opinion, is not to be adopted, more than that, must be approved, if only because at last - forgive me the joke - when Parliament meets in common session the senators will also be able to sit down, because the House will be able to contain absolutely everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u89	Please let him finish. Senator Calderoli, I've already given you some extra time; please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u90	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I shall conclude, Mr President. But mathematics is mathematics: if you use government seats, there will also be seats for the 58 great regional voters and we will all stay there. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Anyway, I vote for a convinced yes, overconvinced for the yes. Everyone will then vote for what he wants: abstain, but do not hide behind the speech of the defence of democracy, representative democracy, bicameralism and everything else. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Because those who vote no or those who abstain do so in order to defend their own fall and their own salary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u93	Mr Quagliarello (FI-BP). Mr President, representative democracy is in crisis; this is before everyone's eyes. And when representative democracy is in crisis, it needs to be reformed. It is necessary to reform it, but not to repeal it: representative democracy, with all its limitations and defects, is indeed the best form of government, especially for complex societies. She was given to die many times and has always risen from the ashes. It was given for dead when the extra-parliamentary parties were born, those who had an organization even outside Parliament. It was given for death in the 1930s, when it was believed that authoritarianism and totalitarianism were the norm. It was given for death by the singers of assemblyism in the immediate post-war period and then in 1968. She has always risen from her ashes, because she did not stop, because she questioned herself and agreed to reform herself. Let's not hide behind a finger, then. We have all proposed a reduction in the number of Members of this House, and sometimes it has also been proposed with arguments that have probably encouraged drives and outcomes that are not favourable to those who are for a liberal democracy and a representative democracy. In the posters of the last referendum campaign, those who have campaigned for the yes have urged us to vote to cut wages and armchairs: we have to tell ourselves these things because, if we do not do an examination of conscience, we all do not get to the bottom of it. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament can certainly serve to reform our Houses, to make them more streamlined, to improve their work and their representation and quality, bringing them the skills they need, because we are not omniscient and we cannot decide everything through a click on the network. These are serious reasons for wanting to reduce the number of Members. Let us be clear: this is not a problem of cadres, nor, above all, of costs. I am also addressing the majority here: it would have been enough not to take in the ministries the aspiring parliamentarians who have failed to enter these Chambers or to reduce some salaries, to save even more than you want to tell us today that you are saving with the cut of the parliamentarians. For these reasons we will not give you an alibi and we will vote in favour of this reform. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Dear friends, let us not forget, however, some aspects: we are in a parliamentary procedure, which has a certain length of time, also because it must serve to have some answers. The reduction in the number of Members must meet certain requirements: firstly, it must give a guarantee of representativeness to the Italians who are here or abroad. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Secondly, it must ensure that minorities are represented; thirdly, it must be integrated in a balanced manner with the other reforms that you are proposing. A proactive referendum is not a scandal, but we ask you: with this institution aimed at integrating or repealing representative democracy? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] That is the question that you will have to answer in the coming months, because if the proposed referendum can also be made on spending laws, we could paradoxically find ourselves faced with questions of the kind that you want to repeal the army?If it does not have limits and will be entirely alternative to Parliament's work, then your reduction in the number of Members will be a way not to reform our democracy and what we do together in this House, but to reduce what you consider to be a damage, to start repealing the parliamentary institutions and to make us look more like a regime every day, perhaps like that of Maduro that some of you would like to be equidistant. We are not equidistant, but we stand on the side of representative democracy, against any attempt to abolish it or to completely change its connotations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We shall vote in favour of this measure as an opening of credit, because this reform, if well interpreted, will be able to give more efficiency and restore prestige to that Parliament that every day you try to sully even through your propaganda and your posters. In the coming months we will see what happens and we will be able to regulate ourselves, but today we do not give you the alibi of being the only ones who want this Parliament to be able to self-form itself starting from questioning the number of people we are in here. Our yes is an opening of credit, but if this proves to be a squalid page of anti-parliamentaryism and a sort of minor boulangism, we will be the first to say it, loud and deep. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u96	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, it is good to remember that with this bill we intend to reduce the number of parliamentarians by about a third, thus adapting Italy to the other European countries and producing a saving of EUR 100 million per year and EUR 500 million per legislature. For many, this is little and I am pleased to see that many of my colleagues have - let's say - enjoyed demolishing this point. For some, saving is even irrelevant (Senator Mirabelli), while for Senator Malan, since he was very agitated about the matter by quoting Mahatma Gandhi as well, I would like to say that I notice this anxiety of his, responding to his quote, and I remind him that serenity is when what you say, what you think and what you do are in perfect harmony. Is that what it is for you, Senator Malan? It's perfect harmony for us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's perfect harmony for us. Always to refer to perfect harmony, I must note that you too, President La Russa, in your speech practically demolished this provision in words and then announced the vote in favour almost in spite, as Senator Quagliariello did, who defined this affair as one of the most squalid but then announced the positive vote because it is an opening of credit. I am pleased and I believe that your opinion is also respectable in this debate. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Caliendo]] So let us start from here, from the Senate, and we are particularly pleased, colleagues. Let's begin the path of this constitutional law that, in the event of its definitive approval, will center a historical objective - we will see it later - repeatedly failed in the previous legislatures. We interpret it as an act of absolute autonomy, independence and freedom of which - colleagues - you too will be proud one day; you of the Democratic Party thanks to us, but it's okay anyway, you will also be proud of this decrease. The important thing is to achieve the goal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a strong signal that we give the country, as well as the perfect and timely implementation of our programme on constitutional reforms, which are not secret. I have heard from many colleagues that our constitutional reform strategy has been invisible. I would like to understand what is your concept of invisibility since it is present, black and white, in the Government contract. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, proposals were put forward which were announced at the press conference. You have a very singular concept of invisibility. Having said that, we think that we are redesigning a Parliament that is more open, more modern, that can look at itself, get into question, look at its functions, think about its own functions, starting from its own composition, free of any kind of conditioning and biased interests. Otherwise, the image of a Parliament folded on itself, which closes to the needs that come from outside this House and, in a very suspicious way, could be interpreted as a protection of its own interests, which in this case coincide with the defence of the armchairs. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, it is not on that, ladies and gentlemen, that we want to convince you. We want to convince you through a timely and perfectly practicable reform that has never been carried out because we believe that constitutional reforms cannot be based on evidence of strength or even on a test of courage. There is a sharing, there is a reasoned examination of each other's reasons, but in the end it cannot be an arm-arm; so it is not about your fear, which could be interpreted as an exercise of self-conservation in this House, but it is precisely about reasoning, about what we are going to bring you to the examination we are looking at. Your reasoning on the merits, your attacks do not help in this sense because we believe that without sharing a constitutional reform can not go through. We have seen the excellent contribution that has been made to the House in the matter of referendums, on the issue of the quorum approved, which is certainly a step forward. Inexplicably in this House, with reasons that many lead back to well-otherism (this category for which it is believed that this reform is something else that prevents it), you are opposed to the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, which is the line that unites a series of legislation and studies in which you too have participated. But that is quite another reason why you oppose it. Colleagues, do we enter into the substance of this reform which, as has been said, makes Parliament more efficient and leaner? You claim that this is not the case and that this somehow triggers a counter-reform of the Regulations and the Organization and the blocking of the Commissions. All this is not true, we must return to reality and understand what is being done. At this time when we are rebuilding the country, we have often asked many citizens for an exercise and an examination of conscience on measures that require efforts in the interests of the collective good. I would like to know why, by asking the other citizens, we are not able to do this for ourselves. If we believe that a public body is too large and expensive, we will reduce it. Colleagues, why can't we do this test on ourselves? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why can't we do this about ourselves? What is the reason for creating other and outside truths and specific truths for this House? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] If consistency is the same as driving the choices, if the criterion of justice is the same, we must be able to implement them here too and so we recover credibility, that gap between politics and society that is outside. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We've reduced it a lot, and you know why? Because we have brought our parliamentary life closer to that of the citizens who are outside: we have reduced our allowances, we have abolished the vitality (which has never happened before) and now we cut the seats where we sit. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What higher example and beyond suspicion is to deprive oneself of the chair on which you have sat? There is no criticism that can be made, there is no suspicion of conflict of interest, there is no personal interest that can be put forward. The goodness and intellectual honesty of those who make this choice is enlightened. I said, however, that it is not about fear that I would like to insist on or on your attitude, because I am aware that this passage - you realize it - is of great interest to all the citizens who listen to us. In previous legislation you know that on two occasions (in 2006 and 2016) reforms have been approved up to the last step, namely the popular referendum confirmation. Well, the citizens said no (this to resume a speech that was made by you), but why did they do it? Were they opposed to the reduction in the number of Members or to a confused system of reforms that were going to upset the Constitutional Charter and which concerned only part of a choice felt by those who wanted to vote for it? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, it has been said no to a failure method and it is curious that with your amendments (I do not want to go into your refined political strategies) in a few months you have hurled against the income of citizenship, a measure that goes to the help of the weakest and gives a perspective for work and training. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] MIRABELLI (PD). We'll see about that. Mr Perilli (M5S). It takes a lot of sniffing, a lot of talent and a lot of intuition to put yourself on these positions. You are then hindering the reform of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians by introducing the principles of a reform that has been rejected by 60% of Italians: it is a masterpiece! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Some of you said that following this path we will remain a few years in the government of this country. It is certain that if you follow this path you will remain in opposition for many years, which is most dignified. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Rampi quoted the myth of Icarus. Senator Rampi, are you convinced that that myth to which you referred did not belong to President Renzi and his story? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Speak directly to the House and not to individual Members. You know that the Rules of Procedure do. Mr Perilli (M5S). Through the Presidency, I would like to ask whether Senator Rampi is convinced that the myth of Icarus that he mentioned does not belong precisely to the story of President Renzi: it is perfectly consistent with the path that has been followed, only that he probably did not want to reach the sun. I then heard Senator Pharaoh say that if we had joined, if we had voted in favour of their constitutional reform, now we would not need the League to rule. We had to make a custom-made constitutional reform so we could rule. They're all themes that aren't ours. We intend to pursue the common objective of collective well-being [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Let me also remind you of the episode of a colleague of the opposition who told me, given to the hand: Are you sure that this reform is in agreement with Movimento 5 Stars? You'd be the ones who lose the most. Here, it is precisely on this point that I answer publicly and, as I replied to him privately: we do not think of reforms that serve our personal interests. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Applause and ironic comments from the PD Group]] You are experts in this. We want reforms that pursue collective interest. That is why, President, I am announcing not only the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group, but also a vote expressed with my heart. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] [[Congratulations. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u98	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u99	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise in dissent from my Group, together with my colleague Mr Alderisi, representing the foreign constituency in which we are honoured to have been elected. You are not cutting costs with this measure, but you are cutting down spaces of democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Group]] As we have already drawn up, four senators representing the 5 and a half million Italians abroad, which are 10% of the population, are an aberration and we are very happy that the Constitutional Court will not validate this approach. It is a clear denial of the spaces of democracy. We have had a debate and there are general considerations, so we naturally turn to the majority. The political opening that Mr Quagliariello announced has a deadline; on the subject of representation and defence of the interests of Italians abroad, our Group has no hesitation. Therefore, the opening of credit, also for this reason, has a limited temporal validity to the next passage. We will continue to defend our position and continue to denounce this as an attack on democracy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u101	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u102	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, until exactly a year ago I was doing another job: I was running newspapers. During the years of my leadership, I strongly recommended that all my fellow journalists not use the word "casta" and never thought that I would be a candidate and then elected to a parliamentary assembly. I did this because I believe that politics deserves respect and that denigrating politics means disqualifying the nation, disqualifying the state and undermining the strength of all of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] There are those who have recently appealed to important categories, such as those of the State or of the people's will. President, I have never militated in social centres, I have never represented the Padan communists, I have always believed in the Homeland, in the State and I have always been moved before the Tricolor. I never thought secession could be an interesting goal for anyone, much less for the country in which I live. That is why I believe that policy deserves respect, and that is why I believe that this measure has the sole objective of further humiliating and demeaning politics, because it only justifies itself with matters of money, caste and alleged privileges. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Casini]] I believe in institutional reforms: the first act I did, once elected, was to file a bill to introduce French semi-presidency into our system. I share the line of my Group, in the sense of opening up a line of credit towards this majority and this Government, if, with a sudden resistance, they realized that cutting the number of parliamentarians is no good, but doing so in the framework of an organic reform of the State - which has been spoken of for thirty years - this would serve and would be a great novelty, a strong signal to the country and a historical objective, to use the expressions of the colleague of Movimento 5 Stars. Therefore, I will not participate in the vote and I will be ready to vote yes in the second parliamentary passage of this measure if, in the meantime, they have matured in this House and out of comforting signals that make me think of the possibility of truly reforming this state, in the real interest of the State and not for the convenience of a political part in the vicinity of forthcoming elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u103	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u104	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u105	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I will be brief because I spoke on the subject at yesterday's sitting. I confirm that I am fully in agreement with the speech you, President La Russa, have made representing the Brothers of Italy Group: I am in favour of a genuine reform that represents an efficient cost for the institutions. I have, however, found in this law an absolute lack of a constructive framework, of a project concerning federalism and presidentialism, in essence a true reform and I see in it a simple electoral move to cover the economic inefficiencies of which this majority has stained and is staining itself. It is precisely for these reasons that I shall not vote, so as not to give any alibi that would allow me to say that I am against the reduction of Members. However, this does not concern me, because my Autonomous Province of Trento is not touched, so I am above all suspicion. In any case, precisely because I do not share the electoral marches and I believe in the seriousness of politics and government action, I do not participate in the vote, I get up and I leave. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u106	I would remind myself and everyone that Article 138 of the Constitution requires two successive votes for each House at an interval of not less than three months and that they must be approved by an absolute majority, unless the conditions laid down in the Constitution for the popular referendum are further fulfilled. So we have the tranquility to start this path. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the voting by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure of the unified text of constitutional law no. 214, 515 and 805, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: "Amendments to Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament" (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 244 Senators voting 243 Majority 120 Favorable 185 Contrari 54 Absent 4]] The Senate approves in first resolution. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Carbone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u109	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, it is unacceptable that Senator Perilli accuses... [[Live comments from M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u110	Colleagues, it is useless for you to complain when someone disturbs your interventions, if you do the stadium howls as soon as you begin to speak a person who does not think like you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u111	Mr President, it is unacceptable that Senator Perilli, during his explanation of vote for the 5 Star Movement, makes a heavy accusation to the Democratic Party, that is to say to obstruct it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] in changing the Constitution. We do not stand in the way of anyone: we do our battles in defence of Parliament, in defence of the Senate, in defence of our Constitution and in defence of democracy! [[Applause from the PD Group]] We will see if he and his party vote for their seats in the vote on Salvini! We'll see about that. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u112	The next item is the debate on draft law No 881. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Garruti, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u113	Mr President, the aim of this draft law is to make electoral legislation for the Chambers neutral in relation to the number of Members of Parliament set out in the Constitution. It is a question of returning to the traditional approach whereby this discipline is always applicable, regardless of the number of members of Parliament. According to the proposed scheme, any changes in the number of Members and Senators, as laid down in Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution, will not require specific measures to harmonise electoral legislation that would otherwise be necessary to avoid problems with the functioning of the system. In this way it is ensured that Parliament is renewable at all times and, therefore, that the presidential power to dissolve the Chambers is never paralysed by a possible legislative vacuum in the electoral field. It is also recalled that the reference to the number of seats and colleges has been introduced in both unique texts on electoral matters only by Law No 165, 3 November 2017, and the changes to the electoral system of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Delegation to the Government for the determination of single and multi-named electoral colleges, while earlier electoral legislation had mechanisms that would apply regardless of the number of parliamentarians. In particular, the laws of 4 August 1993, n. 276 and n. 277, in introducing the quota of seats to be allocated in the single colleges and that to be attributed with a proportional method, referred to a percentage or a report on the total number of seats (75 and 25 per cent of the total number of deputies and three-quarters and a quarter of the senators of each region respectively), with a drafting technique that allowed the functioning of the system even in the event of a change in the number of parliamentarians. The aim of this proposal is therefore to return to an approach involving, instead of a fixed number of single seats, a fraction of the total number of Members and senators. It is understood that this mechanism can be the optimal solution for the electoral law to become flexible in relation to the variable number of parliamentarians set out in the Constitution. With the draft law under consideration, it was carried out, through the technique of the legislative novella, to replace any numerical indication relating to the single-member colleges of the districts with reference to a fraction of the total number of deputies and senators, keeping the provisions in force for every other aspect and minimizing regulatory interventions. These interventions maintain unchanged the current mixed electoral system, while retaining the percentages of the majority and proportional share currently envisaged. The same mechanism has also been applied to districts, for which the current law explicitly indicates a specific number of single colleges (Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, Valle d'Aosta and Molise). In the proposed regulatory intervention, the figure for the number of seats is replaced by a ratio with the total number of seats allocated to the constituency, from which there are numerical data which, in the absence of the constitutional change in the number of parliamentarians, are identical to those currently established, while, in the presence of a change in the number of parliamentarians, are proportionally reduced. The proposed changes to electoral legislation not only ensure the neutrality of the electoral mechanism with respect to the current regulatory framework, but also ensure its applicability and proper functioning even in the event of a reduction in the number of Members, whatever the size of this variation. This bill consists of three articles. Article 1 amends Articles 1 and 83 of the single text of the laws governing the election of the Chamber of Deputies, as provided for in the decree of the President of the Republic of 30 March 1957, No 361. The changes maintain unchanged the current electoral system, limiting themselves to identifying, for the different districts for which the law in force indicates the number of single colleges, the fractional relationship whose application returns the same numbers currently fixed. Article 2 amends Articles 1, 16-a, 17, 20 and 21-b of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Senate of the Republic, referred to in Legislative Decree No 533, with amendments that, like those operated on the single text for the election of the Chamber, maintain unchanged the current electoral system, simply by identifying, for the different districts for which the current law indicates the number of single colleges, the relationship whose application returns the same numerical values currently established. Article 3 refers the delegation to the Government with regard to the determination of the single-member colleges and multi-member colleges which may be exercised only where, within 24 months of the entry into force of this law, there has been a constitutional change aimed at reducing the number of members of the Chambers referred to in the second paragraph of Articles 56, and the second paragraph of 57 of the Constitution. The aforementioned delegation, to be exercised within sixty days of the date of entry into force of the aforementioned constitutional law, has principles and guiding criteria that reproduce the same principles as those of law n. 165 of 2017. In particular, instead of referring to fixed numbers, for the purpose of identifying the number of single and plurinomial colleges of both the Chamber and the Senate, the changes refer to the data resulting from the application of the report referred to in article 1, paragraph 2, of the respective unique texts. The text before the Assembly is the result of the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which, after a round of informal hearings and a detailed debate, concluded the examination in the referee with the approval without amendment of the text presented by Senators Perilli and others. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u114	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State High School of Vincenzo Monti in Cesena, who are attending our work, whom I thank for staying until practically the end of the session. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u115	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u116	Mr President, we are proceeding along the lines that we have criticized harshly in the last few hours. Here, in a surgical way, as has been previously defined, we continue to make significant and important changes, which are treated almost aseptically: taken one at a time with great independence and with great impossibility to evaluate, for lack of willingness to proceed to a serious confrontation, all the implications and the interrelations existing between the various measures that we are facing. Now, tell me to you, who also took part in the last parliamentary term, how important the debate and debate on the link that everyone has recognized between constitutional reforms, Parliament's reforms and electoral laws have been. We, on the other hand, in this debate, proceed as if there were no ties, as if democracy and representation in our country were untied, as if the number of deputies and senators present in these classrooms were independent of the morphology of our territory, the institutional organization, the intermediate bodies that hold its representation, from the physical, geographical and administrative borders present in our country. In our country there is a great disparity; there have been many possibilities, discussions, attempts to reduce the disparities present in our country, which are of various types, of various sizes, of various categories. Well, these disparities also exist from an electoral and political point of view. Our Constitution takes this into account, it speaks of minorities and territories that have special features. We are dealing with the issue of reducing the number of Members of Parliament, and we are saying that this is a fair thing, which is a linear cut, a proportional reduction, a reduction in costs, and then we are putting the problem, clearly before everyone's eyes, of the way in which these Members of Parliament come here: they are called elections. Elections are made with a formula: the electoral law, which transforms the votes of citizens into representatives in the Senate and in the House. It is very simple, because in representative democracy we need a formula that turns votes into representatives, the vote of an electoral body made up of millions of people into a small number of people sitting in Parliament. Now, the implications that are represented by the definition of the electoral law, so this formula, are before everyone's eyes. Today you, with this passage, want to say that it is a neutral aspect, rather that it must be neutralized, that it is not significant. Regardless of the number of Members who may have been decided (because the parliamentary process of constitutional reforms is long and must therefore be verified in practice), no matter what the electoral law is: we neutralize the formula and make it applicable regardless of the number. I believe that this is a rather singular statement, also with respect to the history of our country, to the history of the evolution of the electoral laws that have been approved. In fact, our country has been proportional for a long time; then it thought that the efficiency of the institutions should necessarily pass through a change of electoral laws, building a different relationship, more direct, between electoral citizen and elected citizen and therefore the theme of the electoral colleges and the representative of the college entered forcefully in the history of our country, through significant referendums, which led us to deal with this aspect thoroughly. However, even at that time we noticed the need to take into account the peculiarities of our territory and the representations that, from a geographical point of view, are clearly uneven but have the right, in accordance with the values contained in our Constitution, to be considered and to have representation. We have tried to give greater adequacy to the electoral system and there have been other aspects: I am thinking of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which have called into question laws that had a ratio but with a totally negative application in the facts, which we have always contested. In my view, we have made a very consistent path in the last parliamentary term: we have pursued the reform of the State and the Constitution together with the reform of the electoral law. It was a difficult and complex job, we realize that. Today you have told us that it was a wrong method and that we must proceed in a different way, doing things in an understandable way. But this complexity must be addressed and discussed, and that is what we are asking for. This complexity, today, is simplified further, on the contrary you decide not to deal with it: do we reduce the number of representatives and the electoral law? But what does electoral law mean? Do we want to deal with this and have a discussion about the relationship between elected and elected citizens? Do we want to reason on a candidate's knowledge of the size of the college? Do we want to reason that a candidate can effectively represent a territory because he has the possibility to live it and travel it in a meaningful and serious way? No, we don't care about this. Neutralizing the electoral law with respect to constitutional reform means that the electoral colleges possibly constituted would have one million inhabitants. These are absolutely improbable, indeed impossible things. There is no idea of the relationship between the citizen - what you, boys, call citizens - and the representatives. Tell us what it is, because reducing the number of representatives in Parliament without having an idea of what the relationship between citizen and elected means opening a book, writing the first page and leaving everything else blank; it means not having said anything; it means not having declared and proposed anything on the model of democracy that you want to carry forward, because you have to deal with it. It is not enough to say that enough is enough a legislative decree, as provided for by the law that remains in force, with which the Government will put into effect the redefinition of the colleges, according to what will be the number of the necessary colleges according to the representatives to be elected. This means bureaucratizing the fundamental element of representative democracy. All this is an emptying of democracy that takes place almost in the general disinterest. The draft law under consideration, in fact, is not a great flag to be planted, I realize it: on electoral law you do not make us a cinema with great media repercussions, as can be done on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. This is less important and I believe that the debate in the Commission is the same. Mr President, since my time is up, we reserve the right to speak in the explanation of vote on the amendments in order to express ourselves more precisely on the content of the measure. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u117	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u118	Mr President, as I have said several times in the debate on the reduction of the number of Members, we must look at this measure together with the draft law on the reduction of the number of Members. It is in fact the arranged combination that produces a series of very serious problems, which are not only of a technical nature, but also of a very strong political nature, since they produce, as I will demonstrate, a very high reduction in the degree of representativeness of the House and of the whole of Parliament. We could be discussing and reasoning for a long time about the implications (we have already done so), but one thing is certain: the fractional relationship of the three octaves has been applied. The stated aim of this bill is to make the law always applicable; that is, it must not happen, even in the face of a change in the number of parliamentarians, that we can find ourselves faced with the famous legislative vacuum. Apart from the fact that the vote five minutes ago is only the beginning of a path that will not be very short, because being a path of constitutional revision, it will need some passages and therefore, honestly, the haste on the application of the mathematical formula in order to adapt the current electoral law, but the vacuum will still remain, because it is obvious that it will then have to intervene on the resizing and reformulation of the colleges. Then there is another problem, which I think would have suggested another choice (but yours was not a technical choice, in my opinion it is another political choice). Since the process of constitutional reform has just begun, as I have told you several times in the Commission, you could at the same time begin a discussion of the new electoral law. Instead you have also converted to Rosatellum- bis, so much so that you consecrate it with this law. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, unless we want to affirm the principle that, in any case, it is right to reduce the pluralism of representation, should have immediately raised the question of a legislative initiative or at least of a start to debate the new electoral law, which should be adapted to this reduction. Of course, there is time, you will say. But since there is also time for the constitutional revision process, we do not understand why you wanted to bring this so-called adaptation law to the House immediately, which is not just a technical passage, because, however, I am convinced that it will remain as an electoral law producing a very complicated situation, because - I repeat - there is a reduction in the degree of representativeness of the organ. There will be a widening of the dimension of the single colleges, always with the application of the fractionary relationship of the three octaves, and the separation between representatives and representatives, which is the real issue that we face and which we will have to deepen, in the further expansion of the college will accentuate even more. We will be faced with very high-scale single-member colleges, more than the current ones, and I invite you to make an inquiry among the voters, to see if they have been aware of who they elected and who they were candidates for, because we already had an oversize of the college. Then, for what is Rosatellum- bis, that is, a mixed system between majority and proportional, what are we facing? Multi-candidates will not be touched, for example (and I have tabled an amendment in this regard) and I want to see you: without touching multi-candidates, expanding uni-nominal colleges, remaining the multi-nominal system, as a result of this law, the power of the secretariats of parties, political movements and leaders will be further expanded in deciding and allocating nominations. But perhaps it is precisely what you wish and persecute: I have no doubt that it is so for the League, which has always been such a party, but you are obviously also. Once again, the simple technical adaptation of the current electoral law to the new number of parliamentarians - reduced or even expanded, given the formula you have put in, but for now we have started the process for its reduction - will result in a contraction of democracy and representativeness, in every respect. On the one hand, in fact, the power of the secretariats, of the party leaders, of the heads of movement or of the heads of societies, will be strengthened, called as you wish; on the other hand, there will be a very strong reduction in the degree of representativeness of the organ, because at the time of the vote it will move away and fluidize further, making it almost completely non-existent, the possibility of identifying the candidate on the part of the elector and therefore of choosing in the most conscious way. What is produced? Already the Rosatellum-a system is a law that has produced many problems and a sort of indeterminateness (one of the reasons for this, in addition to the way in which it was approved, through the eight issues of trust, is also its technicality). One of the key elements of democratic electoral systems should be the certainty, for the citizen who votes, that he has given the vote to a guy, who may or may not be elected, but his vote has gone to him. The system of the Rosatellum- bis, with the famous mechanism of pinball, instead, produced paradoxical situations: in our case, this happened, for example, in Molise, with the election in a region where, among other things, we had much less votes. The pinball system, amplified by the Rosatellum- bis, technically prevents the voter from following the journey of his vote, so if he votes Zanda, he does not elect De Petris: with the Rosatellum- bis, in fact, an elector, thinking of voting Zanda, for a strange mechanism, could make a strong contribution to the election of De Petris, even if candidate on a different list or for a different Region. This mechanism is amplified by adapting to the reduction in the number of Members. One last issue - and I am not talking about it - is a serious problem in representation and pluralism. You do not touch the mechanism of the law or the thresholds, which remain those laid down by the Rosatellum bis, and that, Mr President, is also of great interest to you. The implicit thresholds become very high, above 10 percent, in some cases. This will not only result in the reduction of Members of Parliament, so we will all be more efficient: of course, perhaps two or three parties will be able to survive with this mechanism. You had to produce a law of a more proportional nature, if you wanted to guarantee the pluralism of representation and instead, with the trick of technical adaptation, you will produce what you evidently had as your goal: the reduction of parliamentarians and the reduction of representation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Petris, I was also attentive to the final part, as you invited me to do. He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u119	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we do not like this bill, we do not like the way in which you intend to amend the electoral law, we do not like the times you have dictated to proceed with this amendment, we do not like the results that would be achieved where this electoral law, as you propose it, should have been badly approved and come into force. In the previous debate someone complained that after a series of critical interventions, documentally and punctually critical, to the constitutional reform for the reduction of parliamentarians, Forza Italia announced its conditional favorable vote. Obviously, we were not careful about the general debate, in which we did not fail to point out the great shortcomings that a simple reduction of Members, not accompanied by a number of other necessary reforms that could make savings effective without affecting the prerogatives of Members and the work of Members, was useless. We have made the reduction of the costs of politics in general our battle. We could not vote against it, but our vote in favour is conditioned by the attitude that this Government and this majority will demonstrate to have in the continuation of the work to try to change the actual number of parliamentarians survivors and to face other issues such as the perfect bicameralism and like the form of state and the form of government. Only under these conditions will we repeat the vote in favour. Otherwise, we shall vote against the motion for a resolution. The same goes for electoral law. We asked you in the Commission what was the reason for the haste to dismiss quickly an electoral law which, moreover, does not invent anything, makes a horizontal cut to the so-called Rosatellum and makes it applicable to any reduction, present and future, in the number of Members. There was no need to run, also because the constitutional reform relating to the reduction of the Members you have started, at best it could see the light in a year and a half and in a year and a half there was all the time to study an appropriate electoral law, which took into account an important factor that for us is not secondary. I appeal above all to the colleagues of the League who have legitimately made a battlehorse of contact with voters and roots in the territories: with this electoral law we depersonalize the vote, there is no longer the relationship between elected and elected; the elector does not know his representative, vote for hearsay, vote for sympathy of the leaders, vote for the rooting of a party, has no direct relationship with his representative, there is an immense college. Perhaps, if this was to be or should be the electoral law that will have to regulate the next elections in the presence of the reduction of parliamentarians, there is one element missing. Perhaps it should be foreseen by law that every electorate should open a free number, through which voters can contact him, through which voters can know him, through which voters can speak, but not. I am surprised, I repeat, by the colleagues of the League who made a battlehorse of the elected-elector relationship and probably on this report they also built their electoral fortunes, while today they accept a judgment, an assessment that erases the meritocracy, cancels the availability of the chosen one, cancels his possibility of intervening on the issues. Of course, I understand, for the Movimento 5 Stars, for which there is no need for the relationship between elected and elected. We see that online competitions end with a few hundred clicks: even the one for the same political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars (which at a certain time was the relative majority party and today, fortunately, it is no longer) resolved with a few thousand votes. In other words, in a country of 60 million inhabitants there is a leader with a few thousand clicks: that is not democracy! This is a weighty democracy, which kills the true principles of democracy. This electoral law cannot be changed. We have not tabled any amendments, because this is an unchangeable electoral law, which cannot foresee any intervention. Even when we were a government force we fought against horizontal cuts, because we cannot all apply the same reduction, some things have to be cut more than others. We therefore do not agree with the guiding principle of the draft law under consideration, which merely takes the Rosatellum and says that it is cut in percentage terms, so it adapts to this and to any other reduction of Members this or other parliaments should decide in the future. For these reasons, we hope with all our strength that it will fail. We are prepared to open a serious and frank debate in the Commission on what can be the best way to establish a real, visible relationship between the elected and the electorate. The draft law under discussion does not concern minorities, it creates immense colleges, it makes parliamentarians of the salaried, who then perform only an institutional function in the parliamentary classrooms, while much of the work of the parliamentarians still takes place today on the territories, in contact with their electors, with all, even those who did not vote for that parliamentarians. You with this electoral law delete these principles. I repeat once again: I appeal to the League. Is the League the one we have known, with which we have governed, with which we have made constitutional reforms, or is that something else? It's another thing, isn't it? Has it been cricketed? Or did he give up his own battles, his own prerogatives, those who were the battlehorses of the entire center-right? How do you vote on a bill of this kind? How can one argue that a cognitive investigation on a technological platform is enough to determine who is the leader of a party, who is the head of a government, who is to be elected in a given territory? We will never be able to accept this type of massification. We are so that the relationship between elected and elected is more real, more concrete, more evident because we believe in democracy, we believe in representation, we believe in the rights of minorities. With the cut of parliamentarians you have torn the rights of Italians abroad, so you give citizenship to immigrants, but you deny it to Italians who have acquired nationality with the birth in our country, creating citizens of series A and series B. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If that is what interests you, we will not participate in this massacre of institutions. Rather, we invite you to take note of the real problems of this country. You think you have solved them with citizenship income and don't worry that for the second quarter we have a negative index of GDP growth and if the next one is negative, we will obviously be in real recession and no longer technical. Mr Malan told you about the billions of euros that will weigh in the pockets of the citizens. These are the real problems! You are only making commercials, deceiving the citizens that in this way the problems of the country will be solved. We are convinced that the time as always will be gallant man and when this honeymoon will pass, when the Italians will realize that behind these words, behind these promises, there have been unfulfilled commitments and there have been solutions that have not addressed and solved the problems, they will probably make you return to percentages that, objectively, according to my modest opinion, you deserve and not instead to that consensus that according to surveys seems, even today, you can ride. We are here, we are in no hurry, we have seen so many other leaders passing through; we have seen 40 percent melt back to 18 and 15 percent. It is probably the same fate as the 5 Star Movement and the League if it continues to follow these guidelines and principles. Good luck. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u120	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Tecnico Commerciale Statale (State Trade Technical Institute) Maria Lazzari in Dolo, in the province of Venice, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u121	Mr President, Senators and Senators, the bill before the House today, as you have all mentioned, is closely linked to the constitutional reform which provides for a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament and which will have a clear impact on electoral discipline. This reduction, once approved, would render the electoral law currently in force unenforceable and this regulatory vacuum could paralyse the power of the President of the Republic to dissolve the Chambers. The draft law we are about to vote on, therefore, serves to make the current electoral law neutral with the number of parliamentarians provided for in the Constitution and makes it always applicable, however the number of parliamentarians is fixed, whether it is lower or even, hypothetically, higher than the current one. It is therefore a purely technical change. It replaces any absolute numerical indication of the single-member colleges of the districts with the reference to a fraction of the total number of deputies and senators, preserving the provisions in force for every other aspect and minimizing regulatory interventions. Finally, there is a delegation for the Government for the new geographical determination of single and plurinomial colleges, as has always been done. Thanks to this measure, Parliament remains renewable and we will no longer have the problem of a paralyzed institutional system pending a new electoral change in the event of the dissolution of the Chambers. The first is that, in the wording approved by the constituent assembly, the number of Members of Parliament was not fixed but variable, while their relationship with the population remained fixed. Only constitutional law No. 2 of 1963 provided for a fixed number of deputies and senators. Therefore, a fixed number of deputies and senators is not a dogma and electoral law has always adapted accordingly. The second element is that the reference to an absolute number of seats and colleges was introduced by Law No 165 of 2017, commonly known as Rosatellum- bis, while, previously, the different electoral laws that followed in the Republic brought mechanisms to determine the number of colleges with a formula applied to the number of parliamentarians (think of the Mattarellum, which provided, with the system of single-member colleges, 75% of the elected with the majority system and 25% with the proportional). The measures proposed in this legislative intervention concerning the applicability of the electoral law are therefore absolutely consistent with our constitutional dictation and the tradition of our electoral laws. Fortunately, as with the reform of the number of Members, here too Parliament is moving in a limited and precise way. Only timely and targeted innovations can produce radical changes, without destroying guarantees to protect everyone. In this sense, the Movimento 5 Stars has always followed a clear line. In the program with which we presented ourselves at the 2018 elections, we highlighted that the great institutional reforms, which claim to upset the rules that are of all, for the benefit of only one party, are wrong. They intervene on the state machine in a disorganised and confused manner, with bad results. This was the mistake of previous governments and parliaments, which have developed invasive reforms of our Constitutional Charter. We all know how it ended and you have also remembered it these days: the proposals of the center-right, with Berlusconi, in 2006, and that of the center-left, with Renzi, in 2016, were clearly rejected by the Italian people, through an avalanche of no to the constitutional referendums. The Italians have rejected it and this decision must not only be respected, but also read and interpreted by this Parliament. The referendary question must be clear and one must be able to answer with a yes or a no to an atomic question. Do not take or leave in relation to a pile of measures, all put together. It is sufficient that only one of them does not like it because the voter renounces the whole package. Today we do not want to repeat the same mistake. The revision of the number of parliamentarians travels in close connection with the bill to introduce the proposed referendum, a large institute of direct democracy. If in one direction we rationalise the composition of the Chambers, for another we strengthen the role of the citizens, effectively restoring the sceptre of democracy to the citizens and the people with the instruments of direct and participatory democracy. Efficiency, representativeness and control are linked to double wire, for us. Yes, because the democracy of the delegation in white is no longer current: the citizens want to participate. It is our task to set up direct participation tools that go beyond likes on social media and give effective control and decision-making powers in an institutional way. We are convinced that direct democracy, alongside representative democracy, will be an educational tool and will improve society, improve parties, improve politicians and improve citizens as well. As you can see, colleagues and colleagues, nothing has been done at random. As in other matters (I am thinking of work, tax, security), we are also moving in an organized and synchronized way at institutional level to get the country back on track on the basis of what we promised the citizens who rejected your previous proposals for reform and last March voted the Movimento 5 Stars for change. I shall conclude, Mr President. With these measures, the reduction of the number of Members and the present amendment of the electoral law, we have a great opportunity: Parliament can show independence and credibility by reforming itself, sic et simpliciter, without safeguards or other parachutes. I hope that this will be the first step in the institutional reform season to change the quality of politics and society as a whole. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u122	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. for the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 12.47 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u123	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for the South will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-00478 on the composition of the Committee on Environmental Impact Assessment, with regard to the TAP pipeline, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u124	Mr President, the engineer Graziano Falappa was a member of the EIA Commission for the TAP (Trans Adriatic Pipeline) pipeline; an article in the online editorial "TraniLive" dated 14 June 2018 reported that the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Trani had sent the engineer Falappa back to trial, investigated for the offence of omission in legal acts in the criminal proceedings on underwater conduct, which should have carried the waste of the Trani purifier off the city coast. In addition, the engineer Graziano Falappa was involved in the investigation of Tirreno Power (thermoelectric center of Vado Ligure), as a member of the training group of the EIA commission. In the indictments he was challenged the crimes of office abuse and manslaughter aggravated by the event. At present, the state of criminal proceedings is not known, nor are there any requests for filing, acquittal or conviction against the engineer Falppa. On December 5, 2018 the Newspaper Fact published an article in which the events of the members of the EIA commissions were examined, which would authorize the great works in extension. The DAC signalled to the institutions the need to redefine the terms of inconferibility and incompatibility of tasks. Finally, it was reported that the Minister wanted to expel an engineer commissioner who had been sent back to trial by Trani's attorney. The "Gazzetta del Mezzogiorno" of 20 December 2018 reported the news of fifteen other investigated for environmental crimes that would be committed in the locality of Le Paesane di Melendugno, where 445 olive trees were explanted to make way for the trenches of the gas pipeline, and in San Basilio, also in Melendugno, where the pollution of the groundwater is assumed. Given that the EIA does not exhaust every aspect of the authorization procedure and is not suitable to give a final judgment, I ask the minister responsible to know whether it appears that the commissioner is Graziano Falappa, whether he intends to take care of his removal from office as soon as possible, whether he intends to reopen the procedure of environmental impact assessment in autotutela and, finally, whether he intends to avail himself of the guidelines of the DAC in the matter of inconferibility and incompatibility of the assignments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u125	Mr President, Senators, I answer the question on the basis of the elements communicated by the offices of the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. With reference to the questions raised, it is noted that the engineer Graziano Falappa in June 2018 was returned to trial by decree of the court of Trani for crimes of omission of office acts, default and fraud in public supplies that would have been committed as director of the works of realization of a submarine conduct of the purifier of the Municipality of Trani. The referral to trial does not involve the engineer Falppa in the role of member of the VIA-VAS commission of the Ministry of the Environment, whose appointment as member of the same commission took place by decree of the Minister of 2011. Article 18 of Ministerial Decree No 342 of 2017, unlike the previous decree relating to the organisation and operation of the Environmental Impact Verification Commission, provided, as a cause of forfeiture from the position of commissioner of the EIA-VAS commission, the referral to trial for a crime against the public administration. At the request of the Ministry of the Environment, ANAC has rendered an interpretation of the rules that provide for the forfeiture from assignments, concluding that the aforementioned article 18, in the light of its non-punitive nature, would be removed from the prohibition of retroactivity and therefore, this rule could be applied, also to the case under consideration, because of the higher public interest to the good performance and impartiality of the administration. The engineer Falappa was then subjected to preliminary investigations for the offence of office abuse in relation to some opinions rendered as member of the training group of the commission VIA-VAS, relative to the Tirreno Power thermal power plant of Vado Ligure. This criminal proceedings was filed by decree of the Savona Court of 13 October 2016. As for the press reports relating to a criminal proceeding for environmental crimes that would have been committed in the locality Le Paesane di Melendugno and in the locality San Basilio di San Foca, these are judicial events to which the Commission VIA-VAS of the Ministry is foreign. Without prejudice to the fact that the referral to judgment of the engineer Falappa for facts pertaining to the realization of the purifier of Trani has no relation to the work of the commission VIA-VAS, neither with the assessments of environmental impact relative to the plan of the gas pipeline TAP, the Ministry of the environment has asked an opinion to the Warning of the State in relation to the possibility to apply the decadence introduced from the cited article 18 of the ministerial decree n. 342 of 2017, in case of referral to judgment for crimes against the public administration, also to the assignments of member of the commission VIA-VAS, conferred before the entry into force of the same decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u126	I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u127	Mr President, we imagined that, even in the application of a judgment of the Lombardy TAR, the Ministry could invoke the possibility of suspension in self-protection. We're waiting for the state's notice to be received.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u128	Senator Maffoni has the power to illustrate the question 3-00563 on the realization of a new thermal power plant in the province of Brescia, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u129	Mr President, in the territory of the Municipality of Nave, in the province of Brescia, is installed the production complex of the company "Sviluppo SpA" of the company "Sviluppo SpA," international holding company that, born to operate mainly in the steel industry, over the years has developed at an international level diversified business in different sectors, such as energy, logistics, transport and the environment. On 6 September 2018, the company submitted an application to the Ministry for the initiation of the SEA-VIA environmental assessment procedure of the project "Implanted peaker for electricity grid balancing" pursuant to Article 27 of Legislative Decree no. 152 of 2006. The project involves the transformation of the already industrialized area into a natural gas-powered thermoelectric power plant, with the placement of two new generation generators capable of producing 300 thermal megawatts, which could produce 900,000 cubic meters of fumes containing 118 tons of carbon dioxide. It is considered that the production site concerned is part of zone D1 (existing industrial) and borders with areas with different characterizations, in particular: historical centre; residential and agricultural area; extensive forest area subject to country-environmental constraint and hydrogeological forest bond. According to recent data released by Legambiente, in 2018 in the city of Brescia were exceeded the daily limits for fine dust or ozone for one hundred and fifty days, of which 47 for PM10 and 103 for ozone, and at least 1,000 premature deaths per year are attributable to air conditions in the urban area of Brescia. In this context it is not only necessary, but also necessary, to deepen the effective impact that the work will determine in social, health and environmental terms, in order to avoid risks for the protection of the entire territory and the health of the resident population. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Strategic Environmental Assessment (VAS) are specific tools to participate in support of administrative procedures related to both individual and technically complex planning and programming, so national sector legislation explicitly provides for consultation as a way of decision-making shared in the definition of objectives and allocation of funding resources. As far as the project concerned is concerned, however, the local institutions have not been adequately involved. It is therefore called upon to know what the Minister's position is with regard to the question raised in the preamble and, in particular, whether he considers it appropriate to carry out the thermal power plant in an area already affected by pollution by fine dusts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u130	Mr President, I answer the question on the basis of the information communicated by the offices of the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, which was unable to attend today's sitting. With reference to the questions raised, relating to the project of the new natural gas thermal power plant to be carried out within the industrial plant of the company Sviluppo SpA, located in the Municipality of Nave, in which are currently carried out activities of transformation of ferrous metals, recovery and disposal of waste, is represented as follows. In September 2018, a request for the issue of the EIA measure and an integrated environmental authorisation and for a landscape authorisation was submitted by the company. The environmental impact assessment for the project is also integrated with the health impact assessment. As regards the state of the procedure, it should be noted that in December 2018 the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has communicated the start of the procedure to the proposers, the administrations and the entities concerned. The investigation activities are currently under way by the competent technical commission to verify the environmental impact of VIA-VAS and the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities (in addition, all documentation relating to the procedure is available on the Ministry's institutional website). The process is therefore still in progress. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Maffoni has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u131	Minister, thank you, but I am not satisfied with the answer because I believe that environmental interventions such as this cannot be dictated by local policies and logics. What is lacking at this moment is a clear environmental policy that the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea should dictate in agreement with the institutions present on the territory. Brescia is a city with a strong industrial vocation, which is doing much and much still has to do for the protection of the environment. The alarming data that I expressed in the question, which was released by Legambiente and concerning the current air conditions, tell us that this territory is at its limit and that further CO2 emissions cannot be tolerated anymore. Nobody discusses the technological capacity of some companies that today propose new plants. On the contrary, new plants are well coming, which can be improved. However, after careful evaluation and careful analysis that policy should do to protect the environment and the health of citizens (policies that, however, are totally absent at the moment), I hope that as soon as possible Minister Costa can come to Brescia and, with a proactive spirit, we can build together an ambitious environmental plan aimed at the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u132	Senator Bruzzone has the right to explain the question 3-00582 on the consistency between Italian and European legislation on the hunting calendar, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u133	Mr President, I am sorry that Mr Costa did not come to the House personally to reply. I would like briefly to remind you that, since 2001, Italy has been using data, unfortunately not truthful, inherent in the beginning of the prenuptial migratory phase of birds. It may seem unimportant, but it isn't. With the data in use, by choice ISPRA, the relapses are not insignificant. In Italy the migration of birds begins a month, a month and a half earlier than in other countries with the same latitude. Therefore, it is difficult to apply Law No 157 of 11 February 1992 on the protection of homeopathic wildlife and, therefore, we are invaded by recourse to the TAR, often and willingly proposed precisely by the Italian League of Birds Protection (LIPU), which I imagine the Minister knows well. We now have a chance to finally settle. The procedure to be followed is that indicated by article 1, paragraph 7-a, of the aforementioned law n. 157, which reads: The Minister for European Policies, in agreement with the Ministers concerned, shall forward to the European Commission all information necessary to coordinate research and work on the protection, management and use of wildlife, as well as on the practical application of this Law. This, however, did not happen because the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea provided for itself, did not follow the procedures of the law and sent to the European Commission data - a real database - very strange, abnormal and moreover not shared by anyone, because the subjects questioned - the Regions, the Ministry of agricultural, food, forestry and tourism policies - did not share this choice, which - I repeat - is abnormal because it deviates from the whole international academic world and also from a good part of the national one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u134	Mr President, I answer the question on the basis of the information communicated by the offices of the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. With regard to the questions raised, it should be noted that the document " Key Concepts " is purely scientific and establishes the dates of end of reproduction and start of prenuptial migration for bird species in Annexes 2A and 2B to Directive 147/7/EC. The request for revision of the document by the Ministry of the Environment was accepted in 2017 and the European Commission started the process of revision of the " Key Concepts." At national level, the review procedure for the document was followed very carefully from the outset, in May 2018. The Ministry of the Environment has immediately defined with all administrations and stakeholders the process of collecting and sharing information for the preparation of the responses to be provided to the European Commission, thanks also to a multiannual involvement of the Regions, ISPRA and various stakeholders. The review process, which was also addressed by the European Commission following the comments of the Ministry of the Environment on the inconsistencies between the data of the different countries, ended in October 2018 and was carried out in full transparency. Italy has helped to support the drafting by the Convention on migratory species of an Atlas of migration, the data of which will be available in the coming months and which may be a useful tool to provide the necessary elements for the consistency of data between all Member States. It must be reiterated, however, that the Ministry has acted in compliance with the law n. 157 of 1992, which in article 1, paragraph 7-a, provides that the Ministry of the Environment periodically transmits to the European Commission all the information to this useful on the practical application of this law and of the other rules in force in this matter, limited to the provisions of Directive 2009/147/EC. The overall quality of the work of ISPRA, whose work and technicians, especially but not exclusively in the field of studies on the migration of wild birds, should be considered among the most important and qualitatively valid on the international scene. As for the inconsistencies between the data of the different countries, which do not only concern Italy, these, as already mentioned, are the result of the approach for individual states historically adopted by the European Commission. Italy has also proposed to change this approach according to the fly away model, in which the Atlas of Migration itself is heading. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Bruzzone has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u135	Mr President, I have prepared a reply because I imagined that the answer was of this kind. Article 1, paragraph 7-a, of Law No 157 of 1992 provides that periodic information must be limited to the provisions of the Birds Directive. We are talking about the Key Concepts (KC), which are not provided for in the Birds Directive. The subject is regulated by another paragraph, which provides, as reality there has been (but with little success), the involvement of the Ministry of Community policies. In fact, with the data sent by the Ministry of the Environment, we still anticipate the prenuptial migrations: now we arrive at New Year's Eve. When we went to school (me, the minister and many others, but also the kids who go to school today), they told us that in spring the birds arrive and go to nest. Now they change data and everything changes. It will seem very strange, also because these data are different from the countless scientific publications accredited in our country, some of which are also of the same ISPRA, and are equally different from the state scientific institutes (i.e. ISPRA) of France, Spain, Greece, Cyprus, Malta, Croatia and even Romania and Bulgaria. We were alone; we are alone in supporting the unsustainable, that is, in the first decade of January migratory birds go to nest. No one believes it, much less those who have worked on this subject, perhaps having in their offices posted the stickers of LIPU, because of this unfortunately I am also a direct witness. Italy is therefore at odds with the international academic world on this issue. If you have different political positions, you can tell them. If you are against it, say you are against it, but don't say that on New Year's Eve migratory birds nest, because no one believes it. We have seen this system in the past, Minister. I remember perfectly the Prodi Government, when it had an environmental minister, such as Pecoraro Scanio, who has done a lot of damage and we still see them now. These are systems we didn't like back then and we don't even like them today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u136	Senator L'Abbate has the right to explain the question 3-00585 on action to combat climate change and its effects, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u137	Mr President, kind Minister, last December in Katowice, Poland, the Conference of the Parties on Climate, COP24, was held, which represented an important juncture, as it took place at the same time as a series of deadlines linked to the timetable of the Paris Agreement, such as the publication of the first IPCC report on global warming and the launch of what is called the facilitating dialogue, in order to promote new emission reduction commitments. The IPCC presented its special report in October 2018, which for the first time assessed the impacts of climate change on the 1.5-degree target. Based on scientific evidence and data, the document has shown that man-induced global warming has already reached a degree above pre-industrial levels and is growing by approximately 0.2 degrees per decade. The Conference concluded with the approval of the Operational Manual for the implementation of the Paris Agreement, the rulebook, which established among other things the use of the new guidelines in the assessment of climate-related gases and the drawing up of a biennial emission inventory. Considering that with the climate change the glaciers are melting, causing the rise of the sea level that will reach even seven meters, as spokesperson of our territories I can only be strongly concerned. I imagine the potentially apocalyptic and disastrous impacts for our island regions, such as Sicily and Sardinia, and for those like Calabria and Puglia, which have developed their economy and urban settlements on the coasts. We also consider the effects on water resources, land and ecosystems. We have already seen the exceptional frosts that have devastated Apulian agriculture. By 2030, for example, it is possible to forecast a 30% decrease in energy requirements linked to heating in Italy and a 72% increase in air conditioning and refrigeration. I believe that being able to mitigate the effects of climate change and to govern its causes is not only a moral duty towards future generations, but also a strategic priority for the Italian national economy, I ask you to know what initiatives the Minister questioned intends to take or has already taken at national and international level to counter the consequences of global warming. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u138	The Minister for Relations with Parliament and Direct Democracy, Mr Fraccaro, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the question on the basis of the information given to it by the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea. As is well known, the Paris Agreement of December 2015 has as its long-term objective the containment of the increase in global temperature between 1.5 and 2 degrees Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels. The special report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change last October still considers it possible to limit the warming to 1.5 degrees, but only with an immediate and progressive reduction of emissions to reach their net level of zero in the global context, around the middle of the century. The preparation of the COP24 Conference focused mainly on the completion of the operational rules necessary to make the Paris Agreement effective from 2020. In this context, Italy is not only already in line with the 2020 targets, but is planning to exceed them considerably, while at the same time ensuring opportunities for growth for companies and greater environmental protection. To this end, our country is working on the National Energy and Climate Plan, which, in a perspective extended until 2030, aims to define the actions needed to achieve the ambitious targets of reducing emissions and increasing renewable energy. More specifically, the main objectives of the Plan are the elimination of coal in energy production by 2025, the reduction of at least 40% of emissions by 2030, the achievement of 32% of renewable energy on total consumption by 2030, the reduction of primary energy consumption by 32.5 per cent and the reduction of final consumption by 0.8% per year in the period 2021-2030. These objectives can be achieved through self-consumption, the progressive extension of the minimum share of renewable sources in existing buildings and the deburocratisation of procedures, the increased use of heat pumps and deep building renovations, the conversion of the existing building stock from the public one and measures to improve air quality in the Padano basin. An important role must also be recognised in the transport sector, in which the reduction of private vehicular traffic in favour of the collective one, the conversion of the bus fleet into electricity or hydrogen, the promotion of the use of biofuels and other renewable fuels and a strong push to the electric car. From the point of view of taxation, it will aim to provide incentives for renewable sources, tax deductions for energy redevelopment and recovery of the existing building stock and the thermal account for the promotion of thermal renewables and energy efficiency interventions in public administrations. Finally, it should be noted that Italy is one of the main donors of climate finance to carry out mitigation and adaptation actions in the most vulnerable countries (especially Africa, Pacific and Caribbean islands) and is in this spirit of recognition of the key role of the Adjustment Fund that the Ministry intends to continue, in the near future, to support the Fund with an additional €7 million. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u140	Senator L'Abbate has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u141	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer he has given to me, who has largely satisfied the issues I have raised. I would just like to add a little thought: often with our questions we discuss local or regional problems and perhaps global warming, sometimes, may seem a problem far from everyday life. We forget, however, that the global is closely linked to the local. Our ecosystem is complex and we create a series of positive and negative feedback rings such that, for example, the carbon dioxide of anthropic nature, emitted in a strongly industrialized atmosphere, can submerge a city like Brindisi or make disappear an island in the Pacific like the Cook Islands. In this regard, I bring back a sentence I heard in Katowice from one of the delegates from the South Pacific islands when I was there listening to the various speeches. This is an appeal to act immediately: The choices are what divides men from the animal kingdom and this, then, is not a choice is a duty. Another very beautiful moment was when a group of Polish children, called to express their views, said: Governments all over the world must prepare and implement a collective agenda. Can we move on to history as the generation that has managed to erase man's selfishness? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u142	Senator Steger has the right to explain the question 3-00560 on the non-payment to judicial officers of the shares of their former income, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u143	Mr President, Minister, given that Article 122, paragraph 1, point 2 of the decree of the President of the Republic of 15 December 1959 No 1229 provides that judicial officers shall also be paid with a percentage of the claims recovered by the Treasury on civil, criminal and administrative samples and sums taken by the Treasury as a result of the sale of the bodies of crime by 15%. This percentage is also inclusive of the fees of the helpers and judicial officers. With a recent note addressed to the Ministry of Justice, the officials of the single office of notifications, executions and protests of Bolzano and the judicial officers of the district of Trento, with reference to the expected salary as a percentage referred to in Article 122 cited, complain of the failure to pay the compensation for the first, second, third and fourth two-month 2018. Given that the non-payment of the amounts in percentages is also complained by many officials of the single office notifications, executions and protests (UNEP) of other courts of appeal of the country, it is asked to know what are the reasons for such delays and if it is not necessary to take as soon as possible initiatives aimed at the effective solution of the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u144	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u145	Mr. President, the delay in the payment of the percentage remuneration due to the judicial officers as derived from the claims recovered by the Treasury pursuant to Article 122 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 1229 of 1959, finds its cause in the need to implement the protocol referred to in article 1, paragraph 5, of Legislative Decree n. 16 of 2017 that puts to the Region Trentino-Alto Adige the forecast of the operating modalities of management of the staff transited in the roles of the Autonomous Region. This Protocol has not yet been formally adopted. A draft is currently drawn up identifying the starting date for the transfer of staff on 1 January 2018, including the staff of the notification offices, executions and protests in their regional roles. Regarding the emotion in question, it is expected that the Ministry will communicate and transfer to the Region the gross amount dependent that the same will provide to the entitled persons. Medium time, the Ministry of Justice has activated to set aside for all credits recovered in 2018 the fee due to UNEP staff pending the definitive determinations contained in the emanando protocol. In any case, this Dicastery is evaluating and reserves the possibility of following immediately the legitimate expectations of the staff, on the basis of the modalities contained in the draft of the same protocol, subject to agreement with the regional agency. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u146	Mr President, I take note of the answer and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u147	Senator Conzatti has the right to explain the question 3-00587 on the assignment of the functions of curator and liquidator to the consultants of the job, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u148	Mr President, Minister, we have put this question because we are concerned about businesses and even more about those in crisis. We thought it was a one-on-one concept for which only specialized professionals, accustomed to dealing with critical cases, could take care of and play the role of curator, judicial liquidator and commissioner. The Rordorf committee, which has drawn up the reform which you yourself approved in the Council of Ministers, has for a very long time had this same conviction. The specialization criterion was established: only doctors and lawyers who had passed the specific state exams in bankruptcy law, corporate tax law, commercial law and budgetary techniques could deal with the most sensitive cases of companies in crisis. For this reason, our astonishment was indeed great when, just a few hours after the adoption in the Council of Ministers of the legislative decree on the crisis of enterprise, we saw the enlargement of the audience of these professionals who can play these delicate and specific roles. Of course we do not say that in order to create a dispute between professions; we are pressing for companies in crisis to be better protected. The Law establishing the State Examination for Labour Consultants does not provide that such professionals will pass specific examinations in the subjects needed to deal with the issues related to the business crisis. The same recommendation and concern were expressed by the same technicians as your Ministry in the accompanying report to the Senate Justice Commission; they wrote to you, Minister, and to the whole Council of Ministers that the tasks of curator, judicial commissioner and liquidator require accounting skills, management of business activities and liquidation that do not fall within the remit of the labour consultant. We are very concerned about this and we are even more concerned because the day after the approval of this important reform in the Council of Ministers we saw Prime Minister Conte and Vice Prime Minister Di Maio go to the political collection at the assembly of labour consultants, giving a press release of the very questionable sentences. They said they were happy that they could access the curator (as if they could be accessed by decree) and the progress made by a professional order (as if the steps forward instead were not to be made and aimed at companies in crisis so that they could return to Bonis), and that they were happy to celebrate this increase of competence (as if skills were not acquired only by study and technique). We therefore wish to ask the Minister whether he intends to amend the legislation of the State examination as a labour consultant, because only after an appropriate state examination for the purpose will professionals be able to deal with what we all press, namely an industrial fabric in Bonis and driving throughout Italy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u149	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u150	Mr President, it should be borne in mind first of all that the reform of the bankruptcy rules seeks to promote solutions to the business crisis which are focused on continuing business in a conservative way, replacing the bankruptcy and social stigmatization that the term evokes with the judicial winding-up, in order to offer the entrepreneur a second opportunity, while at the same time promoting the protection of the creditor class. It is therefore of immediate evidence that the business crisis, in addition to the strictly patrimonial and managerial profile, normally involves the working relationships on which the entire business structure is based. It should not be forgotten that the entrepreneur is also an employer. This is why the principles underlying the reform include the need to harmonise crisis and insolvency management procedures with the forms of employment and income protection for employees. It follows the opportunity to assist the judge through professional figures capable of supporting, in the phase of emergence of the crisis until its desirable resolution, management choices, among which are undoubtedly in relief those related to human resources, working relationships and social shock absorbers for redundancies related to the crisis of enterprise. In other words, the maintenance of the enterprise and the safeguarding of employees are linked to each other in order to achieve the overall result to which the reform aims. Moreover, the professionalism of the consultants of the job finds confirmation in the wide range of functions that the same can already be called to carry out in our order (I remember, among all, the possibility to patronize disputes before the tax commissions, to be appointed commissioners liquidations or mayors of commercial companies) and, in any way, the discipline previews that, at the moment when the register will be operating (by 20 March 2020), the consultant of the job can be enrolled only after having positively attended a training not less than one and a half year. In conclusion, the discipline in question was simply intended to widen the spectrum of professionalism to which the judge can draw in identifying the technical figure that, in the light of the concrete case, is more suitable for the management of the business crisis, recognizing equal dignity to the primary management and property bodies than those no less stringent relative to the employment profile; not by chance, with reference to the members of the labour consultants' register, it is expressly provided that the judicial authority when conferring the task, takes into account the existence of subordinate employment relationships in place. It is therefore - I would like to say this - a greater range of options to give the judicial authority the opportunity to carve out the professional figure on the basis of the needs that there are, without taking away the possibility, in cases where the judge considers it, to identify other figures. I repeat: it is only a range of additional options and I hear myself saying that this rule, which, among other things, started its course in the last parliamentary term and which I had voted on by the opposition, turns out to have completed its path with the implementing decrees and certainly to be a step forward, not for one category or the other, but certainly for the whole world of the enterprises that needed a state that, at the time of crisis, stood alongside those enterprises and instead did not proceed to a liquidation too fast and hastily.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u151	Senator Conzatti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u152	Mr President, the Minister's answer is totally unsatisfactory, because it confirms my concerns that this reform is just a commercial, yet another election spot. When you say, Minister, it was already planned and, moreover, your own offices have made it known to you, as they have made it clear to the whole Council of Ministers, stating that the court already today, with the current bankruptcy reform, can avail itself of the power attributed by Article 49, paragraph 3, letter b) of the new Code of the crisis of enterprise, to accompany the curators (who must also know of budgetary technique) one or more experts for the performance of specific tasks. In fact, to this have always been called the consultants of the job. The enlargement that you have introduced, however, undermines and removes the value of the state exams, which attribute different qualifications, qualifications and competences to different professionalism. We're really very sorry and worried. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u153	Senator Bellanova has the right to explain the question 3-00586 on measures to support economic growth in the Mezzogiorno for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u154	Mr President, Mr Lezzi, the Lega-5 Star contract lacks the Mezzogiorno. We had noticed this and invited you not to interrupt those measures which represented a coherent strategy for the recovery and development of the Mezzogiorno. You have not listened to us: you have taken away resources, you have removed measures and you have destroyed a strategy that, not in our opinion, but in all the statistical institutes, especially the situation in the Mezzogiorno, was beginning to produce important results. With your budget law, however, you have cut over EUR 2 billion in funding to the Mezzogiorno and with these resources you have financed your propaganda, which you will probably call back in response. But I want to tell you here and to the Italian citizens: EUR 850 million of resources cut, which were intended to co-finance Community policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] ; EUR 800 million of resources from the Development and Cohesion Fund; you have not extended the tax credit for investments in capital goods to enterprises with production facilities in the Mezzogiorno (over EUR 300 million). Where were you, Minister, when you made these choices? It has been informed that, in the absence of certainty, companies do not plan, and that if companies do not plan, they do not invest [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and that if there is no programming, then there is no development and no job opportunities are generated? You have cancelled the IRAP tax credit for companies employing permanent workers. You want a plethora of people who must be at the service of your propaganda [[Applause from the PD Group]] , and instead you had a duty to reduce the costs precisely for those companies that invested and provided employment opportunities in the Mezzogiorno. Instead you have entered the bonus-malus for the purchase of the cars. Have you been informed, Minister, that you seem a little distracted, that the cars that today are penalized are the ones that buy the poorest families and that are produced in the factories of Melfi, Pomigliano and Cassino? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u155	Conclude, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u156	BELLANOVA (PD). Have you gone to tell those workers that with the propaganda choices you have made you are blowing up important investments and, consequently, important jobs in the Mezzogiorno? You, Minister, often refer to the 34 percent clause that we wanted. How do you intend to apply it, can you tell us? You are aware, you and your Government, that having understood the clause of 34 percent also for RFI and ANAS is not really a very significant step, since the ANAS - I inform you - already devotes more than 40% of the resources to the Mezzogiorno. Minister, when the operational start-up of the special economic zones (SEZs), before it is watered down with the extension to all the national territory and then loses any effectiveness and determines only a waste of resources? What measures to strengthen the welfare system, to combat educational poverty in marginal areas, to develop childcare services in the Mezzogiorno? In short, what urgent initiatives does the Government intend to take to relaunch our Mezzogiorno? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You've set up...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u157	Conclude, Senator. It took over four minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u158	BELLANOVA (PD). I have concluded, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Minister for the South, Senator Lezzi, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u159	Mr President, I will try to stay in time. Let's start with the 34 percent clause. For the honourable Member, it is certainly of little importance that we have finally made it workable because, more than a year after its inclusion, it was "fresh water" because of the other Government. Moving forward, I would like to deny this falseness of the cut on the Rotation Fund and the Development and Cohesion Fund. I would draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the Development and Cohesion Fund has been increased by EUR 4 billion in the budget law. But, as the honourable Member will know, the major problem of the Mezzogiorno, which has never been solved, is that of planning and spending. There are - and it was a crime in the last parliamentary term - several billions of dollars for incompetence in spending. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The real bet is then finally not to make propaganda, but to give new resources to those administrations that are incapable, almost all administered by the Democratic Party, especially in the regions of the South. An investment management booth was launched at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. MALPEZZI (PD). Start directing booths, but it takes money! Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. A planning centre has been set up to put itself alongside local authorities and finally spend - and spend well - those European structural funds. [[Comments from the PD Group. Applause from the M5S Group]] that for thirty years have been wasted by the irresponsibility of the ruling class, especially of the South, which now crys out for new resources, unable to spend the previous ones. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] FARAONE (PD). Gather around your house! Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. As for the stock... [[Lively protests from the PD Group.]] Mr President, if they let me answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u160	Colleagues, if you ask questions...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u161	MALPEZZI (PD). The Minister isn't answering! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, you are not a questioner. Listen to the answers, then Senator Bellanova will reply. You're welcome, Minister. Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. With regard to decontribution, I would like to remind the citizens of the Mezzogiorno, as well as the honourable Member, who was probably distracted at the end of 2014, even though they had positions of government, which removed a structural rule that was devoid of INPS and INAIL contributions and that had staked about one billion euros in the state budget (almost 80% for the South), since 1990 repealed thanks to the Renzi Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us remember these details. BITI (PD). Don't worry, don't freak out! Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. Our plan is to overcome the mantra of those who want the Movimento 5 Stars contrary to infrastructure. [[Vibrating protests and ironic applause from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). Don't get involved! Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. We want the roads, the highways, the railways, which have not been made in the South until now. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Screams and lively protests from the PD Group. Call the president back.]] D'ARIENZO (PD). Stop the rallies! FARAONE (PD). Turn on the air conditioner! Mr Lezzi, Minister for the South. Thanks to Parliament's cooperation, we will finally be able not to waste resources on useless works to achieve those that really serve the good of the country, and especially of the South. [[The Senators of the M5S Group stand up. Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Vibrating protests from the PD Group.]] VALENT (PD). Wake up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, sit down. Senator Pharaoh, please, even if the individual changes places equally. Senator Bellanova has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u162	Mr President, I was afraid of that; from this answer I was certain... [[Mr Lezzi drew the attention of the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u163	Minister, please, I'm directing the House here, so stay in your place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u164	VALENT (PD). Don't get involved! Mr Marcucci (PD). Look what you're doing, ma'am. Go home and you're rude! Mr Ferrari (PD). Shame on you! VALENT (PD). The Minister raises the crowds, it's serious! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, sit down, it's up to Senator Bellanova to talk. You're welcome. BELLANOVA (PD). Everyone exposes the education he has. FARAONE (PD). You're worse than Toninelli, and I said everything! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh again? Go on, Senator Bellanova. BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, the subject is too serious to fall... (Minister Lezzi turns his back on the PD Group.) FARAONE (PD). Listen! MALPEZZI (PD). Look at us! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Would you like to let Senator Bellanova speak? BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to you because the government is incapable of listening. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u165	You too, colleagues of the 5 Stars, calm and cold blood. We're having a question time session. We're not discussing the war. BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, today I have been assured that, without changing the laws, you have already embarked on a reverse path. Our laws say that in Italy there are forty days of electoral campaigns and, if you are able then, you make five years of Government. This government intends to make five years of campaigning and, perhaps, forty days of government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u166	[[Applause from the PD Group]] I would like to inform the Government that in these hours we are further confirmed by all the national and international institutes that there is a slowdown in our economic growth and that in the fourth quarter of 2018, despite the Christmas holidays, there is a decrease in consumption and - heard - a decrease in food consumption. If I were in the government, my wrists would tremble instead of propaganda! [[Applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. What are you talking about? CASTALDI (M5S). You left five million poor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, please. BELLANOVA (PD). Let's get back to the topic. There is no Mezzogiorno, but I would like to know from the Minister that he has not answered me, because Mrs. Minister, you have not published the three-year plan of the agency which expired on 31 January, and it is the plan through which it is made clear and made known to everyone the quality of the activities and the ways in which they are carried out in order to implement all the projects. How opaque, even though you are filling the ministries with friends and friends and people without any qualifications. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups. Protests from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u167	Senator, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u168	BELLANOVA (PD). Answer this, Minister: the Mezzogiorno is being expropriated from you. With the resources of the South you want to finance the income of citizenship, without making it clear to the citizens. Your choice is to bring pensioners from other countries to the Mezzogiorno, lowering their taxes and deporting boys and girls from the Mezzogiorno! [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u169	Thank you, Senator Bellanova. The time at your disposal is over. The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted. [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] SHOUTING FROM THE PD GROUP. Shame! Buffoon! FARAONE (PD). Go away! D'ARIENZO (PD). Auf Wiedersehen! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the sitting is still going on and so we can do some expulsions today. [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Are we gonna start throwing out any of these people? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u172	VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to bring to the attention of the House the question of Lake Massaciuccoli, in the province of Lucca, in Tuscany. It is a beautiful and spectacular lake, where there is a unique and truly extraordinary biodiversity, a part of which is subject to the park of Migliarino. So let's see what's happening to this lake. We are continuing to say to the PD, that it governs the Tuscany Region, that they are continuously causing damage to the lake through "non-activities." Our Holding Company, Elisa Montemagni, continues to remind the Tuscany Region that the damage that is being done now will continue in the future. There are therefore two important aspects to highlight, the first of which is that the fixed hunting stations, according to the decision of the Region, cannot be surrendered with acts between alive and even in donation, thus killing a hunting activity and a fantastic relationship between man and the environment, which last for a long time. This is an important issue, because this will ruin the environment. The other point to highlight, even worse than the first, is that in the part of the lake subject to the park of Migliarino, you can not do any maintenance to the scales of fishing and the barracks in which there are the boats, except through an authorization, as it was a civil residence. This leads the owners not to repair them, creating a serious degradation. Therefore we have a part of the lake, which is not subject to the park of Migliarino, which works very well and the other part instead, placed under the park, which is in continuous degradation. Fortunately there is only one year to 2020, the year in which perhaps - indeed, surely - we will take control of the Tuscany Region, to change the continuous degradation caused by PD in that Region. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u173	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u174	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u175	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor to express my displeasure in this House, caused by the news of yet another act of aggression against the staff of the National Health System. This incident took place a few days ago in the emergency department of the Hospital of Syracuse, which is the province in which I live and where I still exercise my work. During a struggle with a patient, two doctors reported injuries, one with 30-day prognosis and the other with fifteen-day prognosis. These are clearly serious facts, which have been repeated for some time now. Behind these episodes there are not only the intemperances, the rudeness and sometimes even the anguish of the patients, who must make long waits, but there is also the guilt and responsibility of those who have not known, in all these years, predict the growing need for health services. There is also the responsibility of politics, which has not understood and has not been able to predict or plan, unlike what was said earlier, interventions and health strategies to address these issues and critical issues. In particular, the criticalities that have arisen in the hospital, especially in the context of emergency and emergency, are really very worrying. Not to mention the acts of aggression that have taken place against the doctors of the Continuity Assistance, that is, the doctors of the former Medical Guard. With the current Government we are trying to solve or at least adequately address these critical issues. The Minister and the Ministry have drawn up a bill concerning the safety of workers in the health professions. We have prepared a motion that commits the Government to finding solutions to increase and increase the protection and safeguard measures for greater safety of the former Medical Guard operators. I therefore wish the Government and all of us and my colleagues in Syracuse a good job and a prompt recovery, a good return and a fruitful work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u176	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-89.ana.u177	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 12 February, at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.58 p.m.
