ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u3	He asked the President of the 8th Permanent Commission, Senator Coltori, to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 1a and 8a on draft law No 989. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u4	Mr President, the work has continued rapidly, but we have not completed it. Looking at the situation, we need another day to complete them. We therefore call for a further day to be able to present the measure to the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u7	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would not like the climate of common sense, and above all mutual respect, which is being held in the Commission to cause us to lose sight of the fact that we are faced with a request, yet again, to postpone work. As we know, at the end of the previous year, following the serious violations of Article 72 of the Constitution in the process of approving the budget law, the Democratic Party Group raised the conflict of attribution to the Constitutional Court. I would not like the fact that it has already been a month to allow us no longer to be clear why we have done so. We are convinced that the way in which the majority are working (Lega and 5 Stars) and the Government in this Parliament do not allow the individual Commissions to work properly nor to respect the prerogatives of all Members. From this point of view, the call of the Constitutional Court, following our appeal, was clear. We cannot help but stress, even on this decree-law, the inadequacy of the way in which this branch of Parliament works. The majority wanted to force and schedule a calendar that, as on all other occasions, was unable to comply. Among other things, it has burdened a further heterogeneity, in an absolutely decompose way, a decree-law that should theoretically present a certain homogeneity of matter. Since the majority cannot fail to adopt such a way of working, there is no political knot in the Commission's process: and so the situation we have raised the conflict of attribution is exactly the same. The Budgetary Committee and those responsible - in this case, constitutional affairs and public works - are in fact useless, because there are no conditions for developing a substantive reasoning that goes in the direction of resolving a political doubt, which - with delay and confusion - is dissolved exclusively by the Government. Too bad, for the umpteenth time, this will happen after the Conference of the Leaders and the Presidency of the Senate have been asked to review the agenda of the Assembly's work. I hope that the conditions will be laid down for the Presidency to consider once and for all the fact that this is not the way in which this House can work. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u10	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to start with a premise: once again, we are faced with a measure which comes to Parliament in a confusing way and which starts with the simplification label, but which will probably eventually come with that of semiomnibus, and this is a matter of substance. As for the procedure, we must give the majority and the government a change of pace. We are working constantly and continuously in the Commission. We have had the commitment by the Presidents of the two Committees of Merit, the 5 Star Movimento Parent Company and the Commission as a whole that, unlike what happened during the examination of the Stability Act, the measure will be dismissed by the Commission after having held the debate on all the amendments. This is already a great step forward, and we take note of it. Beyond the merit, on which there are certainly many things to say, and we will say it in the course of the examination of the measure, we must take note with intellectual honesty that at least from this moment begins a reversal of trend, with greater respect for the parliamentary functions and therefore also those that the representatives of the opposition must carry out. We agreed with the Presidents of the Commission, also as an opposition, that, having appreciated the circumstances, we should have moved the debate in this House to fill the Commission with content and finally give the rapporteur the mandate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u13	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, at the Conference of the Leaders, we will have the opportunity to reprogram our work better. I would like to remind you here, in order to make the House aware of this, that yesterday evening we asked the rapporteurs and the Presidents for the maximum guarantees so that we could continue to carry out the work in depth in the Commission and a change of pace and method that was profoundly different from what happened during the examination of the budget law. We all know the political nodes, there are. In order not to contribute to prolonging the debate, I conclude by wishing that it is not only about the majority or the relationship between the two government allies but that, since these are issues that concern everyone, there is also the possibility today of deepening and making a contribution from the Commissions. This is the only way to restore the smooth functioning of the work and the centrality of Parliament's committees.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, since there are no other speeches and we have taken note of what President Coltorti has said, we can only suspend the sitting. I warn you that the Conference of Leaders will meet at 10 a.m. and then we will inform you of further developments. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 a.m. and resumed at 11.09 a.m.) The Conference of Leaders has made changes to the current week's schedule in relation to the process of the Decree-Law simplifications. The debate in the Assembly on the measure will begin at tomorrow's sitting, starting at 3 p.m., to continue until its conclusion at Thursday 24 and, if necessary, Friday 25. The sessions do not include closing hours. The Minister of Justice's report on the administration of justice will be brought forward at 9.30 a.m. tomorrow, according to the times already defined. The inspection union and the question time will not take place in the current week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u15	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Wednesday 23 January h. 9.30 a.m. - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice - Drawing of law n. 989 - Decree-Law n. 135, Simplifications (expands on 12 February 2019) (from 15 a.m. on Wednesday 23) Thursday 24 " h. 9.30 a.m. Friday 25 " h. 9.30 a.m. (if necessary)]] The week from 29 to 31 January will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, February 5 h. 9,30-20 - Constitutional law no. 214 and related, Reduction of parliamentary number (first resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law no. 881, enforceability of electoral laws (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law No. 897 and related - Video surveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawings of law no. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection Union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 7, 15:00) Wednesday 6" h. 9,30-20 Thursday 7" h. 9,30]] Amendments to bill No 214 and related (Reduction of parliamentary number) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 31 January 2019. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 881 (Applicability of electoral laws) and No 881 (Applicability of electoral laws). 897 and related (Videosurveillance) will be established in relation to the work of the Commission. Report by the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 44' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 989 (Decree-Law No 135, Simplifications) (11 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 45' Minority Rapporteurs 45' Government 30' Votes 1 h. Groups 8 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 30' FI-BP 1 h. 40' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. PD 1 h. 34' FdI 52' Mixed 48' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 40' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u18	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the Conference of the Leaders, sharing with my colleagues in particular the reason why we came out not with a unanimous verdict, but with a majority. Even today, Mr Vitali has highlighted some aspects of the Commission's work on the simplification decree-law, which risks becoming one of the most complex and heterogeneous measures in the history of this legislature. For us there was no intent and we did not manifest any obstructive attitude. With our amendments, we have tried to bring our positions to the attention of the Commission and, in a very cooperative way and of course in respect of our opposition role, to work on the amendments of the majority. As always, the problem is not us: the problem is the majority, which cannot agree on some aspects of its main issues that - as already mentioned - have expanded the scope of application of the decree-simplifications, making it extremely difficult to apply and it is precisely on these issues that we have wasted time. The way in which the measure has been brought to the attention of the Commission and the House is also simple and very complicated. I would remind you that my esteemed colleague Mr Patuanelli has asked us for a sort of pact of honour in order to conclude the examination of the measure and pass it on to the House of Deputies by Wednesday afternoon. We have said yes, understanding the need for the majority, but always in the guarantee of the debate between opposition and majority. We have remained faithful to this covenant and have respected it as far as our readiness is concerned. The problem remains the difficulty, the confusional state, the deep difficulty of interaction between the two components of the majority. However, we cannot be accused of this and we cannot even find ourselves here every week saying that we are ultimately affected by it, because the timetable for this House is changing. As far as we are concerned, there is no question of reversing the order of factors on the presence of the Minister of Justice in the House and the Senate and, therefore, it is okay for us if he carries out his report first to the Senate and then to the House. It's okay to start examining the Decree-Law simplifications in all its complexity tomorrow afternoon; it's okay to use all day Thursday to work on the Decree-Law simplifications. Mr Marcucci - he will say this himself - has put the Conference of Leaders in another instance to be brought to the attention of this House. Before Minister Di Maio declares war on France [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups),]] Mr Moavero should be listened to in order to know what he intends to do or whether he has an opinion, an approved position, slightly different or totally dissonant with respect to the statements made by Mr Di Maio. All this, however, since the majority have missed their pact against oppositions, makes it very difficult to combine the timetable. Understand the consequences of the continuous break-up of the majority's parliamentary loyalty pact against oppositions: something has to change every time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, you have proposed a sitting on Friday, of course in accordance with the willingness of Minister Moavero, to understand what will happen to us and our relations with France. We agree with that, but, Mr President, we want - and with this I will finish and ask my colleagues to be patient - finally to apply the Senate Rules as they were agreed in the last parliamentary term, creating an operational alternation between the work of this House and that of the Commissions, which has not yet happened. We therefore ask that next week's timetable be confirmed, that only the Commissions work, that there be no contamination of any kind and we strongly ask the members of the majority that nothing change what has been for the umpteenth time renegotiated between the majority and the oppositions themselves. Of course, we reiterate our request for the timing of motions. I am referring to the motion I spoke about last week on the warning of the President of the Republic and the subsequent deliberation of the Constitutional Court, which opens up new glimpses of the role of all of us; the motion on autism and serious disabilities; the motion on the Committee for the Issues of Italians abroad and, of course, last but not least, on the TAV motion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u21	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I express the opposition of the Democratic Party Group to the timetable as presented without the possibility of having the Foreign Minister Moavero in this Chamber in the light of the serious, unacceptable and repeated statements of the Vice-President of the Di Maio Council towards a historical partner of Italy within the European Union, namely France, to which the other Vice-President of the Salvini Council succeeded this morning. And I say this because statements to raise zero of this kind follow statements made in the previous days in favor of yellow vests just when a medium broke even the door of a Ministry. I wonder, if in Italy at this moment they would break through the door of the Ministry of Economic Development, how would Minister Di Maio and Vice-President of the Council feel if Macron sympathized with the authors of such a gesture. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] There will certainly be an opportunity to deepen these issues when Minister Moavero will do us the courtesy to come to this House, but it is clear that we are witnessing a radical change in our country's foreign policy, which in fact betrays our national interests. When there is to be discussed in Europe about the changes to the new multiannual plan for allocating resources, which sees much less money being given under the common agricultural policy to Italian farmers and we have the possibility to recover only by allying ourselves with France, is it not a matter of national interest? Do we start the main partner in Europe that can help us recover resources? And the same goes for the relaxation of austerity. Who in Europe currently has the same interests in easing European rules? Who among the Commissioners has looked most favourably at not opening the infringement procedure against Italy but the French Commissioner? [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Unterberger]] Generally speaking, on the missions of the European Union, where there is a need to stop trafficking in transit countries, we are interested in working with France. The countries to which the new statesmen of the 5 Stars refer are transit. Go to see where migratory flows come from in Africa: not from countries where French colonialism was present, but from countries like Nigeria, which - we remind vice minister Di Maio - was not a French colonial possession. Of course, there is also competition in the African continent with us, but we are interested in cooperating on the countries of the trade from which traffickers like Niger come, confirming the mission. We want to discuss all these issues with Minister Moavero and that is why we do not agree with the timetable just announced, because there is a radical change in our foreign policy and there is a risk that tensions will grow. That is why it is unacceptable for us and it is unacceptable for us to be able to discuss it in this House. That is why we shall vote against it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u24	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy strongly supported the agenda of the House's work for the next few days, first of all because there is no scandal over the one more day of discussion in the Commission on a decree-law, which, to be honest, the Government has filled up with too many new arguments. You can do the polemic if you want. We have, however, considered that, unlike what happened during the debate on the budget law, everyone in the Commission is working in an absolutely peaceful climate this time. Therefore, it is better one more day of debate than the absence of debate, as the Government had wrongly imposed on Parliament at the time of the budget law. That is why we are in favour of the programme of Parliament's work which the President proposed to us at the Conference of Leaders. We are also very much in favour of the request to listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Moavero. And I think he's in favour, without second thoughts, of the government, too. The Democratic Party probably does not realize that they are screwing their hands in the face of the request to explain the decisive stance against certain neocolonialist attitudes of France. I want to highlight - it's not a race for the first generation, but just look on the web - that Brothers of Italy first, insistently, with Giorgia Meloni, since our September event "Atreju" tried to get the theme into the political debate. We can only be happy when our thesis appears on the lips of our political opponents, which are the members of the government of which we are not part. I address the friends of the PD: I understand your strenuous defense of whatever France does. You have always defended the Mitterrand doctrine when it prevented Baptists from being extradited to Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which still has a cover effect of numerous terrorists present in France. You defended - and I don't forget - Sarkozy's smiles with Merkel when he was teasing Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and the Bottic and Casolati senators.]] You did not perish, then, to ask how they were so opposed to Italy that - as you just said - those should be its main allies. [[Comments of Senator De Petris]] And Macron has also been hailed as a wonderful new statesman, which is not shared by the yellow vests that are mocking him in France. I understand and legitimate is the position of the left in defence of France; less legitimate is the change of a political position, absolutely negative for us, which has always seen France not contribute to the possibility of making immigration an event in some way manageable. We are absolutely convinced that immigration cannot be blocked, but must be managed. France has helped to make Italy unmanageable or difficult to manage the issue of immigration, as far as our borders are concerned, and has also helped to make Africa a place from which it is easier to escape than to try to stay and build something. For this reason we will listen with pleasure to what Minister Moavero, taking up the thesis of Brothers of Italy and Georgia Meloni, intends to say and to do on this issue. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u27	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we take note of the shift in the examination of the Decree-Law on simplification in the House, for which it is certainly not the responsibility of the opposition, and I would like to reiterate that here in this House, on the contrary, in the Commission the oppositions - certainly with regard to us, but also with regard to the others - have worked and given all their willingness and this for a simple reason, Mr President. We find the problem of trying to restore centrality to Parliament's work and to bring the work of the Commissions and also of individual Members back to the right track. There is one problem that I would like to raise here and that perhaps it is good for this House to start tackling. I am referring to the fact that in the end the decrees - and this decree-simplifications is a clear example of this - are all less than homogeneous. There would therefore be a lot to say about their constitutionality, because they start unevenly and then, as happened for the measure under consideration, they are filled with a series of contents: a problem opens up and is inserted in the first decree that passes. In particular, the Decree-Law simplifications became a hyperomnibus that has weighed more and more. This is a problem, Mr President, and I do not know when the time will come when we will also return to respect for the various rulings of the Constitutional Court on the homogeneity of the decree-laws that you, President, know perfectly well. Hence many problems arise, and to this we must add the political issues and issues that the majority have difficulty in resolving or melting in the race. That's how we've come to this point. As far as we're concerned, we don't want to be spectators. I have said this before in the Commission and I repeat it now: we want to discuss the issues that exist and which concern issues such as drills or Ires, issues that must not be a fact that concerns only the majority, but on which the debate must be full and on which we must be involved within the Commission, each with its own positions. As far as the question of the timetable is concerned, Mr President, it was natural and normal that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Moavero Milanesi, should be asked for information and should be accepted immediately, because we are facing, in foreign policy, a sort of pushy adventure, of the majority, in foreign policy. As we do this, the Franco-German axis - to be clear - is largely consolidating, since they have just signed an economic agreement in Aachen. Perhaps we should focus on this, on what it means or has meant in the management of the European Union. The point, however, is that in the face of the difficulties, once again, adventurism is chosen, it is an operation of mass distraction: when the umpteenth massacre occurred in the Mediterranean, the Movimento 5 Stars and the Vice Premier think of redirecting the whole discussion accusing France. And to President La Russa I would like to remind you that they are the same ones who until recently wanted to try to make an alliance with Macron, it is certainly not on this political side that there was sympathy with Macron. We need Parliament to debate and be informed of what is happening. We are convinced that this is an entirely instrumental operation, always to shift attention, but adventurist and dangerous, President. Maybe we really want to look into the causes of immigration and the true facts of what is happening in Africa in this House, as it would now be. We have been asking for this for a long time, so as not to continue with dangerous and false propaganda; we would like the true data, the numbers and the movements that have involved Africa. Among other things - and I repeat that they are mass distraction operations - while we are talking, they are dismantling the second refugee center, which is located here at the gates of Rome, in Castelnuovo di Porto, without warning the mayors and without knowing what is the destination of all the people in there. Therefore, we continue with a management that is absolutely, not only irrational, but inhuman and in the moment of difficulty, after that tragedy, instead of understanding that the issue of the priority of the salvation of human life is fundamental, because this makes us human, we choose, on the part of the Vice Premier, to do an operation of distraction and to direct everything towards France. This is the question which, frankly, we find unbearable. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for this House to have information on what is happening and, in addition to information, there should also be a clear position on the part of the Senate itself. Therefore, I am in favour of including this information on Friday. Since next week will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions, it seems to me that Friday is the best date. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u30	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that there is, of course, no opposition on the part of the League Group to summon Mr Moavero Milanesi to the Chamber and to listen to him about the events that have been evoked by those who have preceded me. The only observation is that we would like to prevent this from interfering further with the order of business on the simplification decree. There is also some consideration to be added. In my opinion, Mrs De Petris is quite right when she points out that, perhaps more than on the issues that have ended, for certain reasons, on the front pages of the newspapers and on which I would like to add a few small comments, it would be interesting to know what the position of the Government - and we are interested in urging it - is on the subject of the new Franco-German Treaty and, more generally, on the attitude of our French cousins and our German cousins with regard to Europe. Europe should be a multilateral project but, in reality, it is always articulated around this Franco-German axis and around what Martin Feldstein, an eminent American economist, at the end of the 1990s had somehow stigmatized as the contradiction between the French aspiration to equality and the German desire for hegemony. Here, these dynamics continue to see them in action and, in the opinion of those who speak, but with all humility, I want to point out that they seem a bit dysfunctional compared to an orderly development of the European project. They are also the basis of some tensions that emerge. I very much appreciate the fact that, at last, Commissioner Moscovici acknowledged yesterday that provocations disqualify those who make them. I think he addressed himself, when, on 13 December last year, he defined the European political situation as characterized by the advent of many small Mussolini. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] He reacted to Vice Prime Minister Salvini and did well, because this spectre of fascism, evoked in all possible sauces, certainly did not contribute to calming the climate. Therefore, we can discuss the tone with which the problems are raised and we can discuss the timing with which they are raised, but I do not think that this Government is in a position to accept stylistic lessons from a European Commission that has already shown itself to be a little incontinent in its criticism. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I also want to remember another point. In 1967 I was five years old. This information doesn't matter, except because it allows me to say that, however, in that year Omar Bongo became the president of Gabon and stayed there until 2009: for forty-two years, ten years more than the pontificate of Pius IX, which is one of the longest in history. Omar Bongo was democratically elected president of Gabon for forty-two years! Gabon is part of the Central African Economic and Monetary Community, CEMAC, which is one of the two institutions in which the so-called Franco CFA is divided. When we talk about the issues raised by Vice-Premier Di Maio, we talk about a reality that here in Italy is ignored and that obviously is not the case to face in a polemic or aggressive tone, but that is closely linked to the fate of the Eurozone. The reason is simple: just as the CFA franc (franco of the French colonies of Africa) was linked to the French franc, today the CFA franc (which became the franc of the African financial community, but changing the name, as Shakespeare taught us, a rose has the same perfume) is linked to the euro. In fact, therefore, we see a huge piece of sub-Saharan Africa attached to us and our monetary economy, and there should be some reflections in this regard. On this point too, it would be interesting to hear Mr Moavero's reflections and we certainly agree with the request of those who have expressed the desire to hear him, provided that this does not interfere with the order of business of a complex and delicate procedure, which has had a sufficiently articulated procedure and on which it would be right for the House now to express itself. That is the position of my Group. I thank you for the time you have given me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u31	On behalf of the House, I would like to greet the participants in the Master's Degree in Parliament and the public policies of the LUISS University in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u32	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposed changes to the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u35	I'm asking you to speak, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator Ferrari give the explanation of vote. No, Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business before my colleague, may I? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the order of business with regard to what? AIROLA (M5S). I would like to speak with regard to the explanation of vote on the timetable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, since when do we make explanations of vote on the calendar? There are proposals for changes to the timetable, which are then voted on: this is what we have always done; explanations of vote are not made on the timetable, but proposals.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u36	Senator Airola, the proposal was made at the time when a statement was made on the timetable: there is therefore the right of senators who request it to make an explanation of vote on the proposal that has already been proposed. I therefore call on Senator Ferrari to give an explanation of vote on the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to extend my hand to Senator Bagnai, because we have seen him extremely involved in the debate, which is exactly what we would like to do in the presence of Minister Moavero. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Although the views are different, they really reassured us of the interest, the passion and above all the opening of the League with regard to the urgency of this debate. In this regard, as well as in order to declare our support for the inclusion of this point in the timetable, I would also like to point out that we ask that this be done at the end of the work on the simplification decree-law (which will reasonably take place in the late evening of Thursday or on Friday, on which, moreover, it is scheduled to be held, if the work is not completed). In this way, in full respect of the best performance of the works possible, you can complete the examination of the said decree. I would therefore like to point out that our request is to include this debate - which is gathering the interest of several parties, including the League - at the end of the work on the simplification decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u40	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, following a brief discussion with President Romeo, I am speaking on behalf of the entire majority: we are available to hear the information of Minister Moavero, but not this week, but in the following week.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u41	There is a request for information from Minister Moavero: some have put it in a general way, in the sense that they have not indicated when it should take place. I therefore propose that Mr Moavero's request for information be put to the vote by show of hands, which should be held this week. If the vote of this House is in favour, I shall put to the vote when. It seems to me, in fact, that Senator De Petris made a general request but did not indicate when, Senator Bernini asked that the information be kept Friday morning while the Democratic Party made the request that the information be kept anyway at the end of the work, so Thursday evening or Friday.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u44	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, with a view to cooperation, I can update my request until next week, so that there is no confusion. If there is a availability for the next week, I can postpone my request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u45	Senator Bernini, next week, however, would be destined for the work of the Commissions. The next week of the Chamber is that of February 5. Do you think it's okay to wait until February 5th?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u46	I apologise to my colleagues but if the time is so long, I would prefer to maintain my request for Friday morning of this week, if we want to maintain the criterion of alternating the House-Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u49	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I would ask you to put to the vote the intention of the House to listen to Mr Moavero and then when, because I think there is no clarity. For example, I believe that even during the week devoted to the Commissions we can cut out a space to listen, so I would ask you that the first vote, if possible, concerns the interest of the House, in the time it will be possible to define, to listen as soon as possible to Minister Moavero, because then it takes the availability of the minister. (Brusio).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u50	I have to put a specific request to the vote and the request was for this week of plenary work, which can end on Thursday evening or Friday morning because we have put it on the timetable, where it is necessary to continue the work, the Friday sitting and therefore the information should take place at the end of the examination of the simplification decree.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u51	You consider what order the votes must follow. I tell you that Brothers of Italy requires the presence of Minister Moavero in the times that can be agreed by the Presidency with the Minister concerned, because we cannot decide that it is Friday without even knowing if the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be in Italy or abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u52	Ultimately, that's what Senator Bagnai said.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u53	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). You will decide what to put to the vote. Brothers of Italy demand that the Assembly vote, before or after, on whether or not to obtain the presence of Minister Moavero, in the time that will be agreed by the President with the Minister concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u56	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to confirm what you have already made clear. Even after the debate in the Group of the European People's Party, we ask that an explicit, defined and very simple request be put to the vote, namely that this week, in view of the statements made by Vice-President Di Maio, in view of the statements made this morning by Vice-President Salvini and, of course, since, at this point, we must take note of a change in our country's foreign policy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should come and report to Parliament, not specifically to the Senate, as a matter of urgency. This, in keeping with the commitments we have made with the majority of the decree we are discussing in the Commission, then to follow, which means either Thursday evening or Friday. For the sake of simplicity of voting, we propose Friday, so that the Minister can tell us during the day whether and when he will come. Parliament, of course, for the Government, is not something varied and possible, but should be a priority, particularly on such important issues. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u57	You, too, Senator De Petris, agree on Friday? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u58	It seems to me that at this point the request for information has been more detailed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to include on Friday morning this week the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Enzo Moavero Milanesi, made by Senators Bernini, De Petris and Ferrari. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to include the debate on motions during the week from 5 to 7 February, tabled by Senator Bernini. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u61	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, apart from the possibility of asking for the vote to be checked, since I have raised my hand in good time - but that is the least - Members are now leaving, so I withdraw the possibility - I would like to ask for another vote. Having asked us to listen to Minister Moavero next week, although it is the week devoted to the meetings of the Commissions, probably that vote, if I had had the opportunity to speak, you would have disposed of it. I do not ask you to do that now, because I realize that it would not be correct, since many of my colleagues have already left the Chamber. It is sufficient for me to remain on the record that the Group of Brothers of Italy, entrusting it to the President, reiterates its request to have Minister Moavero in the Chamber as soon as possible, in accordance with the timetable that you will consider amending, even if you feel the Leaders, and the possibility of devoting time to this task of the Minister himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u64	FADELI (PD). Mr President, we learn that Senator Lannutti apologized for the raving statements of yesterday. However, it is impossible not to stigmatize the continuous recourse - and in recent hours we have witnessed a real escalation - to fake news heart attack of anti-Semitism, negationism and racism. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u65	I'm sorry, colleagues, but you don't hear anything, but I think it's important.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u66	FADELI (PD). Even Senator Lannotti, to explain banking control, has proposed as a source - and this is really crazy - "Protocolli dei Savi di Sion," which is the emblem of the fakes at the base of anti-Semitism. We are at the re-establishment of the most violent and unfounded prejudices, the re-establishment of an authentic false, that is, of the fake news most harbinger of hatred and death in our history, the instrument manufactured and used to persecute and eliminate in many parts of the world the people of Jewish religion, from Russian pogroms to Nazi extermination camps. Does Senator Lannotti know that in Germany the "Protocolli" - I repeat, a totally false document, created for the sole purpose of nourishing hatred against the Jews - were used by the Nazis as a license for genocide? All this is unacceptable, a few days after the Day of Memory, while our students, accompanied by the Bucci sisters, girls interned in the camps, are making a trip to the extermination camps in Auschwitz, organized by the Ministry of Education, University and Research, to know and never forget the history of the Holocaust and the tragedy of the Shoah. I think that those who sit in Parliament and represent the institutions cannot be spokesmen before the country of false, irresponsible, dangerous and discriminatory messages. We cannot - and I address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars - lead Italy and at the same time continue to destroy it, weaken it, undermine its international credibility by blows of hoaxing negationists, racist, anti-Semitic and discriminatory. Italy is a great country that does not deserve to be dragged so low, in a continuous race among you, government forces, to those who shoot the biggest, to those who spread more hatred, more negationism, more violence. Please stop now. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Take measures, Italy is at stake, our credibility, education, education and the future of the young people who look at us and who judge us for what we say in these classrooms. Please stop before it's too late. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u69	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I have asked to speak on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group in response to Senator Fedeli's speech, because we think that on such a sensitive subject, of course, we must not get away from it, but that we must also clarify certain points, precisely in respect of the delicacy of the subject you have raised. The 5 Star Movement - be it clear - firmly and peremptoryly rejects all forms of anti-Semitism, even involuntarily. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). It didn't seem like it! Mr Perilli (M5S). So he will now, as in the future. The clarity of this sentence and of these intentions, I believe, is not misunderstanding. Having said that, I believe that Senator Fedeli also knows the human and parliamentary history of Senator Lannotti. She began her speech by acknowledging that the senator apologized for the words he wrote on his post and also clarified the meaning of his error and stated in a clear and incontrovertible way that he is neither anti-Semitic, nor contrary to any kind of religious confession. At this point, I think it is necessary to take note of these excuses and not to build a theorem that extends to the politics of Movimento 5 Stars or even to what will be in the future, to the financial maneuver, to the politics of this Government, because this, yes, is intellectually incorrect. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think, Senator Fedeli, that you know the story of Senator Lannotti and speak his life, because if a person is anti-Semitic and has extreme or extremist phrases, he has always been. He has never been, so we cannot take this argument as a pretext on which - I repeat - the Movimento 5 Stars has a single line, that is to reject every form - let us say it clearly - of anti-Semitism and every form of conspiracy, every thesis, every theory disconfessed by history. It is not acceptable that, on the basis of this very serious argument, there should be a policy against the government and against the 5 Star Movement, because this has nothing to do with it. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Colleagues, I tell you with great serenity: we intervened in response, a response was necessary, the senator clarified his mistake and apologized. I believe that on this chapter, at least in this House, we must put an end to this. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u72	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I respect Senator Lannotti, a person who has often taken very strong and passionate positions on many issues, and also the fact that he has deleted his tweet. I remember that when you communicate both on television and on social media, what you communicate are the words spoken. In this case, a tweet appeared, signed by Senator Lannotti, in which basically the thesis is supported that the "Protocols of the Savi of Zion" are proof of the Jewish plot for world domination. Senator Lannutti was right to withdraw it, but it wasn't right to publish it. Similarly, since the tweet was cancelled not after ten minutes, but after more than twenty-four hours, it did not do well the movement to which the senator belongs not to say a word about it, nor to ask him to withdraw it. I respect the choice. If it was really a mistake, it was a bad mistake, but it's okay. I've known Senator Lannuti for years, and I was extremely surprised to see this tweet. Above all, though, I was surprised to see him for hours. It may happen to everyone that the hand runs away and writes a strange tweet, but after twenty-four hours that same hand should correct it. I think it is extremely serious that others have not done so. Now, even, we are being attacked because we are allowed to mention the problem. That seems to me to be too much. When he's wrong, he apologizes. And if you apologize, it means you're contrite, you don't attack the opponent because he dared stigmatize it. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] This seems to me to be exaggerated and very worrying at times like these, when a sovereign state, which has excellent relations with Italy, continues to threaten the total extermination of the Jews in Israel. This is dangerous, and it would be dangerous even if it were not the week on which the Day of Remembrance occurs. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u75	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on this issue. First of all, I would perhaps have liked to hear the apology in this House directly from the person who wrote the tweet. I find it difficult to understand how one can unintentionally write a tweet and express an opinion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is particularly difficult for mature people like all of us and for people who would have a duty to represent the nation and its convictions. I'm really worried about that tweet because 24 hours is a long time. I am concerned that the group to which the senator in question belongs might have been able to intervene much earlier in order to have him withdraw the shameful tweet he wrote. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In today's world 24 hours are many and you know it well, that you are used to taking a position and maybe to telling those wretched people that they drowned in the sea that they sought it, so much then, after, they apologize. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think we should look a little further. I see in this story the desire to wink at dangerous positions and I think it's the Group... [[Comments of the M5S Group]] ENDRIZZI (M5S). Put on your glasses! Shame on you! Mr Marcucci (PD). I would like to thank my colleague for showing his democratic conviction. I believe that the Movimento 5 Star Group should not defend the Senator, who was wrong and we learn it. I believe that the Movimento 5 Stars must apologize for a position of this dimension and gravity that has been assumed for 24 hours and for the message that, perhaps unintentionally, risks transmitting to the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u78	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, we have heard today from press reports that former Senator Stefano Esposito, the prefect of Turin and the director of the ANSA have received threats, bullets. My speech is to express solidarity and I ask that solidarity also be expressed by the whole of this House. The bullets were directed precisely to these three authorities: they are four envelopes with bullets discovered at the sorting center of the Post Office of Turin. What has happened is gruesome, we firmly condemn these vile acts of civilisation and we hope that investigators will be able to clarify and identify those responsible for these uncivilized acts as soon as possible. I would once again ask the House to express its solidarity with what has happened. [[Applause from the PD, M5S and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-22-LEG18-Senato-sed-81.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 23 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.02 p.m.
