ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u5	CIRIANI (FdI). I am speaking on the order of business, to point out that yesterday, a colleague - I believe Senator De Petris - and my colleague, Mr Buffagni, invited representatives of the Fratelli d'Italia Group to take the drug test. I would like to say publicly in this House and to you, President... President. Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt, but this doesn't seem like an intervention on the order of business. CIRIANI (FdI). It is an intervention on the order of business, if you let me finish it for 30 seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Tell me what point of the order of business you intend to take, and I will consider whether to continue or not. CIRIANI (FdI). It is to ask you and President Casellati to arrange, when and in the manner you consider appropriate, the possibility for all senators to submit, as requested by an authoritative member of the Government, to the drug test. We will all be present, we hope to see also the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars present that day to undergo the drug test. We'll all be there, President. The Senate organizes it in the day and in the manner it wants, we will be there. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u6	Senator Ciriani, I do not think this is an intervention on the order of business, but in any case we will of course report back to the Presidency and the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1633, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Granato, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u8	Mr President, this decree-law contains a series of measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency concerning the recruitment of school staff of the Ministry of Education, University and Research and research bodies, as well as on the procurement of public bodies and the certification of school teachers. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u9	Colleagues, it is also difficult for the Presidency to hear the rapporteur's words because of the buzz. At this very moment it is not compulsory to be here. If we stay in this Chamber, we must allow the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u10	Please, Senator Garnet. GRANATO, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. Article 1 - amended in several respects at first reading - provides for the indication, by 2019, of an extraordinary procedure, for qualifications and examinations, for the recruitment of 24,000 teachers in the first and second grade secondary school, reserved to precarious teachers with specific requirements of experience in state schools, as well as training. In particular, the three years of experience necessary to participate in the procedure, even not consecutive ones, can be completed before the school year 2011-2012, that is also from the school year 2008-2009, until the current school year: those who are ripening the year will be admitted subject to checking that they have actually completed the required year. Admission subject to the competition shall also apply to applicants for support posts who are registered on the current specialisation routes; the relevant reserve shall be dissolved only in the event of obtaining the relevant qualification by 15 July 2020. The service carried out on a post of support in the absence of specialization shall be considered valid for the purpose of participation in the extraordinary procedure, for the class of competition, provided that at least one year of service has been carried out in the specific class of competition or in the specific place for which it competes. The special and confidential selection procedure will be initiated at the same time as an ordinary one: a competition for qualifications and examinations. The extraordinary procedure is also intended to enable subjects with certain experience requirements to obtain a teaching qualification. Here too, the audience of subjects has been expanded. The decree-law regulates the extraordinary procedure, which will be banned at national level, but organized on a regional basis, and limited to the Regions, the competition classes and the types of places for which it is expected that in the next three school years there will be vacant and available places. In any case, the entries in the role of the winners may be arranged even later, until the list is exhausted. It will be possible to participate in the extraordinary procedure in a single region for support or for a single competition class. It will be possible to participate in both the extraordinary procedure and the ordinary competition. With regard to the recruitment mechanism for the winners of the extraordinary procedure, the decree amends the general regulatory framework by providing that 50% of the remaining posts, up to 24,000 posts for the extraordinary procedure, are allocated to the admissions in the role of the extraordinary procedure and the ordinary competition. To the teachers confirmed in role it applies what already provided by the aforementioned legislative decree n. 59 of 2017, i.e. that they are required to remain for at least another four years in the school institution where they have carried out the probationary period and that they are deleted from any other ranking in which they are enrolled. As mentioned above, the special and confidential procedure is also aimed at obtaining the qualification for teaching in the first and second grade secondary school. The skill path is open to both the winners of the extraordinary selection and those who, without being winners, pass the written tests, as well as to other subjects who do not have the requirements to participate in the extraordinary selective procedure, but have other requirements. They are expected to have a different computerized written test, but similar to that provided for those participating in the recruitment process. Admission to this procedure is reserved to persons who have completed at least three years of service in state schools, equal schools or in vocational education and training courses. All must also meet the additional requirements for participation in the recruitment procedure. At the end of the written test for the achievement of the qualification, candidates who have achieved the minimum score of seven tenths or equivalent shall be included in the appropriate lists in which those who can obtain the qualification are registered. The achievement of the qualification does not give the right to be employed by the State. This is expressly stated in the provision. Paragraphs 17 to 17-f of Article 1, inserted at first reading, provide that, starting from the school year 2020-21, for the coverage in each region of the vacant and available posts of teaching and educational staff who remain after the usual operations of entry in role, including those of the winners and the extraordinary procedure provided for in the same article, shall be carried out, at the request of the interested parties, by sliding the rankings of other Regions or Provinces. In the case, however, of competition proceedings initiated and not concluded, the respective places put into competition are however set aside and made available and cannot be covered by this mechanism. More specifically, the admissions in role take place respecting the distribution of places provided for in current legislation, i.e. 50% of places at run-out rankings (GAE), 50% of places at merit rankings of competitive procedures, with the clarification that the possible odd place is intended for competitive rankings and respecting, within the percentage destined for competitive procedures, an order of priority listed in the decree. In addition, there is a general provision, which imposes on all teachers and not only those of secondary school the five-year obligation to stay in service in the school of ownership, starting from the admissions in role for the school year 2020-2021, with simultaneous forfeiture from further rankings aimed at concluding contracts for the staff of the school sector. Paragraph 18 provides that the merit rankings and additional lists of the 2016 contest are valid for a further year. In turn, paragraph 18-a, introduced during the examination at first reading, provides that the subjects inserted in the aforementioned rankings of the 2016 contest can be inserted, on application, in an additional band to the competitions already launched also in Regions other than that pertaining to the ranking of origin. Paragraph 18-c of article 1, introduced by the Chamber, provides for the entry into office, in extraordinary way, of permanent school staff on vacant and available posts included in the rankings valid for the conclusion of contracts of indefinite duration that are in a position useful for the appointment, with consequent reduction of the authorizations already conferred in order to ban competitions. Paragraph 18-d provides for the increase of the fund "Good school" for the improvement and enhancement of school education of 7,11 million euros in 2020 and of 2,77 million euros annually from 2022. Paragraph 18-e states that the members of the groups for the territorial inclusion (GIT) of students with disabilities are no longer exempt from teaching activities, but are beneficiaries of an ancillary remuneration to be defined with a specific national contractual session. Paragraph 18-f has a cover rule, while paragraph 18-g also provides that in ordinary competitions for the recruitment of teachers in secondary schools, candidates holding the title of research doctor shall be awarded a score not less than 20% of the maximum for the qualifications. Article 1-a authorizes the launch by 2020 of a competition to cover places for the teaching of the Catholic religion which, as is well known, has not taken place for several years. In the mores of the completion of the contest it is also expected that the admissions in role will proceed using the rankings of the contest launched in 2004, the validity of which was limited to the school years between 2004-2005 and 2006-2007. Article 1-b provides for the acquisition by teaching staff of skills related to the methodologies and technologies of digital teaching and computer programming (coding). Article 1-c provides for the establishment of new provincial rankings to be used for the provision of annual supplements and those until the end of teaching activities. In addition, it differs from the school year 2019-2020 to the school year 2022-2023 from the period from which the inclusion in the school and school rankings can only take place following the achievement of the qualification and has guidelines for updating them by common place in the secondary school for the next three years of school. Article 1 (d) lays down rules governing the enforcement of judicial measures involving the forfeiture of teaching staff's employment contracts concluded with state educational institutions. In particular, the Article provides that, where the courts concerned take action after the twentieth day of the beginning of the lessons, permanent or permanent employment contracts shall be transformed into fixed-term contracts with a final date fixed at 30 June of each school year. Article 1-e makes it possible, on a transitional basis, to activate temporary educational support in municipal peer schools which are unable to find qualified teaching staff replacements. Given that the use of qualified teaching staff is one of the requirements for the recognition of school parity, the provision provides that, for the school year 2019-2020, municipal peer schools that fail to find for the purposes of qualified teaching staff complements can provide temporary educational support, drawing on the municipal rankings of educators of children's education services with a qualification suitable for working in children's services. Article 2 (1) and (2) amends the procedure for recruiting school managers. Given that the 2016 Law of Stability had provided for the recruitment of school managers to be carried out by means of a selective course-competition of training, the Decree-Law amends that provision by providing that the recruitment of school managers is carried out by means not of a course-competition, but of a selective competition for qualifications and examinations. It remains true that the procedure is organised on a regional basis for vacancies in the next three years. Teachers and educational staff of state institutions holding a degree who have completed an overall seniority in the role of membership of at least five years may participate. It is also authorised, for the initial training of school managers, to spend EUR 180,000 per year from 2021. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same Article 2 deal instead of technical managers and authorize the Ministry to launch a competition for the recruitment, from January 2021, of 59 technical managers and from 2023 of further 87 technical managers. In the meantime, the possibility of granting temporary non-general management posts of up to three years' duration for inspection functions is extended to 2020 and the authorisation of expenditure already provided for in Law No 107 of 2015 is refinanced to this end. Article 2, paragraph 5, letters a) to e), and paragraph 5-a, intervenes on the discipline dictated by the fiscal law for 2019 for the stabilization, as school collaborators, of 11.263 employees of the enterprises currently engaged in cleaning services in the schools, which have ten years of service indefinitely. In particular, the changes take place: on the date on which the internalisation of cleaning services takes effect, which is postponed from 1 January to 1 March of next year 2020; on the selective procedure, which was for titles and interviews and becomes for titles only; on the requirements for admission to selection; on the mechanism for the absorption of staff. With regard to this latter aspect, secondary procedures are provided for covering any posts remaining to the outcome of the first selective procedure, including an extraordinary mobility procedure for the school year 2020-2021 and a second selective procedure for qualifications only, reserved for the same staff, but with a requirement of only five years of service, which can be carried out, in this case, also for a fixed time. Recruitment is also authorised on a part-time basis, specifying that the relationships established on a part-time basis cannot be transformed into full-time relationships, nor can the number of working hours be increased, except in the presence of certain and stable resources. It is specified that the staff placed in office is not entitled to the recognition of the service provided as an employee of the cleaning companies. The letter f) of paragraph 5 of Article 2, inserted during the examination at first reading, instead authorizes the sliding of the ranking formed under the procedure of stabilization of the workers who hold contracts for the performance of functions corresponding to those of school collaborator activated by the provincial school office of Palermo as a result of the takeover of the State in the tasks of the local authorities. Article 2 (6) provides for a selective reserved procedure for the recruitment of staff from the general and administrative services department in schools (DSGA) through the progression of administrative assistants of roles who have performed full-time the duties of director for at least three whole school years, starting from the school year 2011/2012. The decree-law provides for the postponement, for the discipline of the procedure, to article 22, paragraph 15, of the legislative decree n. 75 of 2017, which dictated a general discipline, for the three years 2018-2020, in order to allow the public administrations to activate internal selective procedures reserved to the personnel of role for the progression between the areas. The legislative decree specifies that the progression can be admitted only personnel in possession of the qualifications required for access from outside. Article 3, paragraph 1, also excludes school managers and ATA staff - together with the teaching and educational staff of schools, which was already excluded - from the system of verification, biometrics of identity and video surveillance of accesses for the purpose of verifying compliance with the working time introduced for employees of public administrations by law n. 56 of 2019. Paragraph 2 of the same Article 3 allows municipalities to reduce or zero the share paid by families for school transport services in relation to the costs incurred, in view of the conditions of the family and on the basis of reasoned resolution, in compliance with the balance of the budget. Article 4 lays down rules for the simplification of procedures for certain purchases by universities, institutions of high artistic, musical and coreautic training and public research bodies. In particular, it is expected that some forms of centralised purchasing through Consip SpA - provided for by law - will not apply to these entities when it comes to purchases for research, technology transfer and third mission. Article 5 announces Law No 240 of 2010 as regards the duration of the national scientific qualification, which is increased from six to nine years. In addition, until 31 December 2021, the faculty granted to universities under Law No 240 to proceed with the call in the role of first and second-tier professors already in service at the same university and to use up to half of the resources available to cover the positions of role professors for second-range teachers of type B fixed-term researchers. Paragraph 1 of Article 6, amended by the Chamber, contains specific provisions for the public research bodies referred to in Legislative Decree no. 218 of 2016, for the purpose of applying the general transitional rules allowing the permanent recruitment of employees who have future relations with public administrations. The following paragraph 1-a - inserted by the Chamber - has provisions to regime that allow the permanent transformation of the relationship with the staff who carry out research and technological activities with the aforementioned bodies on the basis of a contract of employment or a research grant. Since the article 20, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No 75 of 2017 allows public administrations, in the three years 2018-2020, to assume for an indefinite time personal non-directive that possesses certain requirements, and in the same three years 2018-2020, pursuant to paragraph 2 of the aforementioned article 20, public administrations can ban, to an extent not exceeding 50 percent of the available places, competition procedures reserved for non-directive personnel who possess the requirements therein, extends, with exclusive reference to the aforementioned public research bodies, the period of time of application of the aforementioned paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 20 of Legislative Decree No 75, deferring the final term from 31 December 2020 to 31 December 2021 (Chapter 4-c, inserted by the Chamber). Consequently, institutions may engage in the recruitment referred to in paragraph 1 or ban the competitive procedures referred to in paragraph 2 below by 31 December 2021. Second, for the stabilisation procedures referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 20 above, the novels provide, with reference to the public research bodies under consideration, that the requirement of prior recruitment for a fixed time with competitive procedures - recruitment in relation to the same activities carried out and also to other public administrations - is to be fulfilled even if the subject has obtained a suitability, for the same profile or professional level, in competitive rankings in force at the date of 31 December 2017, or if he has won a specific notice or selection (as identified by the rules added by the Chamber, paragraph 4-a, first period). If there is no requirement for prior fixed-term recruitment by competitive procedures and one of the above-mentioned replacements is applied, stabilisation measures shall be carried out by means of procedures for determining eligibility (Chapter 4-a, second period). For the purposes of the requirement of the three years of service, also non-continuous, in the last eight years, dependent on the institution that proceeds to the assumption (or other institution or institution of research), also the periods of activity relative to a coordinated and continuous collaboration relationship or to a search cheque, carried out near the same institution or - as specified from the Chamber - near other public agencies of research or university, let alone - as added from the Chamber - the periods of activity inherent to co-ordinated and continuous collaborations carried out near foundations operating with the financial support of the Ministry of education, the university and the research (Chapter 4-ter). The Chamber has specified that the norms referred to in this novella on the calculation of the years have nature of authentic interpretation: they have, therefore, retroactive effect. Paragraph 1-a - inserted, as stated above, by the Chamber - lays down rules on the permanent transformation of the relationship with the staff who carry out research and technological activities at the said bodies on the basis of a contract of employment or a research grant. The institution is expected to be able to carry out such transformation, following a selective procedure for qualifications and interviews, after the entity has carried out the above activities for a period of at least three years, even if not continuous, over the last five years. The transformation must concern the same activities carried out. The procedure under consideration is allocated 50% of the resources available for recruitment at the same level. Moreover, it is expected that the transformations in question can be carried out, rather than through the appropriate selective procedure, using the rankings, where existing, of the appropriate personnel in the confidential competition procedures referred to in the aforementioned article 20, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No 75. Article 7 clarifies that the introduction of the teaching of civic education - provided by Law No 92 of 2019 from 1 September of the first school year following the date of its entry into force (5 September 2019) - does not determine the increase in the total organic budget, nor the adjustment of the staff of autonomy to the actual situations beyond the limits of the quota provided for by the current legislation. Article 8 contains different positions. First of all, it reduces, for 2019, the appropriation for the use, by universities, of teachers in service at school institutions for the tutoring activities in the degree courses in primary education sciences. Then it provides that the bonus for the valorization of merit, initially intended only for role teachers, is also intended for teachers with fixed-term contracts until the end of teaching activities (30 June) or until the end of the school year (31 August). Article 9 provides for the financial coverage of some of the provisions of the Decree-Law on charges. Article 9- bis, introduced during the examination at first reading, provides that the provisions of the decree-law are applicable in the Regions with Special Statute and in the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano only compatible with the respective Statutes and their implementing rules. Article 10 shall enter into force. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u11	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Siena, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u12	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Berutti to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u13	Mr President, we could not but present a preliminary question, because the decree-law in question introduces, at least nominally, measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency in the recruitment of school staff and of the research and certification bodies of teachers, while it is quite clear to those who know the world of school and its structural difficulties in recruiting staff that the need and urgency are not present. In the face of a serious problem, but structural, the use of the decree of urgency is therefore clearly improper and it is even more so if we consider the fact, known to all, that the school year 2019/2020 is in progress and the interventions proposed by the Government, if everything will proceed without any slowing down, may perhaps have effects only starting from the school year 2020/2021. Among the forecasts contained in the decree-law there is then the indication of an extraordinary competition procedure for teachers of the first and second grade secondary school aimed at the entry into role in the state school of personnel units. Participation in the extraordinary competition is reserved to those who have a number of requirements. In the same way as the other requirements, for those who have served in the peer schools of the national education system, participation is aimed exclusively for the purposes of certification. It is quite clear that the exclusion of teachers who have served in equal schools from participation in the extraordinary competition procedure, also for the purpose of placing in teaching roles, constitutes a violation of the principle of equality enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution and is also contrary to Article 33 of the Constitutional Charter, which provides that the Republic shall lay down general rules on education and establish state schools for all orders and grades, guaranteeing the right for institutions and individuals to establish schools and educational institutions, recognising them, in the exercise of this right, full freedom, in respect for their pupils of school treatment equivalent to that of pupils of state schools. Many other profiles are clearly incompatible with the treatment of a measure which, moreover, fully embodies the slipping of the law towards the forms and contents of an administrative act. We are not faced with a novelty, but it is necessary to highlight it because it is yet another proof, if necessary, of the lack of vision of this Government and the consequent need to dwell on the administrative aspects in order to avoid dealing with political issues. Having no political vision (or having two, which the majority do not know how to manage), the government prefers to abandon the model of the law and remain closer to an administrative act. They will tell us that they have done so in order to solve some problems in a concrete way. It is mandatory to respond, as liberals, that it is with these practices that the division of powers is called into question and at risk, a serious issue that must be raised and addressed. Similarly, the fact that in this case the profiles of necessity and urgency are not present at all must be addressed. There are also other cases and I am referring to the insane internationalisation of cleaning and safety services in schools. I want to make an inscription here, because I think it has gone unnoticed by many of my colleagues. The Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) recently issued a notice for the internalisation of 11,000 employees of enterprises without a time limit, in a general context that today employs 16,000 employees; therefore there will be 5,000 employees who will remain in the middle of a road. Companies that have structured over time, invested and indebted, will be essentially demolished with this action. Those who will be hired will probably see their salary reduced by 50 percent and all this has passed almost into absolute silence. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I note that 5,000 employees means almost half of the problems that are arising in connection with Ilva. I believe that this deserves a deep reflection, not to mention a question that we ask the Government: how will 11,000 employees from the business world be identified perfectly in the ban? I'll stop here because otherwise there would be a lot to go on. Mr President, for this reason too, it would have been more appropriate to include all the interventions in a broader reform of the school system, which would have assumed a simplification of legislation with the repeal of obsolete rules on the recruitment of teachers and a more in-depth assessment of the economic resources to be allocated to the school sector with a meritorious and dynamic view of enhancing excellence and the best professionalism. We therefore ask that the Senate decide not to proceed with the examination of bill No. 1633. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u14	He asked Senator Ciriani to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u15	Mr President, the first reason why my Group is asking that the question referred to us by Mr QP2 be voted on is because of the nature of the decree-law in our examination. We do not believe that the requirements of necessity and urgency are met for a clear reason: the school year is far from starting because the measure will only be effective with the school year 2020/2021. There was therefore all the time to be able to deepen the issues and debate, without this acceleration without practical and political sense. There are also some technical and legal issues that Mr Berutti has already mentioned earlier. The first concerns the teachers of peer schools, who were excluded from the paths that could lead them to become role teachers in schools. They were excluded from the competitions: for them there is only the possibility to be admitted to the supplements, but not to the other roles. This, in our view, clearly runs counter to Article 33 of the Constitution, which guarantees freedom of education and the possibility that, alongside public schools, equal schools exist. The adjective "paritary" will mean something: if they are equal schools, equal treatment must be guaranteed to teachers who serve within the schools themselves. The other issue on which I ask the attention of the Senate Assembly concerns those who have made their way within the often regional education and training centres, which are affiliated, financed by the Region with public money and for transparent and absolutely public purposes. These are people who have carried out their commitment as teachers within training centres, who have played a public role, evident to all, and financed by public institutions with obviously equally public aims. It is not clear why they should be excluded from these routes. The other issue concerns the Directors of General and Administrative Services (DSGA), who can only compete in the ordinary competition, but not the extraordinary one, which is currently the most important one, because it is the one that should heal consolidated positions and that risks vice versa excluding people who have worked well so far. The functions would be excluded because they do not have a specific degree, even if they have done their job well to date. But the real big question for which we are asking for a vote on the question referred to by Mr QP2 concerns, Mr President, the repeated abuse of the instrument of the urgent decree which has become a scandal. We do not even remember how many trusts this week - I repeat: this week - the House is called to vote. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u16	Colleagues, please, I urge you to reduce the buzz. You can't follow! CIRIANI (FdI). Colleagues, I believe I am not mistaken if I say that no draft law of parliamentary initiative has been passed in this House, perhaps with the exception of the law on baby-seat seats: all the others lie in the drawers of the Commissions. I wonder, therefore, what the role of Parliament is, since it has been completely censored. The decree is an unacceptable limit to the ability of parliamentarians to play the role for which they have been voted by citizens and I wonder why it makes sense to maintain the bicameralism at the moment when there is in fact a monocameralism determined by the initiative of the Government that, from time to time, decides whether to start the process of conversion of decrees-laws from the Chamber or the Senate and then assigns, from time to time, to the Chamber or the Senate the moreover partial possibility to amend, in a very contained way, the provision that approves. We are therefore faced with a monocameralism with the appearance of a fake and lame bicameralism. It is quite clear that the democratic possibilities of confrontation are thus encouraged. It also affects the legislative quality of the texts we are voting on. I am beginning to conclude - and I am sorry that President Alberti Casellati is not here at the moment - by remembering that we are voting for yet another confidence in this House 24 hours after President Alberti Casellati's appeal yesterday to Palazzo Giustiniani to political forces and institutions; an appeal for a new ethical and institutional pact between the Government and Parliament to protect dialogue, democratic confrontation and the centrality of Parliament. Obviously this appeal has fallen into the void, because we are about to vote for yet another confidence, which is a slap in the face of the possibility of senators and in general of parliamentarians to do their work well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u17	[[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u18	He asked Senator Saponara to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u19	Mr President, since this decree-law deals with issues of constitutional importance such as work and training, guaranteed and protected, respectively, in the fundamental principles and in Part I of the Constitution, in Articles 1 and 34, it is manifestly unconstitutional to have deprived one of the two branches of Parliament of the possibility of entering into the substance of the provisions in the conversion phase of this decree-law, in accordance with Article 70 of the Constitution, for which the legislative function is exercised collectively by the two chambers. The decree-law on the recruitment of school staff was born from the agreement of 24 April 2019, when the government then in office considered it necessary to respond to the legitimate expectations of overcoming the transitional phase of the school's historical precariousness: an agreement with the five largest trade union organizations, an expression of 93 percent of the entire trade union representation of the school sector. In addition, the text under consideration does not provide adequate solutions to the age-old problems experienced by school staff. The list: a solution has not been found for the problem of magisterial graduates, for teachers of unjustly discriminated religion, for school leaders, for teachers forced to work in places far from their residence, for teachers of precarious third class, for whom no special enabling procedures have been provided, which would have allowed more than 50,000 workers to continue their path towards stabilisation. The serious problem of administrative assistants, who have been acting as director of general and administrative services since 2000 to date, is also unresolved in order to overcome the situation of difficulties with regard to the endemic deficiency in the Italian school system, for which no internal selection procedure has been set up to safeguard the wealth of experience and professionalism acquired. In this respect, a derogation which exceeds the requirement to hold the title of access to the competition always for the function of Director of General and Administrative Services, would be justified because it applies to staff who have already performed the same tasks and functions, contributing to the good performance of the administration and this according to Article 97 of our Constitution. Subject to all this, the Lega Group calls for a decision, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 1633. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u20	As you are not registered to speak under Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1), Senators Ciriani and Iannone (QP2) and Senators Saponara and Romeo (QP3). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are many positive decisions in this school measure. Well the procedures reserved for the teaching staff, requalified with selective criteria that also ensure the quality of the teaching of our teaching staff, overcoming a sort of sanatoria provided by the previous Government. Very well the centrality of the ordinary competition, which will start together with the extraordinary one with a fair balance, also responding to the legitimate aspirations of our young graduates who wish to engage in the noble profession of teaching. I will focus on the stabilisation of personnel employed in the cleaning and maintenance services of schools, former LSU. Like Italy Viva, together with my colleague Mrs Sbrollini, we have presented an agenda approved in the 7th Commission, which commits the Government to take responsibility for the social, civil and economic problem for workers and workers who may be excluded from the internalisation of personnel, with particular regard to coverage for the NASPI. For those who from 1 March, as the measure establishes, will become dependent on the State indefinitely as a school worker, this rule is fundamental, because it will mean job security for themselves, their family and their community. But what is our concern? There are 16,000 cleaning workers, currently in the hands of companies and cooperatives, and 11,851 will be covered according to the resources laid down in the previous budget law, from which the legislation we are debating this morning derives. There are certain requirements for access to state recruitment: ten years of work even non-continuous, provided inclusive of 2018 and 2019; average dismissal, physical fitness, certificate of pending loads, civil and criminal fitness. Companies have already in many cases opened mobility procedures provided for in the standard and this is a first concern: those who are not employed before the stabilisation procedures will not enter stabilisation. Meanwhile, we ask the Government present here - we know the sensitivity of the Undersecretary De Cristofaro - to know as soon as possible the real data of the audience both to avoid about 5,000 redundancies (the difference is between 16,000 and 11,000), and to avoid two categories of the audience, between submerged and saved. We must also pay attention to the impact of part-time contracts, which have rightly been planned to absorb as many people as possible. In a part-time contract it is necessary to take care of the reduction of income and the non-employment of some people currently working.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u22	Forgive me, Senator Parente, but in order to continue our work, I would like to ask colleagues to lower the volume of the voice. I would also ask that the government's benches be set free, as the general debate is under way. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u23	I said that we must absolutely avoid social risks especially for some areas of the South, such as Campania and Sicily, where working conditions are even more difficult. We therefore call on the Government to pay close attention - including the Parliament will commit itself to this - to possibly carry out a coordination between MIUR, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and the MEF, the four ministries involved, to monitor the situation and possibly intervene with forthcoming legislative measures. I would like to make one final point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. With the previous Government I personally fought against biometric verification and video surveillance of civil servants who, in a first draft, were even expected for teachers; then, biometric verification and video surveillance for access for the purpose of checking working time remained only for the principals. This legislation repeals them. In fact, we do not need control regulations that have been introduced only by those who have never set foot in a school, not even as a parent. When we read about the school we must always bear in mind that the school is a community, made up of principals, professors, ATA staff, parents and pupils. The school must not be vexed, but supported and preserved, because it is the future of our humanity. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u24	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to talk about a rule in particular of this decree-law, which will be very important for the world of research in our country. I want to go back a few days, on December 3, when I was in the square with precarious researchers, many of whom my peers, some younger, all united by a great fervour, a great spirit of service and awareness. Our researchers, in fact, are a recognised excellence in the world: at European level, although we are only a little more than 6%, we are able to drive more than 8% of the major research projects. It is therefore an inestimable potential that we have and that also so much of politics blamefully and shamefully ignores, when instead this is the social and economic pivot, especially in the time we live, that of the technological revolution, of the big data, of the artificial intelligence, in which the countries that do not invest in innovation and research are destined to an irreparable decline. This is how university dispersal, social discrimination, low numbers of registered students, graduates and researchers are determined, the systemic precariousness that dominates the university, which expels even 90 percent of researchers at the end of a 12-year-long precariousness. That's why all this is a boulder that sends out the very idea of Italy and what today, with this decree-law, what we have done in recent years and that we are trying to do in a thousand difficulties is to overturn all this. What happened and we want to reverse, however, did not happen at random, because in 2010 there was a law, the Gelmini law, which led to the precariousness that exploded in the years to come. In addition to that law, there were the cuts of a government, that of center-right, not only of Berlusconi, but also of the League and Tremonti, of those who boasted that they had cut in a Council of Ministers of a few minutes a billion euros to the public university, putting it on their knees, making it a closed system, based more and more on the census, the conditions of departure, the families of belonging: nothing but merit! Inequalities, territorial gaps, formations, relationships and opportunities are increasingly concentrated in the circle of the strongest and the most protected. What about the others? Out. To graduate, then, are more and more the children of those who are graduated and only this figure is frightening, it is an insult to our Constitution. There is a society that is fakely open and fakely connected, but in reality it is full of insurmountable walls and all this has to do with cuts, definancing, marginalization from the agenda of research policy, university, the right to study, because when a country stops investing and trusting in university and research, it stops believing in itself, in a courageous and ambitious collective challenge and instead lives folded, as happens now, in a society in which the life prospects of a young person depend largely on the income and education of its parents, but it is not the society to which we will surrender. There is a huge human capital that is lost, burned. And then, President, in the plazas of precarious researchers vexed by the long years of the turnover block, by a ferocious, chronic and not physiological precariousness, there is no claim of part or corporate, but there is the future of our country, there is a reserve of the Republic, a thinker, a project Italy that lives daily, often engaged in the most technologically advanced borders. And in those workshops, in those classrooms of universities, in that world that I too, as a researcher, know well because it is my world, in those didactic modules, in those research projects there is first of all a life, there are personal stories, brilliant, enthusiastic, but very often mortified, frustrated and disillusioned. The precarious is in fact the sum of all the enemies that must be defeated, is the toxin that poisons the work, that poisons social cohesion, because it degrades both, makes them both empty, without more construct, is a subtle form of exploitation and prevarication often masked by forms that are fakely winking, fakely harmless, by fake flexibility, by fake freedom, it is the ideology for which the individual exists and not society, but it is not the truth, it is a lie. The precarious is the enemy of research, which instead needs continuity, autonomy, self-government, the freedom to experiment and to make mistakes, as happens in basic research, which needs certainties and only in this way is it able to make critical mass, to become strategic infrastructure and to do so need funding and new rules. It is what this decree-law does, which introduces a powerful rule of contrast to precariousness, which is a huge turning point. Researchers from public research institutions, who are currently experiencing extremely precarious conditions, always at risk of non-renewing, will have a protected procedure, which will allow the transformation of research grants into permanent positions. The introduction of the path of the so-called tenure track is a very important goal from the practical point of view, for the lives of thousands of people, and is very important from the political point of view, in the wake of the path of complete stabilisation, which we started with our governments in the last legislature, with the so-called Madia law and with our amendments, which provided for the allocation of the necessary funds and which introduced co-financing by the institutions, removing any alibi for the missed stabilisations. This is a necessary path, which must be completed, just as the continuation of the extraordinary recruitment plans for young researchers, which we started in the last parliamentary term, must be refinanced. On both these measures, as well as on the doctorate and the stabilisation funds, we know - and this is an open problem - that the budget law has not kept its expectations. These fronts remain open and decisive for us, until these battles are won together, to make them the priority of the political agenda, starting from the contrast to the precarious. The decree-law today at our examination on this point is, in some way, a milestone. For us it has a particular value, because since last summer the Democratic Party has deposited a special bill, in the Senate, that introduces the tenure track for the researchers who enter the university, removing them from an unsustainable condition of precariousness and canceling that norm of the so-called Gelmini law that, making of the search cheque the ordinary form of contractualization, has led to the creation of a dramatic bubble of precariousness, that has in fact barred the doors to the young researchers, sacrificing the talent of entire generations of scholars, with a huge social cost for all of us, that is an outrage, that must no longer be paid. Those doors, we're trying to open them! The contractual forest, which feeds precariousness, must be deforested, the recruitment procedure simplified and homogenized. It requires certain rights and times, Mr President, to ensure that recruitment is a normal, automatic and virtuous mechanism and not a child of exceptional circumstances and benevolence. Here is the norm that we are called to approve today and that must soon be extended to the university, because there is a generational replacement that has been waiting for too long and that is fundamental for the preservation and credibility of our country, because we live a crucial time, for which we need all the intelligence, competence and passion of our young scientists. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we allow our researchers and our young scientists to leave the streets, where they also protest for all of us, and to return to the laboratories of our Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u26	Senator Pittoni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u27	Mr President, there is no political will to revise the school decree-law. The Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars, the Democratic Party, Italy Viva and Liberi and Equal have rejected in the Commission Public Education, cultural heritage of the Senate all the amendments to the provision, confirming the intention not to touch what was approved in the Chamber of Deputies, despite the vibrated protests. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The vote of confidence will therefore give the definitive way to a text that saves precarious has turned into a precarious killing [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , with consequent general distance, starting with the main trade unions, for which it had been thought. It does not support the argument that a third reading is not possible in the House of Deputies, as it is committed to budgetary law. Regulations of both branches of Parliament allow the examination of draft laws for the conversion of decrees-laws even during the budgetary session. Thus they lay down both Rule 126 (12) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and Rule 119 (4) of the Chamber of Deputies. It is precisely in application of this rule that the Commission, which I chair, was able to examine the decree-law on schools during the budgetary session. Stop stops, in particular, special enabling routes and specialization support. The norm, in harmony with the new recruitment system provided for by Legislative Decree No. 59 of 2017 and Law No. 145 of 2018, would allow to meet both the needs represented for a long time by the teachers belonging to the third group of school rankings, who for several years have been engaged in regular teaching activities, both those of role teachers who, having their title, wish to develop their career acquiring the qualification and participating subsequently in professional mobility. The system would also allow to raise the quality of the work of the alternate staff, necessarily used to cover the posts of the absent or otherwise available holders (several thousand each year). The final special enabling path of a long series (the PAS 2013), is a different enabling academic training course from the ordinary one - but always selective in itinerant and outgoing - and intended for those who have been exercising for three years, legitimately, the teaching function in Italian public education and training, consisting of state schools, peers and vocational education and training (IeFP). In addition, many students with difficulties (and in response to their families) must be satisfied, in disregard of the constitutional dictation and of the law n. 104 of 1992, with a function that often reaches the mere assisted in place of the intended specialized teacher, which should ensure integration and inclusion of the student differently able, because of the lack, now endemic, of specialized teachers. The rule would meet the specific professional needs of the precarious teachers of the first, second and third sections of the school rankings, who do not possess the qualification of specialization, who are called annually to cover support posts due to the lack of specialists. These teachers have acquired operational practice on the ground, but lack the necessary technical and scientific preparation. The scheme makes it possible to increase the quality of teaching on places of support for teachers of the role, belonging to classes of competition made redundant or under temporary assignment on support for the lack of common teaching posts (a problem endemic in some realities), which for years have played the same role as colleagues of the role on support, without specific training. With the approval of the Chamber of Amendment Toccafondi, the school decree denies to the precarious of religion what was obtained by the qualified colleagues of secondary (FIT - Initial training and transitional internship 2018), primary and childhood (extraordinary competition 2018). Only for them, although in possession of the fitness of the ordinary, is a double selective contest, which imposes the overcoming of a written and an oral test, in fact disowning the enabling value of ecclesiastical suitability. In addition, a hard blow is struck to the winners and fit of the 2004 competition: the lucky few will be stabilized in the more of the completion of the procedure. That is, once the rankings of the new competition have been published (probably in the first half of 2021), the old lists will no longer have value. These are critical issues that could have been avoided by taking into account our amendment, which provides for the recovery of the rankings of the 2004 competition with two parallel and distinct procedures, which meet both those who have been teaching for years and young graduates. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This amendment was rejected by the majority (Movement 5 Stars, Democratic Party, Italy Viva and LEU), unleashing the rage of the precarious, millando, among other things, a non-existent unanimity in the Commission, in the House, on the proposal Toccaffondi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is also a top s to the solution for master graduates. A second and different edition of the special competition intended for those who own only one year of service in the public (which also aims to resolve the issue of the staff who served in the "spring" sections) does not affect the operation of the standard of reference and avoids the reaction of those who have already participated in the extraordinary competition provided for by the law in force, because their right of time priority in accessing the role is respected. Among other things, the reference period is extended, coinciding with the entry into force of the transformation of the permanent rankings into run-out rankings, with consequent foreclosure of the master's graduates to enter the aforementioned rankings after taking part in extraordinary qualifying courses organized by the State. The device also includes the recurrence of the safeguard measures foreseen last school year by Decree-Law No 87 of 12 July 2018, converted into Law No 96 of 9 August 2018, in order to avoid the traumatic changes that would reverberate negatively on the training activity. We get to the DSGAs that work. The de facto exclusion of administrative assistants acting as school assistants from the responsibility entrusted to them for a long time, resulting in the loss of valuable experience, puts at risk the good performance of the administration, a principle enshrined in Article 97 of the Constitution. Already the fiscal law 2018 has considered to recognize this experience with the equalization of the service carried out to the title of access to the contest. It is therefore considered necessary to have a confidential internal selection procedure - which is still planned and applied in all the administrations of the State - in order to safeguard the wealth of experience and professionalism acquired by those who have ensured the functioning of the schools in all these years. It is clear therefore the obvious contradiction to allow experienced people, but without a degree - we always speak of the administrative assistants acting as DSGA - to participate in the ordinary competition in progress and then not allow them to compete in a reserved one. In the agreement of 1 October 2019, signed by the Minister of Education Lorenzo Fioramonti with the trade unions representing the school, this possibility was considered. A final remark is on the disinterest of this majority in university education and, in particular, in the activities of university professors and researchers. Our intervention provided for the authentic interpretation of article 6, paragraph 10, of the law of 30 December 2010, n. 240, laying down rules on the organization of universities, academic staff and recruitment, as well as delegation to the Government to encourage the quality and efficiency of the university system, in the sense that professors and researchers full-time, in compliance with institutional obligations, were freely allowed, regardless of remuneration, to carry out activities of extra-institutional advice carried out in favour of private individuals, public bodies or for the purposes of justice. If our amendment had passed, these activities could have also been carried out under the VAT system, without the need for registration in professional circles, except for the health professions and, in any case, in the absence of an organization of means and persons for the conduct of free professional activities. A share of 10% of the gross compensation received by full-time professors and researchers for carrying out the activity referred to in paragraph 1 was allocated, without tax, to the activation of research posts referred to in Article 24 (3) (a) of Law No 240 of 2010, as well as doctoral grants, research grants and scholarships for university students. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I stop here, but at least another ten categories are penalized by the total disinterest shown by the majority in the House on problems affecting them not for one, two or three years, but in some cases for twenty and even twenty years. It is not possible, after all this time, that the Government on duty continues to ignore issues that concern people who have often reached the age of forty-five or fifty-five years, perhaps having the responsibility of a family and children, and are experiencing a real nightmare, especially in view of the upcoming Christmas and New Year's Eve celebrations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is unacceptable on the part of a government composed first of all of political forces that historically have presented themselves as being on the side of the weak and those in difficulty and that in this case are doing exactly the opposite. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u28	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is called to vote on a measure for the Italian school. I dare say not a measure, but the measure. This is a measure which could have been one of the most beautiful and most important measures we are debating for myself and all of us. We are talking, in fact, about my children, about the children of all, for whom there should be no political colors, there should be no barricades of thought and unequal treatment. It is a pity because, in the ways in which you have decided to treat him, you have destroyed him and humiliated him. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Putting trust, ladies and gentlemen, in this case above all means saying 'no' to the future of our children and not loving them. It means saying "no" to the possibility - unfortunately lost - to give answers to those who for the precarious, for the suspended rankings, for the lacked assignments of chair and for errors in the conduct of the contests do not see respected the rights at the base of our Constitution. Say "no" and place the barricades around a topic on which, instead, you must allow everyone to participate. You didn't say no to opposition, but you said no to your children. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That is what we condemn with regard to form, which in this case is also substance, and what substance. We now come to the substance of the measure and its technical shortcomings, which affect the human and professional lives of teachers. Many professors have sent heartfelt appeals for themes unfortunately remained unresolved in this decree: precarious professors, teachers who have suffered the unequal treatment between state and equal institutions, teachers with third year in progress, teachers caged in childhood and primary with service to secondary, and I could continue for a long time. The decree-law under consideration, once again, does not address the Gordian nodes that keep the national education system imprisoned at the last places among the great Western countries. And you see, colleagues, that this is not said by Senator Caliguri or the Forza Italia Group: the OECD says so through the Invalsi evidence. This was to be discussed in the measure, not things that should be taken for granted, but unfortunately they are not, such as: treatment of teachers, rankings, admissions and procedures. Once again we talk about precarious and extraordinary competitions, thus describing our sick school of litigation - as my colleague Aprea says in the Chamber - and of "supplentite" with values above any threshold acceptable for the number of rankings. My colleagues Berardi, Lonardo and Gallone, together with others, have drawn up a list, perhaps not exhaustive, but that takes exactly the picture of the situation: rankings when exhausted; rankings of merit; school rankings on three bands; TFA (active training courses); PAS (enabled courses); DM (magisterial degrees); teachers of the public school; teachers of support; teachers of infancy 2016; personal ATA rankings on three bands; permanent provincial ATA rankings; ATA rankings and provincial lists when exhausted. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] All this generates only confusion and conflicts between the teachers themselves. This doesn't make sense anymore and we don't need it anymore. Exhaustion of all rankings; end of the precarious in three, four or five years (the time needed); at the same time a national plan of investments for the safety of the buildings and continuous updating of the training of the students: this was needed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is a defeat of all, first of all ours, since we are unable to produce a serious and long-term project on the future of the school which, incidentally, is the future of a country. It is a defeat, above all, of the Government that, with this measure, does not address important issues for education, such as identifying a series of generational replacement modes of teaching. I am thinking of the new digital skills, but also of the enthusiasm of the role, which certainly - and I would say of course - weakens with the weight of the years. The government, instead of finding solutions, fails to deal only with the precarious: an atavistic problem of a large part of the national teaching staff. How can we think of improving the performance of our educational system, if we have teachers who are assigned to the school year started, without guarantee of continuity of teaching, without recognizing them a fair compensation for the work done? Your measure is partial and in no way will it have concrete possibilities to overcome the criticalities related to precarious staff. Thousands of our fellow citizens were waiting for a signal: women and men who hoped to see their rights and demands recognized. You deliberately wanted to ignore the stimuli and calls of opposition and I myself tabled amendments to support the right demands of some citizens. I am referring, for example, to the 2017 competition for school leaders, already suspended by the TAR, on which the Council of State is expected to respond, also due to alleged discrepancies in the work of the Commissions in the evaluations of the oral. An awareness of the political world was called for in giving answers and hopes to those who have been waiting for a long time. But we will not stop: we asked Minister Fioramonti for a meeting on these and other urgencys. To conclude, we are very dissatisfied with the decree-law under consideration, because it shows, once again, that this Government does not have a vision of country and a project for the future: it is united only by the desire not to send us to the Government that an idea for the country we have and that - rest assured - soon the Italians will make us put into practice. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u30	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u31	Mr President, in my speech today I am not going to talk about this school decree-law, because the measures contained in the measure have already been extensively explained by our colleagues in the House, who have had a great deal of time to deepen them, and by the rapporteur. It is a decree-law that aims to solve however long issues and only its application will tell us what eventually there will be to correct, because perfection does not belong to the human sphere. But - in my opinion - it is already worth a great deal of praise to have tried to put order in the juniper created by normative stratifications aimed at planting flags rather than to establish mechanisms that are functioning and destined to last over time and not the space of an electoral round. That is why I will not reply to my fellow centre-right colleagues who preceded me, because I believe that many of the disasters that we are called upon to recover today also come from the gelminian season, when they were in the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What I would like to do today, however, is to open up other windows, that is, to look to the future from other perspectives, because the measure we are examining today represents a point of not arrival, but of departure, in order to put our school in ever better conditions, so that it can play with ease its fundamental social function and as a garrison of equality and democracy. I say this as a result of the urgency that the new challenges that have arisen and are emerging are imposing. Yes, they require us to reason and understand, as legislators, what new tools to put in place to support the school and accompany it in an improcrastinable path of adaptation to a reality that changes and changes very quickly. And I want to do so by focusing on a few points. I start from STEM subjects, that is those of the field of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We have a duty to develop the attitude to mathematics and these sciences already at the time of compulsory schooling, to promote in our students that love and that attitude to scientific subjects that will ensure that they choose university courses in this field where today we have a strong shortage of students. And this is demonstrated by the latest OECD-Pisa report, which notes that at the end of the first grade middle school, only one in four children and one in eight children are projected into a field of work related to scientific, technological, mathematical and engineering subjects. And I say this as a humanist, who recognizes that the formation and teaching of mathematics must be implemented. We need to help our teachers catch up. I say this because it is in these matters that we develop the ability of finding a solution for attempts, for applications, and we learn that failure is not a defeat, but a growth, because we learn to accept the error and to see it not as an obstacle on the way to achieving a goal, but as an opportunity for growth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The development of these attitudes, which are fundamental in a world that would take us all competitive and projected towards victory without obstacles, failures and defeats, must be accompanied by a path of promotion and implementation of the arts and of the study of the history of our arts within our school paths. In fact, the stories of art, music, dance, theatre and cinema are new pedagogical approaches to study in a more fun, profitable and creative way other subjects as well. There are already innovative and experimental paths in this respect. I am thinking - for example - of the theater applied to the study of mathematics. Moreover, it is necessary to rediscover with ever more conviction and cultivate that sensitivity towards our cultural heritage and, with it, the critical conscience, necessary to demand adequate protection and conservation and demand a full use of our heritage, in the perimeter of a valorization that does not yield to neoliberal logics of a predatory market also in our world of cultural goods. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Culture, in fact, is a resource, but it is not oil; it must not be exploited, but renewed and always generated. And all this must be conducive to the enhancement of the professions in the world of cultural goods, because only in this way will we put wise hands where there is need and promote volunteering wherever it is possible and it must be promoted for the participation of citizenship. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the importance of implementing our legislative paths in the field of information, knowledge and new technologies, new digital systems and ecosystems in which we all live today, for a new literacy and for the acquisition of all those instruments that must be antidote to extreme simplification - and here I am also speaking to ourselves - which leads to the generation of narratives and propagating also of hatred, racism and intolerance that we must defeat, bringing this Parliament and society back to the value of complexity, deepening and articulation. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] They must be an antidote to fake news and therefore to a knowledge that is no longer such; it is a construction of a critical thought, of an opinion that we no longer know what is based on. But it is also about fake news that undermines the research, memory and transmission of our knowledge and knowledge itself. Finally, they must also be an antidote to deep fake: the new threat that, ultimately, must also be defeated in order to guarantee all citizens freedom of vote and all democratic institutions good health. All of us, from today to our future, must question this and, as legislators, we must work together to face these challenges that are beautiful and compelling and are waiting for us. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u32	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u33	Mr President, I would just like to say that this decree-law has sought to remedy a number of situations which have stratified over time and which - we are convinced of this - deserve further consideration in the near future. Meanwhile, we spoke about what we considered the most urgent problems to be solved in order to be able to protect families and students in a better way than the quality of the school institution and the merit. Further issues which unfortunately have not been dealt with in the way we would have liked will then be subject to further measures which will follow in the coming months. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u34	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to thank the senators and senators who wanted to discuss this morning with the Government on a subject which I consider to be of great importance and central importance in the country's political debate. From their interventions, even those critical in truth, and not only from those most favorable to the government's provision, there is a legitimate, just and important attention - I would say even extraordinary - for what still today, despite the many criticalities and the many difficulties that cross it, is still - I think we have to say it loudly in this House - the largest civil and democratic infrastructure in our country. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] It is a great democratic pillar. Despite everything, despite the suffering, despite what has happened for many years, our school, the Italian school is still there; that school that every morning welcomes 8 million students throughout Italy and brings together hundreds of thousands of teachers, who with extraordinary passion do their job in a tiring way, with great strength and sometimes, fortunately, also with great enthusiasm. Moreover, the fact that the school should become the great strategic issue of the country and, therefore, also an element of renewed commitment of the Government in the political life and in the parliamentary debate, has already said it very clearly in the speech of its settlement. I believe that working to ensure that Parliament too can become the place where the political debate, the one advocated by President Conte, can live to the full, is an element of great centrality in our debate. All this is done starting from the fundamentals; what the country's public school is for; what public education, university and research are for, perhaps even trying to modify some elements that have had an element of accumulation even over the years. And we must try to say what we should really claim with the highest voice: public education must serve our country first of all to form new citizens, who can best interpret their democratic life within the country and can make them live better critical spirit, critical awareness, which is exactly what our Italy needs. I very much appreciated the speeches I heard in this morning's debate, including the last ones, and I must say that I very much share this valuable cut, this idea that I think should be at the heart of our reflection. The President Conte, when he set up and wanted to open the season of the new Government, highlighted - in my opinion, very correctly and rightly - some of the guidelines - called them precisely as they are - priorities of action, which are: the qualification of teaching; the fight against school dispersal; the revival due of the Italian university in the global scenario; the need to enhance the professionalism of teachers. And within all of this, which must become the nerve around which to grow the element of awareness, there is also the question that the decree-law at our examination tries to address - and I think that for a very positive part it does - to put in the field elements of contrast to the historical precariousness, teaching and auxiliary. Does the measure completely solve the problem of precariousness in Italy? It does not solve it and it could not be otherwise, since the public school in the country has been hit by very wrong measures over the past decades. I am surprised that some opposition parliamentarians today are adversely addressing the issues contained in the decree-law, forgetting what were the basic reasons why public school has become what it is today. Do we remember what has happened over the last few years? We remember - for example - when the Gelmini reform was carried out in this country, which at the time cut those 8 billion, from which the public school probably never recovered in the course of all these years [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] ? Let us also remember, precisely, that the propaganda operation must be more and more significant than the elements of truth which, on the other hand, I think must also be put on the table in today's debate. The decree-law does not solve all the problems of the Italian school, and moreover could not do so, nor could a government that for three months has had to solve a difficulty so great that it has been through a political debate for so long and above all has determined exactly what we must reverse the trend, namely the lack of centrality, the real political problem of recent years. However, within this difficult framework, at least reverses the trend, reverses the direction, tries to give answers, build an extra chance for this country and, therefore, try to take a step. It certainly does not solve all the issues, but it is a step in the right direction and I think that from this point of view it must be accepted in all its importance and in all its effort. We are very much aware that this is a difficult challenge and that the national education system must be valorised and re-launched. We know it's not easy. We know perfectly well what has happened in recent years and also what has been confusing the matter of recruitment and rating during a long political season. Unfortunately, over the years, the new systems of access to the teaching profession have produced, rather than simplification and less precariousness, a series of overlaps, which are precisely the reason why we have witnessed the multiplication of rankings within the system and - in my opinion - have not dissolved a fundamental theme, which I think we have to question. The underlying theme is that from here to the years to come we must try to build an idea around which teaching is determined around one mode, and not around dozens of confused things that overlap each other. So let's try to do this and, on the one hand, have a long look. We are working on the hypothesis of a bill that will definitely try to put an end to this trend. It has also been said in the course of this morning's debate - and I agree with that - that the day will have to come for us in our country too to understand how we are qualified, how we become teachers; we owe it to our children, and to the quality of teaching, which is a fundamental, very important thing. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] The senator who mentioned it earlier is right: the quality of the teaching is exactly the basic mechanism that we need to avoid that, instead of the teacher, the training of children is done by families, because in that case obviously the family that can afford it, the one that has more economic and cultural tools, will do it better; while the one that has the greatest difficulty of course will do it in a worse way. Obviously we will not solve the great theme that unfortunately is still all within the public education of the country, namely that that social elevator, which even had been seen laboriously in the past years, has inclined and today lives a time of difficulty. We must therefore discuss the quality of teaching, which is something very important - in my opinion - and we should discuss very seriously how we are qualified. However, while we are trying to build a strategy, we must try to remedy what has happened over the years and put in the field of reasoning, mechanisms and tools that can give concrete answers to the world of precarious people, who has kept schools open, has done so much, has put us strength, often face, enthusiasm, passion, but also suffering, difficulty and criticality. Moreover, the European Court of Justice has made it very clear that it is not possible to go beyond the thirty-six months of precariousness and we have tried to begin our reasoning from exactly this point of view. We have therefore set up a mechanism which we could define as standardization. If we don't like this word, we might find many synonyms, but that's exactly the idea. We are talking about two competitions, the extraordinary one and the ordinary one, thanks to which next year there will be 48,000 new places, and this is significant in Italy today. Around this mechanism and the hypothesis on which we are reasoning, let's try to reverse that accumulated trend for years. We have certainly not been able to solve all the issues that have emerged, but we have begun to do so. This government has all the strength to deal with them in the months to come. I am of course also sensitive to the question of the cleaning workers mentioned earlier, also because I believe that the Italian public school is exactly this: teachers, teachers, principals but of course also ATA workers and those who actually allow every morning schools to open. I know, therefore, that we must look very carefully at that world and try to do the best we can to absorb the former LSU state. This is also a great political fact, because for the first time, after almost twenty-five years, we are dealing with an issue which, however, sees a dramatic social condition. There are companies and cleaning companies that since July have not paid salaries to the former LSU who, despite this, help to keep schools open. Will it be a problem for this country, will it also be a problem of social justice, or can we just ignore it? All this to say that the decree-law at our examination really tries to address many of the issues in place and really reverse the trend. Of course, we understand that the debate is perhaps a bit spoiled by the so-called sirens of the school decree, unless intended, announced a few months ago, which had probably produced great expectations and which, however - let me tell you this - seems to me to have been mainly a resounding act of propaganda. Very little reality but a lot, a lot of propaganda. [[Applause from Senator Russo]] We really should ask ourselves - if the whole Italian public school should ask - why it has never really been called into question and has remained a piece of paper, perhaps because it has been played on the skin of teachers and precarious people, precisely for some element of electoral propaganda. In conclusion, Mr President, I think I can say without emphasis, with conscience and with full understanding of all the elements of difficulty of the case, that we are at the beginning of a true path of counter-trend and we must continue the work of overcoming a long encrustation. I believe that we can really imagine giving back to the Italian public school its original role, sculpted with very clear, very clear and unequivocal words in our Republican Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u36	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of Law No 1633, of the conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 126, 29 October 2019, introducing measures of extraordinary necessity and urgency in the recruitment of school staff and research and certification bodies for teachers, in the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u38	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 126, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 2 p.m. for the continuation of the work, as agreed. (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 2.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to thank the majority and the Government for accepting the proposal of Forza Italia, which introduces the general acquisition of digital skills and so-called coding by the teachers of the Italian school. Literally coding means computer programming and it is a discipline that has as its basis computational thought, that is all those mental processes, which aim at solving problems, combining characteristic methods and intellectual tools. It is, colleagues, a real turning point for the Italian school: when it is decided to recruit 48,000 teachers (24,000 with extraordinary competition and the other 24,000 with ordinary competition) it is in fact a rule aimed at ensuring that all the teachers of the Italian school have the skills of the teachers of the third millennium. For this reason, the Forza Italia Group has requested the acquisition of digital skills and coding by the teachers who will be hired following the calls for competition, but also to continue, without interruption, in the digital training of all teachers, which from now on will be formed in Italian schools and universities through the 24 university credits required. Mr President, coding is already a fundamental issue for the new generations of students, for literacy in languages and new technologies and for dominating them, and it represents the fourth basic skill of the third millennium school, in continuity with reading, writing and counting. This is essential, as has been said, in order not to have, in the age of artificial intelligence of the illiterate returning at the end of higher education, and not to make them unemployed to be formed again at new costs for the community. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we modern, centre-right liberals believe that the Italian school should look more strongly at the merits of the digital revolution of our time, and especially of that time when the students we are now training will work: a reality that will be global (from this comes the fundamental importance of the perfect knowledge of the English language, much better than the one currently provided) and very competitive (for which they should be expected to last equivalent to those of other higher public schools, without forcing our students to remain on the benches one year more than their peers). The modern school we have in mind should not shy away, as it is now, in a short-sighted and even a bit cowardly way, from the objective evaluation tests of the internationally recognized results (except then to be depressed, if not even ashamed, of the insufficient performance recorded, unfortunately still recently, by our students, according to the standards of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development). Let us review ourselves and be resigned: the meritocracy cannot ignore an objective assessment of capabilities, anywhere in the world. So, unfortunately, with this reform we have not yet, but at least, on input from Forza Italia, with the introduction of coding in public school a step forward has been taken today. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u40	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u41	Senator Binetti, we have already taken action on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u42	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). It's very serious.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u43	We just got back to work. Honestly, I didn't immediately look at the government benches to notice their absence, but we are providing. They are all in the vicinity of the House. I'll suspend the session for a few minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.06 p.m. and resumed at 2.08 p.m.) Senator Fantetti, I apologize to you for not being careful. If you wish to take up a few steps in your speech, I will give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u44	Mr President, I trust that everything has been recorded and is in the record, so I leave it to the attention of the Government, of course, to the reading of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said very clearly and effectively not only by my group colleagues, but also by the representatives of the Government and, between the lines, also by some of the opposition forces, how important the measure is. I would then like to clarify one aspect. On tomorrow's day we will vote for the confidence that I will give strongly on this measure, because it allows the Italian school to take a further step forward. We know that there are many aspects missing in this decree and we know that there are controversial elements. Anyone who has put their hands on measures on the school knows that it is impossible to intervene not displease someone, also because over the years there have been so many and such measures and so many and such mechanisms of training, accreditation and entry into the world of the school that it will still take some time to put things back in order. On the contrary, this should be the perspective that we should all share: to make the path of access to school education an orderly path that is not changed every time the Government changes protempore of the Italian Republic and that therefore does not create continuous confusion in the category that, perhaps, together with doctors, is the most precious for a Republic and a democratic institution because it deals with future generations and that must first of all have confidence in itself. For me, talking about trust today means first of all trusting the school, the women and the men who choose to do that job. They often do so by vocation, but we want them to do it more and more with professional recognition; it cannot be just vocation, it must be something that puts them up in the rankings of the works considered to be such. This is the true reversal of the trend we want. You see, I do not want to escape from a knot; it was indeed very interesting to listen to the speeches on this point. The political positions of the Democratic Party and the 5 Star Movement, but also of the colleagues of Free and Equal (with whom we had many discussions in the last legislature) and probably also of the colleagues of Italy Viva (with whom this could be one of the political nodes of the division) are different with regard to the school. These ideas have been expressed in different positions during the last years of government. However, I have heard, not only in these weeks when we have worked together on this measure, but throughout this year and a half of the legislature, that there is a common view on school. Members will remember that, when I was in opposition, I always kept the same tone as I do today; this attitude is not born of a government alliance. Then we probably thought and felt that we could reach those goals with different interventions and measures; but among these political forces there is a common vision about the school, which is not that of a 0 school that serves only and exclusively to form people to send them into the world of work, error that all too often I hear when discussing school, but it is first - as the Undersecretary De Cristofaro said before - that of the main institution that forms citizens and that provides cultural tools, critical tools and critical elements of thought, which are also professionalizing. In fact, today one is more able to live in a world of work that is constantly changing and in which it is very unlikely - and perhaps not even so sad - that the first work of life must necessarily be the last. Once it was like this: at a certain point, each of the generations - I believe up to that of my parents - thought to arrive, perhaps passing through a couple of intermediate jobs, to the work of life, the one that would accompany you to retirement. Today it is unlikely to be so and we must increasingly think that this however can be an element of liberation of the person, not a condemnation. This is the difference and it is what passes between the precarious as condemnation and instead the flexibility of work as liberation from work. And this goes exactly from the tools that we will be able to give to the boys and girls in the school: the ability to change, the ability to manage oneself within situations, the ability to learn throughout their professional life, the intelligence of the context, the ability to understand how to behave in that particular situation. This is the biggest challenge of every teacher: to give these tools in a different way for each child and for each child, for each girl and for each boy, because each boy in the school is different. And, in order for the school to be equal for all and produce equality, it must be different for each one. This is the biggest challenge and this challenge comes from the professionalism of the teachers. We can do all the discussions in the world, introduce all the curricula that we want, discuss infinitely what is the most important subject, but the real fundamental element of the school is that unique relationship that is created between a teacher and a student. Each of us, throughout our lives, remembers that teacher who changed his life to positive and unfortunately also remembers that teacher who instead would have preferred never to meet in his own school life, because there were both. It is true that this decree-law came to the Senate essentially armored, but after a very significant work in the Chamber of Deputies, which also transposed several opposition proposals. I am a little quieter than others to say, having fought for a referendum that differentiated the functions of the two Chambers, but I think it concerns everyone: everyone in this House has been, at least for a short period of their political experience, in the majority and anyone who has found himself in the government of the country (there is now no one who has not been and fortunately we have overcome the exclusions of one or the other political force, as happens in a mature democracy) has had to exercise this mechanism, which can be beneficial if exercised with intelligence, so, while working on a provision in a House going deep, the same way is done in the other on another measure. We can rightly give in to partisan rhetoric (we have all done so), but if we want to look at the substance of things, this is a measure which, compared to the way out of the government, has been greatly modified by parliamentary action and has been enriched. There are still many open issues, but it is indeed an urgent matter. For once the use of the instrument of the decree-law has its own reason because there were a number of issues that had to be resolved in a short time. Not everyone will be happy, but I have received many requests - you have received them too - from those colleagues, those teachers and those people who were worried that, in the imminence of the end of the year and the expiry of the decree-law, we would let everything go away, for problems that are in the decree, and leave them without an answer by the end of the year. That's what we didn't do. I then believe that politics should learn. I say this with great honesty, thinking how many times I have tried to do it, finding myself in the opposite position. The first time - I remember again - I was at a student camp where Minister D'Onofrio was visited. On that occasion I had fought (without making great intellectual quotations) to allow the Minister, who was obviously very disputed at that student camp, to have the opportunity to explain well his own reasons and beliefs and the attempt he was making, according to his values, to bring positive contributions to the school. We should all learn to discuss more in this way especially the Italian school, because on this subject - which certainly divides, because there are profoundly different fundamental visions, - we should not go and tell those teachers who face difficulties created over time by the different measures: "Look, if it were us in the government, with a magic wand stroke, we'd settle all of you and solve the problems." That is not true: no one has been able or is able to do so. Each measure can then go in the direction of improving, even one step, the condition of some of those teachers. Let us ask ourselves sincerely, each one of us, whether it is better that this decree-law be there or not. For me the answer is absolutely yes, it better be there. For me the answer is: from the next day we try to work to tackle all the other problems and we try to do it more and more in Parliament, because it is precisely with the parliamentary activity that we manage to build results of this kind. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u47	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u48	Mr President, Government, colleagues (the few who are of course there), I must say with regret that I have lost track of the number of measures on which this Government has placed trust, but what is serious and which I have already had the opportunity to say in the Commission during the examination of this measure on the school (which was ultimately only a farce), is that this decree-law, like the others, was armored after the first reading, without giving any chance to intervene in this branch of Parliament that we should deserve to represent with our proposals. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and that, on the other hand, is absolutely cut off from any decision on the problems of the school. Ladies and gentlemen - I am particularly appealing to those who should be in front of me, since I have no one at this moment in front of me. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - if we are not ourselves, Senators of the Republic, to claim the role that belongs to us, let us not expect someone to give it to us in the government. Moving on with this step - and I would like to contradict my previous colleague - other than a reduction in the number of Members. We are faced with a habit that is taking dangerously foot and only gives a voice to one branch of Parliament: all this is truly demeaning because of the role we represent towards the citizens who elected us and voted for us! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Entering into the merit of the decree-law, it was born from the understanding of 24 April 2019, when the Government was there we of the League that, despite a thousand difficulties and hindered in any way possible by the former allies of Government, we had managed to prepare a measure able to meet the needs of all the operators of the school sector: a sort of path that had to lead to a zero point in the school, from which to start again. The decree-law, in fact, in its first draft by the previous Government, was the result of an agreement intended to meet the legitimate expectations of overcoming the transitional phase of the historical precariousness of the school: an agreement with the five major trade union organizations, expression of 93 percent of the entire trade union representation of a sector in which two out of three workers are enrolled in a trade union organization. Since the agreement reached at the time was not fully transfused into the text presented by Minister Fioramonti, the Senate therefore had the right and duty to improve this provision and not to consider the text approved by the House to be immodifiable, with all respect for colleagues from the other branch of Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have in fact a role and the times for the conversion into law of the decree-law would have allowed a third examination. In fact, the problems highlighted and the dissatisfaction expressed by the major trade unions made clear the need to improve the text. On the other hand, we are faced with an armored measure: in the face of Article 70 of our Constitution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Saponara shows the text of the Constitution]] That same Constitution that you waved in July for hours, blocking the work of the Assembly for hours. Shame on you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I want to remind my colleague De Lucia del Movimento 5 Stars in particular that she turned almost scandalized towards me, that the protests were against you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u49	Senator Saponara, speak with the Presidency, which I assure you is careful.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u50	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). In addition we are faced with a decree-law that humiliates the workers of the school, especially the precarious of the third class: over 55,000 workers who have long asked for a special enabling procedure, which the League has always shared, but which instead our main political competitors have always opposed. It is a measure that penalizes teaching, educational, auxiliary, technical-administrative staff and that affects school leaders, teachers of religion and does not spare even the teachers of equal schools; it even mocks the unions, who have seen the disappearance of all the commitments promised by the previous government. The teachers had put their trust in us, but also in our former government allies to resolve their long-standing job uncertainties. On the other hand, we had to note from the attitude taken during the procedure of the provision to the Chamber an ideological aversion towards teachers, who, after years of uncertainty, ask to be able to put some firm point in their working life. In the same way, we would never have expected to see our former allies sitting with the authors of Law No 107 of 2005, better known as good school, a measure against which colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, at the time, had expressed great criticality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Regarding Law 107 and its infamous algorithm, in this school decree there is no trace of a change to bring home the teachers illegitimately transferred by the Renzi Government, forced to work away from home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There has been no solution to the problem of magisterial graduates, teachers of religion who are unfairly discriminated against, directors of general and administrative services (DSGA) who function and school leaders, not to mention the precarious teachers of the third group. An amendment of the League was not accepted which provided for the establishment of special enabling pathways (PAS), which would allow more than 50,000 workers to continue their path towards stabilisation. The Government did not grant them this possibility, after the State exploited them for years with the recurrence of fixed-term contracts. In order not to forget it, I would remind you that in the previous draft of the measure we had provided for a special enabling procedure that would effectively resolve the problem of the vast precariousness existing in the sector. Mr President, I shall conclude. Despite the announcements by Minister Fioramonti about a large increase in resources for the world of school, in spite of his resignation, there is no trace of all this, but - indeed - the resources to cover the majority amendments are scarce, as already highlighted by the Budget Service of the House of Deputies. The majority deny by the facts what they say in words, that the school is at the heart of the government's action. In recent years the school has represented the political tomb of many leaders and parties, before Renzi and then the PD. Now, for those who inherit part of this electorate, there will be a similar punishment in the ballot box, especially at the hands of precarious teachers, ignored and humiliated by this decree-law [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , teachers who are brought into play only because they are delegated to them tasks that would be the responsibility of the families instead. For all the reasons I have listed, on behalf of the Lega Group, I express my absolute opposition to the confidence in the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u51	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, (which I thank for coming back to this House, it is a pleasure to be able to speak in your presence), the real point is that there have been some frankly problematic passages in the reply. (Applause from the centre and the right) The first, which I would like to stress and which I intended to address from the outset in my speech, is the passage on the so-called public school identified as a state school. I think the government remembers how several years ago, when the Minister of Education was Berlinguer, it stated that the national school system had two legs: the state school and the parified school, which was in fact a public school. Therefore, the idea of excluding teachers from the new two competitions - ordinary and extraordinary - from the parified school is a structural injustice that reflects a very deep bias that - let me say for the experience, the years and the white hair I have - is of a decidedly anticlerical type. In fact, it is as if we were thinking of the school parified in terms of the school of elite (so school of rich people who, as such, can afford to pay twice taxes for the public school and the parified one), or in terms of business-commercial (i.e. parified schools that are the result of diplomas). In all this one forgets the extraordinary function that the Paris school has always carried out in the Italian school system, to which they owe, in essence, the majority of the experimental projects that were then put into system and became general heritage. It is clear that, in a school system that can better manage some choices of content and value, it is easier to make innovation and it is easier to do experimentation. Just the intervention of my colleague Fantetti, who wanted to emphasize how the value of the fourth competence - alongside writing, reading and accounting - that is, computer competence, becomes a fundamental element for the development and innovation of our country. Well, this is already present in the experimentation of many schools, which - be careful - do not because they are schools of rich people, but because they are schools in which, in a school system that establishes an alliance between family and school, it becomes easier for parents to be co-protagonists in this great adventure and make available to the education of children, friends of children and other generations resources and skills that they have. This bill does not give any account of the experimental value. We talk here very often, for example, about inclusion; we talk many times about attention to diversity and, even in positive terms, about a fight against poverty that is measured by increasing the levels of knowledge and competence of students; however, we forget that the Italian school tradition assigns to this type of school, which many times fall within the system of parified school, the real merit of having achieved a social revolution. One for all: today we should remember this extraordinary agreement between FCA and Peugeot (FCA that for us Italians has the physical face of FIAT) and we know that FIAT itself, without the Salesian schools of that time, without that advanced vocational training, without that concrete dimension of capacity and skills development, not only strictly intellectualistic but also real training at work, would not have made sense. There's no sign of this here. It is the ignorance behind this bill that defines it as a demagogic, partial and incomplete measure. That is what we want to say - if we succeed - once more a no, to the faction of the way schools are presented, to the lack of recognition of the dignity and work of teachers, for example of equalized schools, who cannot have rights similar to those of their colleagues. This is what structurally weakens the Italian cultural system, because it actually puts on the shoulders of the parents, who want for the children a formation that also treasures many other values, a burden sometimes frankly unbearable. Mr President, I see my microphone flashing, but I will take just a few more seconds, which owes me only for one reason: when my colleague spoke there was no government, which is such an explicit signal, so iconic of the lack of respect for the opposition, but also of the debate on school... [[Comments of the Undersecretary De Cristofaro.]] You were in the Chamber when Mr D'Incà spoke of ten minutes, so we were not the only ones present. Having said that, I claim a much deeper respect for culture - let's call it that - than the center-right area. I do not like to talk about the culture of opposition; I like to refer to the liberal and Catholic cultural root, which was the great inspiration of our Constitution, and which also in this case necessarily clashes with a superficiality - I do not want to call it malice - or perhaps only with a sloppyness, but in fact this culture and this tradition has not been given the space, time and credit it deserved. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Lunesu]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u53	She's registered to speak Senator Russo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u54	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, school is the educational and training system the value of which is enshrined in the Constitution; it is the physical and figurative place where the most important contract between the State and the citizen takes shape, where the right to be educated is a duty to be educated, where the exchange between the contracting parties is not limited to a do-ut des but generates an exponential multiplication of value which enriches both parties involved and society. That this virtuous system must be protected and valued is a clear concept to us, an important and fundamental element of the political agenda of the 5 Star Movement. In the same way it is clear that the school system has suffered a precarious situation due to the succession of rules that are not always effective or not completed or even inappropriate. The world of school knows well what and how many norms were born from category interests that have put in the background the right to study, have depowered the effectiveness of the training system or still restrained the recovery of inequalities, the function of social elevator of the school, the valorization of excellences. The decree-law that we examine today addresses just one of the many urgent needs, that relative to the recruitment of the staff that for years now sees enlarged pockets of precarious with serious discomfort not only for the teaching staff, but also for the students and their families, who suffer delays in the allocation of the teachers to the classes, but also a didactic discontinuity that has become the normality. In turn, teachers, demotivated by the lack of certainty about the future of working life and by a relationship with the central administration often dotted with appeals and judicial procedures, have not been placed in a position to fulfill their mandate serenely. This measure aims to remedy procedural deficits precisely in view of the stabilisation of the many precarious teachers, but without ever diverting attention from the effectiveness of that training contract and from the subjects (children and boys) to whom the right-duty of education is addressed. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars has focused on the effectiveness of recruitment procedures that, even in the valorization of previous work experiences, are suitable to evaluate the knowledge and skills that can guarantee a teaching class always up to its task. The beating heart of the text under consideration is the call for the extraordinary procedure for the recruitment of teachers, exclusively for the first and second grade secondary school, for precarious teachers with three years of service. The extraordinary competition that will be launched at the same time as the ordinary competition, in which the precarious people can participate, not only reserves 24,000 seats to the same, but thanks to the parliamentary initiatives of the colleagues of the Chamber, extends, as requested by several parties, in the calculation of the thirty-six months also the current year and anticipates the beginning of the school year 2008-2009. The same competition allows for the achievement of the qualification, evaluating for this purpose also the service performed in peer schools. Precisely in order to ensure the quality of the level of education, the Movimento 5 Stars has strongly wanted a selective procedure that would assess the merit; a procedure constituted in a first step by an incoming test with a barrier in the evaluation to 7 tenths for the access to the oral test, and that ends with a further check, this time on the field, constituted by the year of trial in which the competitors who are lacking will acquire the 24 educational credits relative to the competences of the anthropo-psycho-pedagogic disciplines. This is because, in addition to the experience and knowledge of discipline, knowledge of the teaching of discipline is also necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Among the measures useful to overcome the criticalities of the school system it is necessary to mention also quickly the possibility to participate in the extraordinary competition also for teachers already in charge (so-called caged); the possibility to participate in the competition with reservation for teachers who mature the third year in the current year; the possibility to participate with reservation in the competition in the support classes for subjects enrolled in specialization courses although not yet concluded; the sliding of the rankings of the contests of 2016, with the extension of the validity of the ranking for a total of five years; the precedence in the procedures of stabilization previewed for the winners of the ordinary competition of 2016 and the extraordinary one of 2018; the creation of a suitable band of the contest of 2016, placed in line with the winners of the extraordinary contest of 2018. On a parliamentary initiative it is also authorised to launch the competition for Catholic teachers, which has not been held since 2004, in which precarious people are protected with thirty-six months of teaching thanks to a reserve of 50% of the available places. On the same subject, in the more part of the competition, the ranking of the last competition of 2004 is also authorised; the indication of a reserved procedure for the progression to the area of Director of General and Administrative Services (DSGA) for administrative assistants acting for at least three years in the last ten years, with a reserve of 20% of the places provided for by the requirements. The procedures for the stabilisation of personnel engaged in cleaning services are also improved. In this context, thanks to a parliamentary initiative of our Group, permission is given for the sliding of the ranking of 45 additional places of school worker for the province of Palermo for those staff who had already passed the selective tests and for which the posts had been reserved but who had remained without work. The decree-law we are called upon to convert today aims to remedy the mistakes of the past but this Parliament is well aware that for the future a strategy will have to be put in place to create a system of recruitment of teachers based on criteria of certainty, merit, protection of workers and guarantee for students. This is precisely what the link with the budget law under discussion in Parliament over the past few days is referring to the initial training of teachers, where teachers are already called upon to train as teachers in their university choice. Finally, I would like to stress, as a small personal success, an agenda approved in the 7th Commission, with which the Government is committed to institutionalizing the high school with a choreutic approach and with a modern musical direction for the study of jazz music: a battle that I have been carrying out for months, thinking of an increasingly open and modern school that does not neglect the ambitions and freedom of choice of students. Precisely in the awareness and conviction that school and education are the most powerful weapons of freedom for all citizens, and aware that we must complete this measure in ten days' time, we will confirm the confidence of the Government in this measure, [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u55	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. As established by the Conference of Leaders, explanations of vote and roll-call votes will take place at tomorrow's sitting from 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-177.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 19, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 14.43 p.m.
