ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 12 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u4	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 3 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018) and 4 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2019). The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators Quaestors, as every year, the Senate Assembly is examining the acts relating to the internal budget of the institution. This time it is the report of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018 and the draft budget for the year 2019, which the Presidency Council decided at its meeting on 6 June. Limiting myself to an essential examination of these two accounting documents and starting from the statement relating to the last financial year, I observe first of all that the total effective expenditure (net of the savings to be paid to the State) has been equal, in 2018, to 487.104.158.26 euros, in decrease of almost two million euros regarding the final figure of the year 2017 and even of approximately 33 million euros compared to the final figure of the year 2012.It goes, moreover, considering that this figure of reduction of the expenditure, being expressed in nominal terms, does not take into account the inflationary dynamics and, therefore, would be even more marked if expressed in real terms. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u6	Colleagues, please, those who want to attend the work take their seats and listen in due and obsequious silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u7	PESCO, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. Moreover, Senate revenue shows that the financial envelope has remained unchanged since 2012 to the extent of EUR 505.360.500,00. As a result, compared to the budget requested in 2011 - equal to €526,960,500.00 - there is an annual reduction of €21,6 million. Taking into account that the amount of the allocation will remain unchanged also in the financial year 2019 - as can be seen from the forecast budget for the current financial year - the cumulative reduction, since the beginning of the last parliamentary term, amounts to as much as €151.2 million. The constant reduction in expenditure in recent years has therefore been accompanied by a substantial stability of the main entrance of the Senate, but with the latter settling at a significantly lower level than in the years before the crisis of 2011. As regards the composition of the expenditure, the operating expenditure was equal, in 2018, to 55,18 per cent of the total expenditure, compared with 44,82 per cent of the social security expenditure, with a slight increase compared to 2017 of the share destined for the functioning of the institution and capital expenditure. As regards the 2019 forecast budget, in addition to the figure already shown of the lower budget required also for the current year, there is a substantial difference in total social security expenditure compared to 2018. The savings due to the application of the reform of the calculation of the vitalities, approved in the course of 2018, were in fact left in a special fund, established Prudently until the end of the ongoing process in the internal judicial bodies. Also with regard to the application of paragraph 261 of Law No 145 of 2018, which provides for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain gross annual amounts, the establishment of the savings fund on pension treatment of a high amount was carried out (Article 1.27.3), as established by the same law in paragraph 265. It should also be pointed out that, in the last financial year, compulsory current expenditure represented 91.7 percent of all Senate expenditures, although since 2016 there has been a slight trend towards the reduction of this aggregate, which includes the savings to be paid to the state budget, the costs for senators, former senators, role-playing staff, staff in quiescence, staff outside the administration, as well as all related charges, such as tax and social security charges. There is also a slight decrease, in the three-year period 2016-2018, also with regard to current operating expenditure in the strict sense, an aggregate which consists of all the expenses incurred for the provision of services and support supplies to the functioning of the Senate, such as professional services for the Administration, expenses for the activity of the Commissions, costs for IT services, communication, insurance, transport, rental, cleaning, etc. Conversely, capital expenditure is increasing, which almost doubled between 2016 and 2018 from €1,258,345.83 to €2,465,013.75. Capital expenditure, which is the least significant aggregate in absolute terms among those mentioned above, includes expenditure on the purchase of movable listed property, extraordinary maintenance costs, as well as expenditure on the purchase and conservation of the heritage of the Library and the Historical Archives. Faced with such a marked reduction in expenditure as the one recorded since 2012, the challenge, of course, has been and still is to make the financial results achieved compatible - testifying to the participation of the Senate in the efforts to stabilize public finance in recent years - with the maintenance of a high quality standard of the services provided, all the more in a context that has seen, at least until the end of 2017, a constant reduction of the staff of role of the Administration of the Senate. From this point of view, it gives good hope for the decision by which the Presidency Council, at its meeting on 30 July last, approved a timetable for competition procedures for all careers. It also gives good hope for the tendency to increase capital expenditure recorded in the three-year period 2016-2018, a fact that testifies to the effort to accompany the reduction of current expenditure to an increase in investments, so that the efficiency and effectiveness of the administrative machinery of the Senate can contribute to the reconstruction of a feeling of trust between institutions and citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the College of Quaestors and the Council of President, I would like to put to the attention of the Assembly the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018 and the draft internal budget of the Senate for the financial year 2019, the two accounting documents which, as we shall see shortly, take into account the activity of the Senate. The Senate, once again from 2013 to today, has achieved a savings of 255 million euros and this means that regarding the data of the statement for 2018 we have a total expenditure of 487.1 million euros regarding that of 488.9 million euros of 2017, therefore an ulterior saving of 1,8 million euros regarding 2017. It is an ever decreasing trend, in fact the data of the 2018 statement testify a reduction of expenditure from 2012 to the present that it is worth 6.5 percent. The financial statements see a decrease in logistics services, maintenance costs, insurance services and expenses for former senators of 5.6 million euros, as well as in the health care budget, which today is positive with a surplus of 2.3 million euros. This is the case with respect to the 2018 statement. With regard to the data of the draft budget for 2019, the budget of EUR 505.3 million, marks a lower impact in public finance of EUR 255 million compared to 2011, with an annual saving of EUR 21.6 million since 2012, of which EUR 255 million, EUR 151 million is of less budget and EUR 104 million are of savings, among which is assumed for 2019 there are 12 million of expenditure reduction. I would like to point out, for the sake of fair information, that the forecast budget is only an aspect of accounting prudence, with respect to the real objective which is the statement, which represents the true expenditure. In fact, just in view of the release of the turnover, we have forecast an increase, but we can already say, being already November that the 2019 statement will be less than the 2018 statement, so that there is no increase in expenditure regarding, really and concretely, the Senate of the Italian Republic for the year 2019. I say this out of correctness of information, compared also to a series of news about the press. Let me turn to the subject of the work carried out. We have done a whole series of renovations within the Senate of the Italian Republic. In particular, we have spoken in the Commissions: for example, we have recently restructured and completed our work in the Justice Commission; we have spoken in the Finance and Treasury Commission and in the Commission, public and private work, social security for the lighting and updating of TV camera systems; a series of works were carried out on the mezzanine floor of Palazzo Carpegna. There is a reconfiguration of the work in the Defence Commission in the near future, and the same applies with regard to Palazzo Carpegna and this House, with an improvement and strategic intervention for the aspects of air conditioning and electricity. The budget committee is also involved in this matter. Another fundamental aspect, concerning the quality of the Senate, is that the payment of invoices in the Senate takes place with a maximum of thirty-six days: it means that the Senate is among the first bodies, if not the first, in Italy to pay so quickly, even compared to other European performances, which for example are forty-two days for Spain and forty-eight for France. Among other things, there is the unblocking of turnover, as I mentioned earlier, with new competitions that have already been defined in a resolution of the Presidency Council. We have already spoken for the coadjutors and we will then leave with the assistants, secretaries and parliamentary advisers. There are a whole series of savings, from staff, to social security costs, to senators' allowances and ancillary skills, savings that, from the beginning of the last parliamentary term to today are equal to 60 million euros. In addition, the percentage of expenditure on allowances, compared to the Senate budget, has halved from 2001 to 2019, from 19 to 10 percent. Today a whole series of green policies are in place, very attentive to environmental issues: 90 percent of the low-consumption lamps, photovoltaic panels in the warehouse of the Senate Trullo, entrance of totally electric or hybrid cars. In addition, the Senate is increasingly attentive and modern, with an audio-video system of the Senate Chamber totally innovative; the computerization and technological modernization of the Hall and the Commission; apps, virtual web tour and senate webTV, with eight channels and 3.5 million visitors within these channels. We are also reviewing the whole system, with a new European tendering procedure, as far as catering is concerned. The same applies to rentals and utilities (-650.000 euros), practically the total zeroing of the canons of Trullo and the premises of Santa Maria in Aquiro. Here too, there is a saving in logistics services and representation costs. I would like to say that all this has been done, clearly, with the two colleagues, Senators Paolo Arrigoni and Laura Bottici: I am exposing the relationship, but they are totally with me, in the process of working within the Senate. On the energy efficiency front, the installation of a monitoring system for electrical and thermal consumption in each building is being evaluated. It is also intended to reduce the architectural barriers and redevelopment of the areas adjacent to the Palaces, in synergy clearly with the City Hall Roma I. I say all this - then I will hand over the report - just to demonstrate, once again, that the Senate is always attentive on the one hand, to investment policies to improve the quality of our infrastructure, on the other, to the pursuit of an important saving that we have achieved in recent years. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u9	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Galilei-Pacinotti) in Pisa, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u10	I declare the joint debate open. Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u11	Mr President, I would like to thank Senators Commissioner De Poli, Mr Arrigoni and Mr Bottici for the great work they have done. We are truly aware of great efforts to improve this internal budget, from the important containment of expenditure, to making spending efficient and up to the modern times, but also to the level of what this institution must be, namely the representation of Italy in the world. The budget invests heavily on the virtuous internal functioning of the Senate, on the legislative front, in support of the Commissions and the Assembly, on the organizational and administrative improvement. There is a great deal of investment to make the Senate capable of modernising itself even in terms of sustainability, green, as we say today. We greatly appreciated the purchase of electric cars, separate collection, low consumption lamps: they are important answers. One of the country's main institutions must be an example and a warning to all the citizens who are watching us with great attention. And they watch us with great attention thanks to the fact that the Senate has become transparent: more than 3 million people follow the work of the Commissions and the Assembly and this is very important to make this feel the home of all the citizens living in Italy. Much work has also been done from the point of view of equal opportunities and this is a very positive sign for Italy today. Applause, then, to those who gave the stimulus and the keys to reading. A praise, of course, to the officials and to the entire Senate Administration, because we have found great professionalism and courtesy, the ability to be always alongside politics, in a competent and super partes way. Senate officials are recognized in their capacity to be side by side with politics, so much so that they are often called to government side-by-side roles. Who has, like us, a profound meritorious culture knows how much this is worth, not only for the good functioning of the Senate, but also for the ability to be an example for the new generations who look to the commitment, the merit, the ability to make the country start again through these keys of reading. Of course, there are new challenges. I am thinking, for example, of the greater synergies that can be created with the Chamber of Deputies on some services, from the Study Service to Accounting, the Technology Service, the central for tendering, also to increase the possibility of the very good officials to attend courses and to be always stimulated and avant-garde in their ability to be attentive to what happens in Italy and in the world. I believe that, in this regard too, it is very important for the Senate to elect as soon as possible the new members of the Presidency Council, in order to demonstrate, in a plural way, that it is really the home in which Italians can recognize themselves even on the basis of political sensibilities. Thank you, therefore, from me and from Italy Viva tutto to Dr. Serafin, Secretary General of the Senate, to the Deputy Secretaries General and to the Directors of the Services, to the officials and legal advisers, to all. This, at a time of great difficulty in Italy, remains a beacon to watch with great attention and we must set an example. There is no majority or minority when it comes to institutions; there is only guarantee, good governance, example. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and fellow Senators, I am speaking to put to everyone's attention an issue which has been ignored for too long now and which needs to be regulated as soon as possible. To date, there is no specific and binding voice in the Senate's internal budget for our collaborators, those who support us in our parliamentary work, virtually without any continuity, where it is necessary to include public holidays. There is no type of contractual model to which the Member can refer; there is no relationship between the job held, the number of hours worked and the remuneration; there is no clarity about the ownership of the payment of tax and social security contributions; there is no transparency about the management of such employment relationships and the related resources allocated by the Senate for this purpose. In short, Parliament is now the place where the work of professionals, often with a degree, master's degree or doctorate, and their protection is left entirely to chance. The lack of regulation of the professional figure of the parliamentary collaborator therefore leaves the working relationship to the only and only bargaining between the parties, with the risk of causing distortions and irregularities in the working relationship and of throwing shadows on the Parliament itself. It is just a few days ago the scandal of a Member's collaborator, who was finally sentenced to ten years for drug trafficking and now arrested for mob association, because he was a postman for the bosses in prison. Among other things, the House of Deputies has allowed to deposit its contract with a salary of 50 euros per month. In these cases the error is not of the individual parliamentarians, but is of the Administrations of the House and the Senate that must not allow these aberrations to occur. The European Parliament, for example, inserts Article 21 into the Members' Statute, which states that Members are entitled to be assisted by personal collaborators freely chosen by them and that Parliament covers the expenditure actually incurred in the employment of assistants and lays down the conditions for the exercise of this right. In this legislature, the President of the Chamber Roberto Fico also stated, after meeting the representatives of the Italian Association of parliamentary collaborators, that he wanted to commit himself personally to bringing to the agenda of the Bureau a resolution to discipline clearly, dignified and transparently, the role of the same collaborators and the working relationship between them and the MPs. And here? What did you do here? The excuses used for a long time to leave the situation in this legislative limbo are always the same: this would increase the costs for the Senate budget. Of course, initially administrative assistance will be needed to draw up and refine the contracts entered into, but, on the other hand, with the employees paid directly by the Administration and binding the same amount that today is paid to us only for our assistants, we would have a huge savings, since the dozens of colleagues who do not want to avail of any collaborator would not have the rain funds without justification that they have today. Of course, colleagues who do not have assistants and turn these funds to the party may not be so happy about it, but the financing of the parties has been eliminated and the professionals who support us every day in our parliamentary activity must not suffer. On this very serious lack of legislation that involves us all, I must stress the total lack of interest of the Presidency Council. In the last parliamentary term, President Pietro Grasso, in five years, did not find the time to meet once the Association of parliamentary collaborators, even just to start a conversation. Not only that: even the quaestor senators, both in the past and in this legislature (and two of them remained the same), have gone in addition to exchanges of emails or telephone contacts, without having ever joined an official meeting related to the issue collaborators, avoiding to meet the directly concerned. Let us be clear: the Presidency Council is the administrative summit of the Senate and must address the problems and resolve the issues that have been outstanding for some time. It cannot lend itself to becoming the place where uncomfortable issues or which do not economically agree with some political parties, never mature. It's not difficult: just want it. How can we talk in this House about workers' rights, minimum wage, legality when we are the first, we senators, who cannot solve and regulate once and for all the issue of our collaborators, who are the backbone of parliamentary work? That is why I call for a commitment from the Presidency Council to start a dialogue as soon as possible with the association which represents hundreds of parliamentary collaborators and to put an end, once and for all, to this situation of embarrassment throughout Parliament. Thank you for the work you are doing and I hope to be here in a year with the desired solution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u14	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u15	Mr President, as has already been said by my previous colleague, the relationship between Members of Parliament and their collaborators in Italy is not in any way governed from the public point of view, but is put back only to the bargaining of the parties. Our balance sheet does not include a specific and binding item, and there is no contractual model to refer to; no clarity on contribution payments; no remuneration parameter or relation to the hours of work performed and the type of assignment. There have been, from the Services studies of both rooms, some attempts of innovative proposals in this field. I would like to point out as a model to be followed, at least to be studied and partially followed, that of the European Parliament, where there is an amount allocated to each Member of Parliament who is directly conveyed to the current account of the assistant or assistants chosen by the Member of Parliament. This ensures, on the one hand, the maximum and total transparency of all operations and, on the other hand, ensures that employees have the certainty of remuneration and the consecration of the work they carry out through appropriate compensation. I think this model worked very well. I realize that the situation is different; we were discussing it with our fellow Quaestors: the European bureaucratic machine is enormous and it also allows us to handle a mechanism of this kind with greater fluidity. However, an attempt to introduce elements of certainty must be made. In this sense, too, I would like the Presidency Council to speak with the representatives of the assistants, who share certain rules concerning wages, working time and everything that can, at the same time, allow transparency but also pay for what a parliamentary collaborator who does an indispensable legislative work deserves. We have been very focused on the issue of cutting the cost of politics. Well; but we also want to focus on increasing the quality of the policy, the legislative activity and the work of our Chambers, as long as there are two, they will do the same things and then we will see what happens? I think that we must also pay attention to this aspect and, in this sense, have adequate staff in the area of competence and pay them as far as they are competent, otherwise, as far as we can say that we cut, we do not offer adequate service to our citizens. What our citizens are asking us to do is to cut costs, but above all to make good laws and to do them quickly, and this alone we cannot do: we need adequate, authoritative, competent and well-paid collaborators. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u16	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u17	Mr President, Senators Quaestors, ladies and gentlemen, the question now raised by the senators who preceded me deeply affects all of us who really rely on the cooperation of our parliamentary collaborators. Those of us who esteem our collaborator, those who appreciate their intelligence, generosity, creativity, rigour - for example in the formulation of amendments - support in the communication with the outside world, the delicacy in relations with the territory or, in any case, with the people closest to us, are well aware that the structural precariousness to which they are subjected cannot be tolerated so easily. Their fate is closely linked, in a sense, to what each of us will do, and it is precisely in this perspective that I want to speak this year, thinking that in this House, following the next elections, instead of 330 senators, there will be 200 of them. This basically means that 50% of these people will go home, but not just our collaborators will go home: the number of people working within the Groups will also be substantially reduced and they represent themselves in some way, not only at the personal level but at the level of the Group's dynamics, the thinking head and the beating heart of the Group's life. It is enough to think about what has happened these days with the multitude of amendments with which each of us has addressed them, sending a request, a suggestion, a proposal, an iter and we have always obviously found an intelligent and motivated listening, an operation over time. When next year (or when it will be) we will no longer be 330 but 200, the lives of all these people will become an absolute precariousness. If we then try to imagine the electoral projections that are there, we know how many people will go home. Each of us, rightly, suffers from the situation of the companies in crisis - we know that there are many working tables that Mr Toninelli had opened to the Ministry in order to meet the problems of the workers of the companies in crisis and in difficulty - but in some way this is also a company in crisis and in difficulty, because it runs the risk of sending home dozens and dozens of people whose intellectual wealth and generosity at the service of the country are absolutely proven. Each of us can guarantee for our collaborator and for the collaborator of our colleagues, we can guarantee for the work of our Group and for the work of the other groups. All these people are exposed to absolute insecurity. I have also spoken on other occasions on the same subject and I do not have a solution, but ladies and gentlemen, this time we are in an optimal situation, with the absolute savings that someone has intended to make by reducing the number of Members of Parliament both in the Senate and in the Chamber of Deputies. Well, what do we want to do with that savings? Do we want to invest it in what, if not in improving internal quality, to give greater guarantees to those who work within the institutions? We come out of this room and find here tapestries of extraordinary splendor and we know that the design that is woven on these tapestries needs a canvas below that supports the narrative of the story of that tapestry. Well, the same can be said of the canvas made by the structural, hidden, discreet, efficient skills of those who work here, with each of us, but - I insist - also in the Groups, because I consider them two different situations but both at high risk. We know what happened at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when many parties saw half the number of Senators or Members of their Group. How many people went home and found themselves, from today to tomorrow, without a job and without security! I believe that we have a moral obligation to think about this situation, with exactly the same sensitivity and with the same attention with which we think today of so many companies in which this is happening, of companies that close, because they restructure and change the rules of the game. However, changing the rules of the game cannot change the personal life and families of each of these people. We cannot be superficial and naive, nor can we imagine that this is an outsourced service, which therefore does not concern us. It is about us, because it is about our dignity as people, who work here but have open heads and hearts and "antennas" capable of perceiving the problems of people. I don't think it's easy to find solutions. No one knows how much remains of this legislature and no one knows what we'll find on the next round - whether the senators will be 200 or 315 or what there will be - but I think this is the time to think about these people. This is the time we are given, it is the time of our responsibility and it is a way to say a conscious thank you to people who do a service not only to us or to the Group, but to the country. I therefore ask the Senators, the Quaestors, my colleagues, the Presidency Council and anyone who has the power to do so, to take decisions in this field, without making another year in vain by saying that this situation does not concern them and by turning their heads on the other side. This institutional indifference is an integral part of the hostility of those who imagine politics as an exclusively self-referential reality. This is not the case, but we are here at the service of the country and the service is an orderly service, which begins by serving us to those we need. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u18	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again. The joint debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u19	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u20	I call Senator Commissioner De Poli.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u21	Mr President, the problem of parliamentary collaborators is quite well known and is important, thorny and difficult in relation to the path. By sharing the technical, professional and human aspect with regard to the path, however, I would like to specify the differences that exist in the Senate with respect to the other branch of Parliament because it is correct and fair to highlight them. We ask for a copy of the contract of employment and communication, which must be sent to the competent territorial offices of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy: this from a formal point of view. Moreover, any senator can ask for credit to the Senate of the Republic exclusively for the collaborators with whom he has established a working relationship of not less than six months, for consideration, and must deliver to the Police Department and the ceremonial copy of the contract concluded with his collaborator accompanied by a copy of the communication sent to the competent territorial services of the Ministry of Labour and social policies. Among other things, with a resolution made at the time, in the regulation of parliamentary collaborators, has been defined a minimum monthly performance of twenty-five hours, for 375 euros, as reported by the media. However, if this increases to forty hours a week, what a worker normally does, it means that the monthly compensation is 2,400 euros (if the hours are thirty-six, it is 2,160 euros): I am talking about minimum wages, then clearly they can have much more important, but these figures are higher than today's wages, for example for the higher qualifications of employees in professional studies, according to the national employment contracts in force. If we compare them with the working time provided for in the European Parliament (which stands at between forty and forty-two hours per week, then about forty-one hours per week), these salaries are equally slightly lower than those in Europe (about EUR 2,345,84 per month). If, therefore, we compare the forty hours per week with a compensation of EUR 2,400, we also fall within the parameters of the European Parliament itself. Therefore, taking into account the demands made by colleagues, as a College of Quaestors, we will also suggest in the Presidency Council that consideration be given to the possibility of identifying specific contractual types and methods of payment for parliamentary collaborators, in order to guarantee them a proportional and adequate remuneration for the work carried out, like the commitment of the Chamber of Deputies, with a view to finding a single solution. That is what I wanted to say to the colleagues who raised the point, in addition to specifying that, if things are done properly and in a serious and correct way compared to all the routes, the Senate cannot enter those who have not deposited a contract (at least twenty-five monthly hours) and have not sent it to the Ministry of Labour. I say this out of the correctness of the information in relation to what my colleagues have said, that clearly, as I have just said, it is always our attention and our assessment. However, since you have given me the floor, Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Senate and, in particular, all our collaborators, starting with the wonderful parliamentary assistants we have here in this House and in the Senate. [[Applause]] In fact, although they are often considered in a non-positive way on the outside, I think they do - I am sure of it - a great professional work of attention, many times also with us, in occasion of some intemperance not easy to hold back: I think this is an important aspect. With them all the other executives and staff of the Senate must also be clearly thanked, who work every day from the legislative, group or administrative point of view, in particular with us Senators Quaestors, from all the Heads of Office and Directors, from the Assembly Service to all the other Services of the Senate. Finally, I would like to thank the two Vice-Secretarys General of the Senate, Dr. Sandomenico and Dr. Toniato, and - not for the last, but indeed, precisely because it is the beating heart, as I said before also with the Presidents of the Commissions - the Secretary General, Dr. Elisabetta Serafin, for the work they do. Thank you to all our employees. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u24	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I will only take a handful of seconds to state first of all our support for the report and the draft internal budget. I do so, I say this and I declare it by expressing my appreciation, first of all, for the work done by the College of Quaestors and for the report by Senator Questre De Poli, who, using the words very well, illustrated the dynamic - which naturally convinces us - of the necessary reduction in the running costs of the Senate, which seems to me to be a trend which has been in place for some time now and which this Presidency Council is not only supporting but is working on; if I may say so, I also appreciated the language used to highlight this trend. You see, President, for me, the two issues are absolutely together. One thing is to stress the necessary skill of expenditure and also the reduction of costs in the name of greater efficiency of the machine; another - I am referring to the language that is often used in public debate, first of all by the Members themselves - to talk about everything that concerns the functioning of Parliament in terms of privilege, as if we were to saw something that represents a harp to be neutralized, to be smoothed, to be smoothed. So, language is substance. And we are doing exactly, or should do, this operation: not cutting privileges, but making the machine efficient and making it up to the challenges of contemporaneity, if I may use this expression. This is true of the functioning of the Senate and of that debate, echoed also in the previous speeches, on an aspect that will definitely change the face of Parliament, that is, the reduction of parliamentarians, on which we can agree or not but, for me, talking about that constitutional instrument as something that has to do only with the need to cut privileges is profoundly wrong. Finally, it applies to a debate - but this would obviously take us very far - on that public funding to the parties that perhaps we have done well to eliminate but to which due attention should be paid, also in the light of the facts that are going through Italian politics at this time. There are many points that concern us, Parliament and the functioning of the institutions at their highest level, which must be dealt with, not only in substance, but also accompanied by a set of arguments that are more appropriate and appropriate to the very meaning of democratic institutions. So, in this sense, our applause goes to the work that is being done, without repeating the figures that have already been mentioned. In this context, of course, I too would like to draw attention to the need - I would like to say at last - to the issue of parliamentary collaborators: not only because we need to give these figures a new profile and even a new dignity, but also because we owe it to ourselves. As some of my previous colleagues also said, it is the people who run the machine, but above all, they run the parliamentary work and, therefore, also political as well as legislative. I am talking about parliamentary collaborators as a piece of a machine that goes far beyond the perimeter that contains them. The problems, regarding staff and situations that must be corrected, even in the so-called Upper House, do not end there. These are problems on which the Presidency Council itself is paying due attention and, indeed, is also taking some concrete steps forward. Therefore, I appreciate the emphasis also on the specificity of the Senate that Senator De Poli was just doing in relation to the functioning of the figure of parliamentary collaborators in this House compared to the other, but we need - if we want to make the first of the class - also in this case to give a more concrete signal in this direction. I should like to end by thanking them, those I did at the beginning at the College of Quaestors and at the Presidency Council. There is a small conflict of interest, as I am also a member of that Council, but I believe that it is a thank you, in addition of course to the Secretary General, the structure of the Secretariat, the Directors of the Services and in general to all the staff who make this machine work and who project outside - let me say - even an element of reassurance. Where there is a professionalism, where politics is accompanied by this quality, it is also democracy, and perhaps above all democracy, that benefits. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u27	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the Senate's report and draft internal budget, as my colleague, Mr Conzatti, and my colleagues from the other political groups have also pointed out. Today's debate has testified precisely to the interest and political commitment of the various groups of majority and opposition so that this institution can continue along the virtuous path that has been undertaken for some time now. Allow me, in these few words, to address a very heartfelt thanks from all the Senators and Senators of the Group to all those who with passion, professionalism and great sense of the institutions work in this structure. I am speaking in particular of the Secretary General, Dr. Elizabeth Serafin, who is very grateful. I would also like to thank the Deputy Secretaries General, all the Directors of the Services, all our Heads of Office, all the staff who attend us daily and our Senators Quaestors, also for the words that have been well expressed before by Senator De Poli. This is a thank you that goes beyond the appreciation for the work done: it is a testament of deep confidence for all the work that they carry out daily at our side. I think the Senate of the Republic is setting an example of good politics, of what politics must and should always be every day. So, thank you and really good work to this important institution. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and L-SP-PSd'Az.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u30	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, Senators Quaestors love to propose to us, every time we deal with the issue of the Senate budget, the exemplifying graphs of the path that is being made and often the graph that is shown to us represents a straight line. This means that in all these years there has been an objective and it has been pursued with great coherence and determination. This must also be done at the College of Quaestors of the last legislature; in this legislature the line continues with the same inclination, demonstrating that, when we give ourselves goals, things do not happen immediately and instantly, but we must have perseverance and determination to continue over the years to give continuity to the actions and the path undertaken. This is precisely what has been done over these years, during which the Senate has followed a path of efficiency recovery; this is basically what has happened. The resources were spent better; it was noticed that there were resources that could be returned to the State and, with the same resources, the same things were done better; on the contrary, I say that more things have been done. There has been a reorganization and I believe that we must acknowledge this to the College of Quaestors, the Presidency and many others that I will then come to thank. It is clear that sometimes we may seem repetitive in dealing with these issues; but we must focus on what are the objectives, in order to be able to give continuity to the action we are pursuing. Of course, as has already been pointed out in other speeches, we are probably in the vicinity of a snapshot, of a great change, of something that will change the structure of our main institutions and therefore of Parliament. The reduction in the number of Members of Parliament must surely give us a more specific reflection on the future of the Chambers in their operation and organisation in order to enable the elected to carry out their tasks and services as best they can. Good results from the economic point of view, even in their numerical expression, have been said and, therefore, I do not repeat it. There are some issues on which we must confront ourselves - some have been mentioned - such as the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, who will be able to arrive and will certainly change the needs and working methods within the Chambers and which is part of a passage that we have already begun. There was an unlocking of the turnover in the Senate compared to the organic endowment, which had been subject to a reduction dynamic in recent years but which then needs to be developed again in certain sectors and positions to give full functionality to the administrative machine. An important work was then done in sharing some Services between Chamber and Senate. I think it was a very positive job: it was an objective that had been set and it seems to me that it was pursued with great organizational capacity (of this we have seen and counted every day in the work of various Offices). There has also been important rationalization work on calls for tender, the recovery of external services and, above all, investment. We certainly have a period in which the modernization of the structures and infrastructures of the Senate - we are considering it these days - will need investment. I believe that this is absolutely necessary and to be done, not only in terms of the value of the structures we live on a daily basis, but also because it is part of the quality of the work that we must ensure and that I believe we must be recognized, not only as elected, but also as professionals and workers of the structure. There is also an open theme which has been mentioned, but which I believe should be included in the more comprehensive reflection that we will have before us on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament: how all the Senate Services, including those serving the elected, are reduced and reformed if we come to the application of the constitutional reform that we have approved. I think we must start a work of reflection and deepening that leads us to understand how the structure evolves, how it adapts and how it is transformed, with the understanding of course to confirm the quality of the work that must be done. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary General, Dr Serafin, the Deputy Secretaries General and Directors of the Services. [[Applause.]] It is a thank you that means appreciation for the work done, as well as a certificate of deep trust. At the College of Quaestors, also on the basis of the determinations that will take place in the Senate Assembly, it will be up to the College of Quaestors to formulate in the coming months the proposals that illustrate the path and the initiatives to continue in this complex action of reorganization of our parliamentary institutions. I believe that these points should also be made with pride, because this is a path that comes from afar and we have all made our contribution in this regard. Last year, during the debate on the internal budget, I concluded my speech in a somewhat sad way because we were not represented within the College of Quaestors; this year there are no different conditions, but I do not have to stress the positive work done by the College of Quaestors who have taken care of the needs of the Institution; for this reason I thank them again and, of course, I announce the positive vote of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u33	NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group gives a positive overall assessment of the two documents under consideration. The first thanks go to the College of Quaestors, composed of Senators Arrigoni, De Poli and Bottici, and to the professionalism of the employees of the Administration of the Senate, the Secretary General and all his collaborators. The report just presented by Mr De Poli has been more than exhaustive and has highlighted a clear improvement in the accounts both in terms of the containment of expenditure and the rationalization of services. Thanks to the commitment we have made to reducing expenditure, including through greater attention to the issue of environmental impact and the digitisation of documents and processes, we can say that we are on the right path both from the point of view of the result of exercise, and that of the inspiring principles that have led to considerable savings in expenditure. As you can see, moreover, the financial weight of the Senate on public finance has been reduced in seven years by about 255 million euros and the budget has been reduced by as much as 151 million since the beginning of the last legislature. These figures indicate that the containment of expenditure is not simply a commercial, but a structural commitment that the Senate institution has taken with its citizens in years in which the economic and financial crisis has made all its weight felt on businesses and families. Another important signal is due to the rationalization of expenditure through the process of integration of the administrations of the Senate and the House, which led to the birth of the Parliamentary Documentation Pole and the Parliamentary Computer Pole, as well as the strengthening of the existing Parliamentary Library Pole and a closer collaboration between the Historical Archives. The continuation of rationalization of expenditure on staff, parliamentary allowances and social security expenditure are all measures that we appreciate and that we hope will continue in the future. The above-mentioned cost containment has not, however, affected the quality of services, as can be seen from the data listed in the report, which show that the Senate is a very virtuous body in terms of payment of invoices, with times within 36 days and with 98% of bills paid; these are very positive numbers that put our institution before the EU average and countries like France and Spain. Similarly, we welcome the timetable for public recruitment competitions, as decided by the Presidency at the end of July, which will allow about 120 new entries as coadjutors, assistants and parliamentary secretaries by the end of the year. The commitment to achieving savings from investment is certainly to be recorded. Evidence of this is the voices that concern investments in extraordinary maintenance aimed at redevelopment and energy efficiency, environmental protection, extraordinary maintenance aimed at the elimination of architectural barriers and those aimed at the redevelopment of areas adjacent to the palaces of the Senate; interventions that we hope can be realized as soon as possible, which will bring additional savings on the accounts and a better use of the spaces. With the great awareness that even today our country is going through a long period of economic crisis, we must feel the responsibility to manage the resources of Italians with attention and sparingness. We must not forget that we are all here representing the people and we cannot allow ourselves to disappoint their expectations. That is why, aware that we are on the right track, we are sure that the College of Quaestors and the Presidency Council and all of us will make a commitment to continue along this path. For all these reasons, we will naturally vote in favour of the documents under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u36	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, again this year the work of optimising the Senate Administration continues, a work that has allowed a strong reduction in expenditure and an improvement in the services provided, in the work and in the overall functioning of the Senate. For this I want first of all to thank the Senators Quaestors, Antonio De Poli, Laura Bottici and Paolo Arrigoni, for the work they have done, which consists of a daily commitment to intervene in concrete terms on the various aspects of the Administration. The declarations are not enough, the conclusions are not enough, which are shown on this day, but there must be a previous work, which must be thorough and careful not to affect the functionality of our very important institution, even in reducing expenditure. I would remind you that of the sum of EUR 544 million, which makes up the total expenditure, 230 million is social security expenditure; therefore the real budget of the Senate is about 314 million, which would be the figure of any other administration of the State that had these expenses. Obviously, in fact, such expenses relating to the employees of a Ministry, an agency or an institution of the State are borne by the social security institutions and are not charged to the institution of belonging; therefore, the real exits of the Senate amount to little more than 300 million euros. This is an important point to stress. I believe that we will have to think very carefully also in the event that the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament comes to an end, which does not reduce the work that the Senate must do, but simply divides it in a different way. It is clear that the Senate will have to continue to do the same work and therefore there will be a reasoning to do; it is totally out of place to think that, in the face of a reduction of more than 30 percent of the senators, there is an equal reduction of all other expenses, which, if anything, will require some particular attention. I would like to thank President Alberti Casellati, all the staff of the Senate, starting with the Secretary General, Elisabetta Serafin, and all her collaborators. Today is the day on which we are obliged, but it is a welcome and proper obligation. The staff of the Senate has a great responsibility, they carry out a difficult and delicate job, day by day; very often we senators do not notice it and outside even less. But, especially in these days, when we have the pinnacle of work related to the draft budget law, we know how burdensome and challenging the work that the Senate structure is called to do, always with all the support and with all the safeguards that are necessary for such an operation. Of course, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of the internal budgetary documents that are presented, in the certainty that the proper administration of the Senate is aimed mainly at the objective that this institution does well the work that the Constitution assigns to it, that is to make the laws, to exercise the necessary control over the activity of Government and to listen to the demands of citizens. This is the work that the Senate structure must do and the internal budget must be aimed at these objectives, which the Constitution assigns to us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Classical High School and the Human Sciences "Annibal Caro" of Fermo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u40	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to approve the Senate's internal forecast budget for 2019. Well, among the various improvements that have allowed significant savings in recent years - I am very fond of the appreciation expressed by my colleagues before me about the professionalism and competence of the officials and all the employees of the Senate in general - there are, however, some comments that I cannot help but share with you. Transparency in the use of public money is in fact an indispensable imperative in this place, because from here it radiates then, for good or evil, to the whole country. We legislate and cannot afford to be anything less than extremely transparent in the use we make of the money that is made available to us for the expenses for the exercise of the mandate. I am referring, of course, in particular to that part of the reimbursement which is still flat-rate and is intended for the remuneration of employees. In fact, we know that of the 4,180 euros which go under the heading of "reimbursement" for mandate expenses, half of the sum, i.e. EUR 2,090, must be reported, while the remaining half is paid on a flat-rate basis, i.e. without any need to show what part and how it has been spent. This not only represents a lack of transparency, but also exposes to the very uncommendable risk of referees the weaker possible contractor, namely the parliamentary collaborator who should be the recipient of those sums. It would therefore be desirable, indeed necessary, for the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors to finally decide - as we have been asking for a long time - that the whole sum should be reported in order to be delivered and not only half of the EUR 4,180 allocated to the expenditure on the mandate. In addition, we are pleased that Article 118.2, heading "Development of equal opportunities policies" is also included in the 2019 forecast budget, with an estimated budget of EUR 550,000. However, from the examination of the Senate's revenue and expenditure statements for the years 2015 to 2018, it is clear that the amounts allocated in the above-mentioned chapter of expenditure to develop equal opportunities policies have never actually been spent, having been realized in each of the years considered an economy on the appropriations exactly equal to the final budget forecasts. In this case too, it is hoped that, for their respective competences, the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors for the future will agree that the amounts earmarked for the development of equal opportunities policies will actually be used for the intended purpose. So, apart from these comments and recommendations, which we hope will be taken into account for the future, I am voting in favour of my Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u41	Inviting colleagues to take their seats, I also take the opportunity to personally thank the Administration and Senators Quaestors. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the Vice Presidents and Secretary Senators, whom no one thanked. [[Applause]] I rejoice with the quaestor senators for the work done, because today for the first time - and I would not wish it to be a "non coincidence" - I ate at the buvette a mature pear. [[Applause]] This is the first time since 2001 that has happened to me and I hope that it will not happen again only on the day that the Senate votes its budget. Senator De Poli, you understand me. I indicate the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2018 (Doc. VIII, No 3). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2019 (Doc. VIII, No 4). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u42	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u44	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, we have just talked about budgets and your words have certainly sealed a debate that we have all animated or to which we have contributed. With regard to the costs of institutions and politics, I would like to make a request regarding the order of business, because I have noted a lot of moralization in the words of several colleagues, but I have also seen that there are colfs who are actually friends who do not take the contributions and popular houses assigned or not reassigned. Since there is a very delicate debate over the last few hours concerning a former member of the Government, I would like to ask you to discuss urgently the question that I have put to Minister Guerini about the criteria for allocating housing to the Ministry of Defence, so that we can get to the removal of housing as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We've all read the news reports from the newspapers that the former Minister assigned to her husband. LANZI (M5S). This is not an intervention on the order of business! Gasparri (FI-BP). And we've gotten tired of moralization a lot per kilo, colfs without contributions, houses in Olbia and houses to husband Major. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] One is worth one, thirty is worth zero! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u45	Not relevant to the order of business. It has nothing to do with it, and the representative of the Government is not here to ask for action.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u48	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, this kind of expression is not good, and it is not good for the order of business at the end of the sitting. Since there are no interventions at the end of the session, Senator Gasparri can do the surgery tomorrow if he wants. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What is more, what it is referring to is an affair that connects to the Parliamentary Commission for the general direction and supervision of broadcasting services, where we have today audited Minister Patuanelli. First he didn't say anything, and then he came up with this, accusing Rai. So he's also a little fake and a liar. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u49	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-166.ana.u50	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 20 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.50 p.m.)
