ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1315 already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Mangialavori to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u5	Mr President, I am here to present our preliminary question concerning the decree-law proposed by the Government, called the Calabria Decree. The measure under consideration, consisting of seventeen articles and three heads, is yet another presented by the Government in office, whose political components - it is worth remembering - in previous legislatures had always stigmatized the appeal and misuse of the decree of urgency. The rules contained in the first articles of Chapter I - according to us and according to the Constitution - undermine the principle of concurrent legislation, as they represent a clear limitation of the role of the Region in the management of the health service. Some provisions do not seem to take account of the need to respect the articulation of institutional structures: Article 2, for example, gives the Commissioner additional power over what is provided for in the return plan, that of extraordinary verification of the activities of the directors-general of health companies and those hospitallers and university hospitals. Moreover, the appointment of the special commissioners of the individual companies is attributed to the government commissioner, rather than - as it should be - to the president of the Regional Council, which impoverishes the functions of control of the latter. Article 3 states that, in the event of the Director-General's negative assessment, the Commissioner ad acta, after agreement with the Regions, and with the rector, in the case of university hospital companies, shall appoint an extraordinary commissioner; in the absence of agreement, the Council of Ministers shall appoint the Commissioner or the Director-General. Article 4 stipulates that special Commissioners must carry out regular, and in any case within 60 days of appointment or positive evaluation... [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u6	Forgive me for a moment, Senator Eatwork, if I interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u7	Colleagues, it is hard to hear the speech from the Presidency, so please take a more silent place. Please, Senator Eatworks, continue. MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). I was saying that, within sixty days of the appointment or the positive assessment carried out by the Commissioner ad acta, the extraordinary Commissioners must carry out a review of the activities of the administrative and health directors of their companies, aimed at ascertaining the competences of the latter and at verifying whether their work has been positive or not. Article 5 extends to the health companies of the Calabria Region the discipline provided for the local authorities in the matter of failure, previewing that the declaration of failure follows however to a general verification on the management of the agency carried out by the extraordinary commissioners. Chapter I of the Decree-Law is entirely dedicated to special provisions for the Calabria Region, times, as specified in Article 1, to restore compliance with the essential levels of health care (referred to in Article 117, second paragraph, point m) of the Constitution), as well as to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the plan of return from the deficits of the regional health service according to its operational programmes. All the proposed actions are defined as extraordinary regulatory measures, taken for a limited period of 18 months, with which Calabrian health is to be accompanied by "normal" administrative situations. The same Commissioner ad acta is empowered to dismiss the Directors-General and appoint an Extraordinary Commissioner; he also has the power to appoint Extraordinary Commissioners without special requirements, but in a completely discretionary manner. Even in these cases the Government assumes the power that the Constitution assigns to the Regions. The failure of the Commissioner's instrument, which has contributed to the worsening of health care in Calabria, should be noted without reducing either the debt or the health deficit, and a structural shortage of staff should also be created, due to the turnover blockade, which will then reverberate on the essential levels of care. Yet the Government, instead of eliminating such criticalities, with a Farzacco decree-law is thinking of assigning to itself only the possibility of naming persons, personal and personal. The heterogeneity of the matter in a decree-law constitutes an improper impoverishment of the legislative competence of the Chambers and the will of the Government to realize its own program or to render operational with immediacy some of its decisions cannot become prevalent on the peculiar nature of the decree-law. In addition, it cannot be the Commission's means to introduce provisions and to preserve presumptuously and in any case the effects of the 60 days of validity of the urgent decree, regardless of the conversion into law of the individual rules enacted. For all these reasons, we do not believe that the draft law No 1315 of 2019 should be examined. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u8	I call Senator Collina to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the League and 5 Stars have been ruling the country for a year, and this is the first government measure in the area of health that comes to the House. I understand the need to address in-depth discussions and to modify by the Government of Change all the structures of the Ministry, consultative bodies and the composition of many commissions resulting from the appointments of the old Government. After a year of activity, however, seeing the measure under discussion arrive in this Chamber, it is extremely perplexing. In the last parliamentary term we had proposed an amendment to the Constitution so that, in the event of a financial breakdown at regional level, the powers relating to certain areas could be invoked under the law of the State (this was the amendment of Article 120 of the Constitution). In order to implement Decree-Law No 35 of 2019 you would have had to vote yes to the [[referendum (Applause from the PD Group),]] because there are no constitutional conditions and conditions for issuing a decree-law of this type: as a Constitution unchanged, the Government must in fact confer with the Regions and take into account regional competences in order to be able to intervene in a matter such as health. With the measure in question you do not do it: expel a Region in ways and forms, without the constitutional prerequisites to be able to do so, and then intervene on the most comprehensive and general aspects of Italian health always in the same measure. Here are two decrees, and not just one: one concerns the emergency situation in the Calabria Region; in the other you put hand to a series of problems present in our country regarding health, which in part - we must say - you have helped to generate. To launch a measure as a 100 quota without imagining its repercussions and consequences on the national public system, in particular health, now throws into serious difficulty all the health of our country. A question is therefore being asked today, with the following premises: after a year you have not yet put an organic hand to Italian health, because you obviously do not have an idea. Problems exist. As I have already said, we had thought of going upstream, setting the conditions for taking significant action on Italian health care. This has not happened and, therefore, today with the question before us we give you the opportunity to return to the Commission to try to respond to the needs not only of Calabria, but also of the rest of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u10	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u13	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I immediately declare that we care about the health of all citizens, no less than the Calabrians and, therefore, the presentation of the question for a preliminary ruling does not go against those citizens, of course. However, we have the impression that the decree-law under consideration, in addition to presenting defects of constitutionality, is messy and, as often happens with the measures of this Government, we are faced with an omnibus text. It seems to us above all that there is a clear violation of the autonomy of the Calabria Region, since any form of collaboration has been lacking, also mentioned in the opinion expressed by the State-Regions Conference, thus skipping all the basic rules of a loyal collaboration between the State and the Regions. Among other things, it was decided to intervene audienceally - since the decree-law was planned and even presented in Calabria - showing great interest - yes - for the Region. The Government, however, considered the much work done, could have taken the opportunity not only to make a provisional act, as often happens (since it has a validity of eighteen months), but also to create perhaps a prototype, a standard useful to prefigure a new system for all the other Regions of the Country, because not only does Calabria exist. It is known, however, that everything is done in a very temporary way, de facto derogating from pre-established rules and even introducing considerable discretion and not already objective criteria (I mean, for example, the recruitment of staff). The decree-law under consideration has the prerogative of overcoming also the roles of the judiciary and the Court of Auditors. Despite the roboating announcements made, nothing has been said about the reorganization of the staff of the health of the Calabria Region, obviously in difficulty, with the same spectre of the future retirements of 100 of which also the colleague who preceded me, that they will create ulterior gaps of staff. Even if there has been talk of urgency, the decree-law is in fact a normal plan of return: it is true that for many years the Calabria Region and especially the Calabrian citizens endure it, but here there is the claim to reset everything to the sound of commissioners, without however ever mentioning, in addition to the pedisseque economic control, another monitoring that we consider of fundamental importance, namely the raising of the essential levels of assistance, currently of very low level, because monitored by Agenas (National Agency for Regional Health Services). In this decree-law, however, there is absolutely no mention of it. Chapter II, then, which is additional - that is why we believe the measure is unconstitutional, because it brings together two different issues - brings urgent measures in the field of health, in clear violation of the rule that requires the content of a decree-law to be homogeneous. The specialized training, especially of doctors (the important ones, of general medicine), would certainly have deserved a measure in its own right, obviously with the most important interlocutors. In this case, the Ministry of Health, together with the commissioners, does the good and the bad weather, without even once mentioning the expression "in agreement with the Ministry of Education." We know that specialization schools are in charge of universities. It took amendments which included in addition cooperation with the rectors of companies, where there are university ones. The whole reorganization of scholarships in the light of health deficiencies, which were also created with the advent of pensions, has not been taken into account. The same applies to funds to cover further scholarships, without forgetting that huge inequalities are contained in the text of the decree-law, in turn on the margins of unconstitutionality. In this regard - for example - the conferral of managerial duties, there is an irrational disparity of treatment in violation of a principle of equality between specialised doctors and in the course of specialization. These inequalities are such that there will undoubtedly be appeals from the parties involved, with additional expenditure for the community and for all of us. In the light of all these inequalities, we believe that there really is room for a preliminary constitutionality. For this reason, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling so as not to proceed with the examination of a decree-law which is nothing more than propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u16	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been exactly a year since we at Forza Italia denounced the Calabrian health emergency for the first time in this House, before the Government that presented itself to the Senate of the Republic, on June 5, 2018. Just a year ago we told and explained to the Government that there was an emergency in Calabria, the health problem that today you plan to start to solve with the measure under consideration, which instead - in our opinion - worsens the situation. On June 5, we illustrated the problems that we lived in those days in Calabria and that you will all remember well, because they were a scandal at national level: six out of six lifts did not work in a hospital, so patients were carried on the shoulders by doctors, and the medicines were missing at the Great Metropolitan Hospital in Reggio Calabria due to lack of resources. Since then, we at Forza Italia have fought a battle for Calabria, a land often forgotten by everyone and perhaps even by the Calabrians, or at least by some. [[Brusio.]] I ask you in the majority to respect the Calabrians and to listen politely: we are talking about the decree-law on the health situation in Calabria that you have presented to this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u17	Senator Siclari, I have already called the House to greater attention. Continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u18	SICLARI (FI-BP). With this decree-law you are trampling on Article 32 of the Constitution: that is why it is unconstitutional. That article, in fact, is one of the few in which the adjective "fundamental" is present, which is implemented in the National Health Service, which has turned forty-one years, but - alas - in the last fifteen months is at risk of sustainability, since you have done nothing but reduce the resources allocated to it. Now you are also questioning the principles underlying Article 32 of the Constitution and the National Health Service, namely the fairness, equality and universality of care. Colleagues, you came to Calabria a few months ago, after we submitted twenty-four parliamentary questions about the health emergency of that region and over one hundred national agencies, one every three days, to inform you of what is happening there and of the emergency that we live on our skin. You came to Calabria to say that you would solve the problem and now come to the House with a decree-law that speaks not of health care, but only of the occupation of armchairs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Decree-Law under consideration promotes an instrument that has failed in Calabria for ten years, the Commission for Health, which has increased public debt and mobility, and has not managed to guarantee the return plans. The Calabrians who take care of themselves out are more every year, even under the authority imposed by the State, and certainly not by themselves, and you come to the House to present the solution of supercommissiaring Calabria. Which scientist have you thought of sending to that reality to solve the problem that has failed to solve any commissioner in the last ten years? And it wasn't Calabrian commissioners. We want to know him, and I don't think he is Cotticelli, a person I esteem, certainly qualified and adequate for our territory. Did it really need a decree-law to appoint a new commissioner, raising such a mess? Were there a lot of propaganda and demagogy? It was enough to appoint Cotticelli instead of former Commissioner Scura, without announcing a decree-law that has nothing new, does not speak of health care and does not provide a single euro for health care in Calabria. On the contrary, something new is there: there is the possibility to ask for the failure of the ASP (Public Service Company to the person), so to start from scratch. I would like to say - as my colleague Mr Mallegni would - that you are phenomena. Destroying ASPs means destroying healthy companies that have been waiting for two and a half years to be paid and will not see a euro! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You will send home those healthy employees who have been working for twenty or twenty-five years in healthy companies, because the judiciary is careful and aware of us and, therefore, works and supervises with extreme care on the territory. The companies that today in Calabria have been working for about thirty years have been and still are controlled punctually by the investigators and the judiciary, which carries out a noble work in that Region, for the Calabrians and to guarantee democracy and our rights. Healthy farms living in a difficult environment should not be punished with a failure. We have therefore tabled an amendment calling for them to be treated as privileged creditors and paid for them. Precisely because they are healthy and not infiltrated by organized crime in a difficult territory, they must be rewarded by the Government. Even our prosecutors say that politics must encourage healthy companies, especially in difficult territories, and not punish them, because you think, starting from scratch, to solve the problem of Calabria: let's start with what is healthy and protect it. You, with your decree-law, hit everyone, so those who have worked and lived honestly are treated like those who cheat the state and have collusions with organized crime. Make an examination of conscience because, when you ask and accept the failure of the ASP of Reggio Calabria, already arrived to the commissioner of that city, the companies that have not been paid for two and a half years will close all. I receive calls every day from desperate people, who have given life to their activities and have never had problems with justice, even in a difficult territory like the Calabrian one, because they are healthy. On the other hand, the decree-law under consideration, in addition to Article 32 of the Constitution, tramples on the dignity of all Calabrians. It was supposed to be a health care decree-law, while it seems to certify that this government looks at the Calabrians as criminals. This is the problem: the measure under consideration looks at the Calabrians as criminals. You have excluded the sole purchasing power station of Calabria, convinced that there may be dirt there too, but it does not show up to date. You have built a decree-law on the basis of such prejudice, which will lead to increased mobility and the closure of healthy laboratories; it will lead people who work honestly to no longer have work, because they will close health facilities, and children will be forced to wait long waiting lists for a simple withdrawal and the elderly to give up treatment. On June 18 the Calabrians will be in Piazza Montecitorio to ask the Government respect and listen. The honest Calabrians, that day, will come here simply to ask to be looked into the eyes, because they have honesty inside and maybe they are much more honest than many other politicians who cry out "honesty, honesty and honesty" and who do not care about protecting the healthiest part of Calabria, which deserves instead of being helped and not killed, because inhabited only by criminals. Our appeal invites you to consider very carefully the amendments and to make them yours: we are interested not in the adoption of the first-signed amendment by Siclari or Bernini, but in the adoption of our amending proposals because they come from the territory and serve to help those citizens who are most in difficulty today, since - as you have also seen - there is a health emergency. Solve the problem, then. I would like to thank my colleagues who have joined me in the work of the Health and Health Commission: I particularly thank the Senators Rizzotti, Boldrini and Stabile, as well as my colleague Mangialavori and the Leader Bernini, because they have made my person feel the closeness of the party to all the Calabrians. For this reason, we will continue the battle in the Senate all together, as a Group, because the Calabrians need to really feel Italian citizens and not because we tell them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u21	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, to me who are not a phenomenon - and I look at it well, Mr Mallegni; indeed, for this very reason I cultivate doubt every day - the measure we are examining raises a lot of concerns, starting with the debate we are now facing. I would remind you that the measure is still in the Commission and could therefore be drastically amended or even mutilated in all its parts, since the debate is still open. I would therefore like to discuss a preliminary question, and I repeat this, which raises doubts, but I agree with it, in an ongoing attempt to increase my knowledge. There are also other aspects which lead the Brothers of Italy Group to vote in favour of both the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, which we consider to be entirely justified. The measure before us, Mr President, is a treasonous raid on very important matters and, in the usual style of the Minister of Health - as a member of the Health and Health Commission I observe it closely every day - adopts three very important reforms. The first reform is that of justice - but I do not know if you, colleagues, have noticed this - while the second is that of the university and the third is that of health care. In the six articles, apart from the first ten concerning the Calabria emergency, the measure, colleagues phenomena, adopts three fundamental reforms, all motivated, partially necessary and, in some respects, even urgent, but it is not possible to deal with those issues in such a way. It is - I repeat - an unconscious, superficial and sloppy incursion, which takes into account enormous problems. I quote only one: the lack of medical personnel. A recent study by the National Association of Doctors and Managers of the National Health Service (ANAAO) estimates around 20,000 missing professionals over the next three years. It is a very serious problem that everyone knows, but that absolutely cannot be solved in this way. We shall discuss the substance of the measure in this House at least next week, Mr President, because I do not know when it will happen precisely. Given that we will begin to vote on the amendments in the Commission as from next week, we could resume the examination of the measure in fifteen days' time. Instead of the substance of the matter, which I have heard from my previous colleagues, I stand by the form and the exception of the constitutionality of the measure under consideration to express my complete agreement with the concerns raised in the two questions and therefore, in line with what has been said, I declare my Group's support for both the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u24	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, especially to the majority who proposed this decree-law. We support the prejudices because the measure is clearly unconstitutional; indeed, in relation to issues relating to the relationship with regional competences, I would point out that - a few minutes ago we were hearing in the Commission on the implementation of fiscal federalism - we are discussing differentiated autonomy (paragraph 3 of Article 116). This is a decree-law that tore apart the current competences of the Regions without any problem, and this is already unconstitutional. The even more worrying fact is that it does not only concern the problems of the Calabria Region: it deals with a series of emergencies of an orderly nature in health care regardless of any plant and any reasoning. In this case the reason for urgency does not exist and I do not understand how the Ministry of Health thinks about dealing with the emergency health and the national health system in such terms. It is an intervention "anything" that basically does one thing: it focuses powers, it does not resolve the order and it does not solve it now and it will not do so in the future either the problems with regard to the issue of both staff and professionals - it was also said by colleagues before me that we are in emergency - that strategically of residents, an issue which includes a problem of resources. That's not gonna happen. We do not address the problem of how doctors will be and are recruited into the National Health Service, creating a temporary system without any kind of control. The problem is very serious and serious. There's an emergency, but that's not how you deal with it. In this way one simple thing is said: "we are in charge of health and these points." But this is unconstitutional. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u25	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the preliminary question submitted, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Marcucci and other senators (QP2), referring to the bill n. 1315. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u26	The next item is the debate on the bill No 920-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Nisini, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u27	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief and will explain the changes that the House of Deputies has made to the provision that we have at third reading today. I would remind you that Article 1 introduces the three-year plan of concrete actions for the efficiency of public administrations and establishes, in the Department of Public Service, the Core of concreteness, responsible for verifying the implementation of concrete actions for the improvement of the efficiency of public administrations. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u28	Senator Nisini, I'm sorry to interrupt, but it's hard to work well with such a noise. Colleagues, please lower your voice or silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u29	Please, Senator Nisini, continue. Ms Nisini, rapporteur. As I said, the House of Deputies has made very specific changes to Article 1. In addition to the reference to the principles of transparency and digitisation of public administrations, a time limit is introduced for public administrations to notify the implementation of corrective measures. It is also expected that the annual report of the Department of Civil Service on the results of inspections and visits will also be sent to the relevant parliamentary committees. With regard to Article 2, I would remind you that it provides for the introduction of biometric identity verification systems and video surveillance of access for public administration employees, for the purpose of verifying compliance with working time, as well as providing a general principle on the performance of the service at the place of work by public administration managers. The Chamber of Deputies has made the following changes: a reference is made to the principle of proportionality set out in Article 52 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; the teaching and educational staff of institutions and schools of all order and grade and educational institutions are excluded from the scope of this Article and it is specified that the managers of the same institutions, schools and institutions are subject to verification exclusively for the purpose of verifying access, in accordance with the procedures laid down in a ministerial regulation. The Chamber of Deputies has deleted the original Article 3, relating to resources intended for the ancillary economic treatment of public administration staff, since this article has meanwhile been absorbed by Article 11 (1) and (2) of Decree-Law No 135 of 14 December 2018, converted with amendments by Law No 12 of 11 February 2019. The current limit for recruitment by state administrations, including autonomously regulated, and by non-economic national public agencies and bodies, is confirmed and amendments and additions to the rules on procedures for recruitment by these administrations are made, including transitional provisions. The changes made to the Chamber to Article 3 include professional figures with high competences in the field of public accounting and financial management, among those whose recruitment must be envisaged as a priority, in the context of the preparation of the three-year plans of the staff needs of the aforementioned administrations. It is specified that the competition procedures relating to the administrations in question for the three years 2019-2021 and falling within the scope referred to in paragraph 4 (b) are carried out by the Department of Civil Service, and for the above procedures are set out certain specific criteria and faculties concerning the examination commissions, the sub-committees, the typology and the modalities of carrying out the examination tests, the scores related to the qualifications. It is envisaged, inter alia, that examination tests may be preceded by a pre-election test if applications for participation in the competition are more than twice the number of places awarded. The Department of Public Service is expected to develop a recruitment portal for the collection and management of applications for participation in public competitions and the stages of competition procedures, including through the creation of the candidate's electronic file. In Article 3, changes have also been made to all public administrations and to various profiles relating to recruitment and mobility procedures. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u30	Forgive me, Senator Nisini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u31	Now I really need to call you back, colleagues. Please, Senator Nisini, continue your relationship. Ms Nisini, rapporteur. Thank you, President. Mr President, I would ask that the written text of the report be annexed to the Reports of today's sitting, as I am synthesizing it in view of the little interest that has been shown in this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Ms Nisini, rapporteur. Article 4 was introduced to the House. Paragraph 1 extends to other civil servants the rules allowing, so far only for certain categories of staff, the placement in leave without cheques for the carrying out of activities with subjects and bodies, public or private, also operating internationally, and amends the rules on the duration of the same expectation. In the case of carrying out activities with entities other than public administrations, the placement on leave may not exceed five years. With reference to this last hypothesis, the novella allows the renewal, for a single time. Paragraph 2 admits for civil servants placed on leave, for the purpose of starting professional and entrepreneurial activities, the renewal, for a single time, of the same. It is recalled that this expectation is granted by the administration, taking into account organisational needs, after examination of the documentation produced by the person concerned. In the following article 5 there is a specific discipline for the problems posed by the resolution by Consip SpA of certain agreements for the provision of food vouchers for civil servants. The Chamber has added paragraphs 5 and 6 concerning the introduction of the obligation, on the part of the companies issuing food vouchers, to provide a guarantee guarantee. In Article 6, containing the final provisions and the safeguard clause, relating to the Regions under Special Statute and the Autonomous Provinces, the Chamber made only a change of coordination, in relation to the aforementioned deletion of the original Article 3. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u32	The minority rapporteur, Senator Parente, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u33	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u34	Mr President, I shall be speaking on the three main issues that the measure before us at the third reading. These are six articles that Senator Nisini, the majority rapporteur, has just outlined. However, there are three key issues: the establishment of the Core of Concreteness, measures to combat absenteeism and measures to accelerate targeted recruitment and generational replacement. I begin with this last question in order to continue to reiterate our opposition - other colleagues will intervene in this regard later - to the measure, which is very high sounding because it speaks of the future, of generational replacement, fundamental for a public administration whose staff is below that of other European countries and with a very high level of service seniority. The only additions that the House has made to you concern, within the framework of the Three-Year Plan of concrete actions for the efficiency of public administrations, actions aimed at ensuring the correct application of the provisions on organization, operation, transparency and digitisation: these last two words are the only additions in the text that came to us from the House. These two naturally important words, transparency and digitalization of the public administration, are further evidence that the Core of concreteness was not needed, because it is a clear overlap with the Inspectorate for the public service, with the Unit for the simplification and quality of regulation and, in part, with the functions of the DAC. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said a lot at first reading, but coming here I came to mind Kafka's Castle - an unfinished novel and, if there were a novel Kafka, we would complete it with this measure - when the farmer called to the castle to carry out his work realizes that it is practically unattainable, until he talks with the mayor, who tells him that there is a mistake and does not have to be a surveyor, so much so that he goes to the janitor: a disguidance due to the complexity of the administration. So the castle, the bureaucratic machine that Mr. K meets, is made up of secretaries and officials who come and go, write minutes about everything, but access to the castle is a difficult task. Allow me, Mr President, to quote a precise quote from this beautiful novel: The castle has many entrances. Now the one is in vogue, and all pass from there; now the other, and the first is deserted. Under what rules these changes have not yet been discovered. We, on the other hand, need a single, easy, simple and accessible entry into the public administration. All officials who go and come, as the Core of concreteness requires, will drive away the efficiency and effectiveness of administrative actions, also because there are 52 compared to 3 million. Our proposal was to make the existing one work, to strengthen both economically and in terms of instruments that already exist, in order to give efficiency to the public administration. Article 2 provides for the introduction of biometric identity verification and access surveillance systems for employees of all public administrations. Undersecretary, how many discussions, how much litigation have we had on this? I would also refer you to the report at first reading. The House has added an important reminder, which, moreover - as the rapporteur and the Undersecretary will remember - was a proposal of the Democratic Party which has failed here. He added the reference to the principles of proportionality under Article 52 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Still, in this measure - the intervention of the norms remains unchanged despite the addition to the Chamber - has not listened to what is also supported by the Guarantor for the protection of personal data both in the Senate and in the Chamber: the forecast of the mandatory use of two systems of verification of the respect of working time (collection of biometric data, i.e. fingerprints or control of the iris - of this we are talking - and video surveillance) surely exceeds the limit of the right to the protection of personal data. During the examination of the Chamber there was also an intervention on a specific field of public administration: the school. The school is very different from the other sectors of public administration. In the second reading in the Chamber, therefore, the school staff and teachers were excluded from biometric checks and video surveillance, with the exception of the managers of the institutions subject to verification of the observance of working time exclusively for the purpose of verifying access: this says the text Chamber transmitted to the Senate in third reading. I would add that there is common sense in politics. Can you imagine a principal, a school manager who, in the entrance to school, is subjected to video surveillance and digital control of fingerprints or iris? The irrationality of the norm is clear: the principals, the school managers are not linked to an office but very often to more complex and do not have a well-defined contractual time; the managers are legal representatives of the school institution, so they must ensure relations with local authorities, ASLs and territorial associations. Moreover, such intervention violates the principle of equality, because some school workers are discriminated against by managers. Colleagues and colleagues, there is a final call from Andis arrived yesterday; there are appeals from CGIL, CISL and UIL, as well as the demonstration of the unions of school leaders. As a mother, as an aunt, as a citizen, as an institution representative, I know what a school manager does. Many times we mothers stop the principals and the managers in the entrance of the school or along the sidewalk as they walk and, therefore, there is the risk that the school manager, who has so much responsibility, and to whom we entrust the lives of our children, no longer looks in the face, in the eyes neither parents nor students. They are already full of appeals: days ago a principal came to me to complain about the amount of bureaucracy that exists. There is a risk that they will become very attentive - rightly - to the observance of working time, but less attentive to the nature of the school institution, to the meaning and prestige of their role. We entrust to them the education and growth of our children. Let us therefore make one final appeal for the rule to be changed. In general, this is an unjustified and unreasonable rule - as I said before - also because there is no motivation to subject school principals and school managers to the observance of working time. There should be a greater reason for absenteeism, but it is not there, and so it is even more unreasonable. It is clear that none of us in this House thinks that we should not punish those who do not observe working time. I remember that at first reading and I repeat it now. The Madia reform has accentuated this theme: Article 55-c of Legislative Decree n. 165 of 2001 (the Single Text on Public Employment), as amended by Legislative Decrees n. 116 of 2016 and n. 75 of 2017, speaks of disciplinary dismissal for false attestation of compliance with the service. I am referring to my report at first reading, which contained the relevant data. Those who do not observe working time must be punished and the rules already exist. To assume, however, that all 3 million public managers, in general, do not observe working time, so we intervene with such a rule, I believe it is profoundly unfair and wrong. I know there is a climate, many are fed by the present majority, of the one against the other. Some of my colleagues at first reading, even quite rightly, said that in this way those who work honestly work more quietly; I understand these reasons, but we need not this, but a public administration that is really aimed at efficiency and effectiveness. In the article dealing with recruitment, there is no mention of evidence of role-skills, of what an innovative public administration should do. Instead, we talk about mnemonic tests and this represents the loss of a great opportunity. We had proposed that the 35 million envisaged for this measure be used for training, for spirit of service and body, but there is no trace of this. It is very important and beautiful what President Casellati said yesterday in remembering Enrico Berlinguer, namely that he was a party man and not a partisan. I believe that interventions on public administration should not be biased, because civil servants are the most valuable asset in our community. We need to rebuild a community and not divide it. I hope that, until the end, the majority will repent at least on some fundamental points which do not exalt the great role played by our servants of the State, but which on the contrary debase it. Let's hope someone gets repented at the third reading. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u35	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked Senator Laus to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u36	Mr President, after reading in the first versions the so-called draft law on concreteness, linked to the 2019 budget law, there was someone, including myself, who thought nothing worse could come to the House's attention and, in a spirit of optimism, or if you want because of a drift of despair, it was believed that, at the bottom of the formal confusion, practical uselessness and legislative unreasonableness, we could only go back up. But the changes introduced by the Chamber of Deputies, which led the Senate to face the third reading of the provision, have overturned all our predictions. Colleagues and colleagues - as I said - it seems impossible to do worse and instead here we are with a text that, in addition to keeping the initial criticalities intact, reveals more, even where we see the attempt to improve the measures planned to guarantee the concreteness of the actions of public administrations and the prevention of absenteeism. This means, in a nutshell, that the bill serves as an original sin, a sin of approach, method, vision. Yet, from these benches the alarm was ringed right away. We said yesterday, and let's say today, that it is not criminalising an entire category of workers and workers, treating them all as potential sly and presumed idlers, that we can give momentum and restore credibility to the public sector. Therefore, at this stage, the highly negative judgment already expressed at first reading remains, in particular on the establishment of the Core of concreteness; a duplication of the generic function and the unclear competences intended to overlap existing organisms. Even more, our opposition to the introduction of biometric verification systems and video surveillance of access for employees remains instead of automatic surveys currently in use because - to put it this way, this majority likes - no cost-benefit analysis can comfort the legislator who intends to institutionalize the culture of suspicion and mortification. In this regard, although during the examination in the Chamber it was arranged that the teaching and educational staff be excluded from the scope of Article 2, it was unfortunately provided for the school managers, in a completely illogical way, the verification for the purposes of verification of access. Almost the patch is worse than the hole, since school managers do not have a precise working time and their evaluation depends only and exclusively on the results obtained. It is therefore not knowledge of the time spent in the office that can ensure better performance on their part. Not to mention that this measure runs counter to the functions provided for by law and collective bargaining and is detrimental to the principle of equality between school managers and the rest of school staff and between school managers and other management staff of public administrations. Furthermore, with regard to the provisions of Article 2, it should be pointed out that the President of the Data Protection Authority, in the hearing in the Chamber, stated that European jurisprudence has repeatedly clarified how biometric data are to be considered to be attributable to those categories of personal data to which greater guarantees are recognised and that the use of biometric detection systems should be considered residual and usable only if the other detection systems are not adequate. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, it is the exact opposite of what the draft law provides in practice, born by this majority and by this Government. As if that were not enough, on 27 November, at the 11th Senate Commission, the Guarantor himself pointed out that the provision of mandatory contextual use of two systems of verification of compliance with working time (collection of biometric data and video surveillance) exceeded the limits imposed by the strict necessity of processing with respect to the objective pursued. This, in simple terms, means that the provision is at the limits of persecution. Therefore, if the objective was to provide for interventions to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation of the activities of public administrations, the Government and its majority have mistakenly aimed, because - we believe - of a short-sighted and superficial view of the complexity of the problem and the context in which it moves. Far from requiring a centralist and punitive approach, the objective instead suggested flexibility of the general rule to the specificities of public administrations and investment in human resources and continuing training, to improve the level of quality of services and their accessibility to citizens. The measures to speed up targeted recruitment and generational replacement contained in Article 3 did not meet the expectations either. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u37	Excuse me a moment, Senator Laus.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u38	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I would really like to apologise to my colleagues if I disturb them. I've got a bit of a vibrant temper from time to time. I apologise individually to all my colleagues. Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u39	Senator Laus, the discussion is obviously not an inconvenience.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u40	Collegi della Lega e di Forza Italia, please allow my colleague Laus to finish the surgery and all of us to follow. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Mr Laus (PD). If we can buy colleagues a coffee... AIROLA (M5S). Apologize to the citizens! Mr Laus (PD). Well, we missed that colleague, whose last name I don't remember, that colleague who always yells. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Mr Laus (PD). I wanted to apologize to that colleague. [[Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u41	Senator Laus, address yourself to the presidency and finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u42	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I would like to apologise to Mr Airola for his support. I am sorry and I will try not to do it anymore, but in the Group they want me to contribute. AIROLA (M5S). You have to apologize to the citizens! FARAONE (PD). Shut up! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Laus, continue and we do not set up a dialogue off the path. Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I am talking to you and, through you, I would like to address my colleague. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency has already called for this. Now return to the substance of the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Mr Laus (PD). Mr President - as I said - even the measures to speed up recruitment aimed at the generational replacement contained in Article 3 have not respected the expectations: the total release of the turnover announced by the Executive was already foreseen by the current law on the basis of a rule of the Renzi Government with effect - for those who did not know - 2018. With the introduction of a derogation from competition procedures, the procedures themselves have become complicated instead of simplifying themselves. Therefore, far from representing an innovative and resolving measure of the problems afflicting the public administration, the bill under consideration represents yet another unsuccessful and lying attempt by this Government to respond to the age-old problems of our country and for this reason should be stopped here and now [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u43	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to ask a fairly simple question about the draft law under consideration, which was in a sense a karst river, because we even saw it approved at night in January; then it reappeared later; in the House it was modified, putting a piece on the right and one on the left, and today it returns to the Senate. The question I ask you is: should you explain to me why the bill would be revolutionary and above all why we can suddenly find ourselves in front of a state that becomes more efficient on the basis of it. The basic question is, therefore, why such a proposal should motivate the civil servants, of whatever body they are, to work and to produce the best for the state. I mean that we are faced with an attempt to make public administration efficient through instruments that have varied over time: we have tried to detach it from politics with the Bassanini decrees; then we have introduced rules relating to other aspects, such as - for example - the question of productivity, and now the more the aspect of control prevails, punitive. However, I would like to ask you why a public employee does not work or hide today, cheating with the card, does not feel an integral part of the administration that gives him monthly salary. I therefore believe that the draft law under discussion is not the answer, which must certainly be different, born from a profound reflection on how - on the one hand - work within public administrations is very often conceived as something that does not motivate and - on the other hand - is seen as something dangerous from the point of view of responsibilities. Perhaps a process should be carried out exactly in reverse of what has been done, because the various kinds of controls, when an administration wants to implement them, implement them. We should ask ourselves why we cannot, as a political class, convey the sense of the State and of belonging to the State as part of a public administration and, therefore, also an integral part of a plan that wants the State, the Province, the Municipality, the Region and the ASL efficient and at the service of the citizen. Why do you not feel happy and happy to do this kind of service when you receive a salary? The draft law under consideration is not an answer, because I believe that its major flaw is the fact that it is superficial. And that is why we think it is a disappointing solution to the robust programmes and projects announced on the subject. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u45	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u46	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the third reading of the draft law in practice, but the various passages from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies have produced nothing significant: the measure remains sterile, it does not deal minimally with a real reform of the public administration, which is urgent and not postponed due to the repercussions in terms of services and costs on citizens and entrepreneurs. It is absurd, in fact, to pretend to effectively unscrew a work dedicated to public administration by addressing it in a fragmentary way only through the unblocking of the turnover of recruitment, the contrast to absenteeism, the establishment of a control core and the reimbursement of food vouchers to public employees of the failed publishing company Here!Ticket. The article of the draft law in question is expressed in a heterogeneous set of provisions, and each one devoted only to a limited part of the vast complex of public administration, regardless of the different contexts. We do not see an organic vision, which would also be necessary: before we talk about recruitment, perhaps we should define simplification, bureaucracy, reorganization of work, from which we derive the skills and resources necessary for their realization. What is the point - for example - of hiring in the public administration by giving priority to the digital competences of candidates, if the administrations have not yet defined and planned the infrastructure necessary to implement the process? But say it: what's the point! We talk about the release of recruitment without taking into account the real needs even local; without considering that there are particular sectors that have urgent needs of staff - we think about school, health, but also the Forces of Order and the Fire Departments - sectors that are excluded from this provision and for which reference is made to other norms. Too bad that the budget law paradoxically provided for the unblocking of recruitment not before November 2019. But the school needs teachers in September. The doctors serve now, so much so that there are Regions like Veneto who have decided to call retired doctors, while Molise even resorts to military doctors. Instead of opening the competitions in time, what has been done? The situation has gotten worse with 100. Then we talk about a three-year plan of positive actions, which contains actions aimed at ensuring the efficiency of public administration, but it is a plan that does not yet exist because it is entrusted to a ministerial decree yet to be defined. And that the implementing decrees, today more than ever, are the obstacle to the implementation of the measures of this Government - as Forza Italia has always said - is confirmed by recent data of the Office of Studies of the Chamber. Think of the budget law: 143 of the 168 government measures still have to be enacted and 60% of them have already expired. The same applies to the decrees of the other measures, including citizenship income, although Prime Minister Conte said that citizenship income is only to be monitored and controlled. Perhaps it would also be appropriate for him to start checking the work of the Commission in order to complete not only this but also all the other measures. The draft law represents yet another text of propaganda that still establishes new carriages: think of the Core concreteness that - despite the denial of the government - is a real supervisory body that is going to overlap with those already existing and that will relate to prefectures, highlighting a greater control of the state over local administrations. Colleagues of the League, but autonomy! And how can the Core, with a staff of only 53 people, perform the controls and be a navigator for over 10,000 public administrations? It won't do any good. On the theme of contrasting absenteeism: a shared objective, but we need to know well the realities where both video surveillance and biometric devices are imposed. We have already said that there are small municipalities, with two to three employees, small local authorities that not only do not need such impositions, but are penalised. Just as it is impossible for public administration managers to be subject to controls, as they are often outnumbered by more than one body. But do you have any idea the realities that you go to normal? Do you have it? With regard to the school sector, teachers are now excluded from supervision, which remains mandatory for managers. I would remind you that the 7,000 school managers in service must ensure their presence in 43,000 school complexes; they must take care of relations with other schools, as well as with local authorities, ASL, territorial offices of the school administration, professional orders, associations of the territory. Can they - in your opinion - be controlled? What are we talking about? I would point out that management figures work for targets and not time. Then you should also pay overtime when they stop at night to finish their work. So, without logic, you impose the control arrangements, making available only EUR 35 million, resources already considered insufficient at the time by the Court of Auditors in the draft law that has not been amended. Let's imagine now that they should also serve schools. Colleagues of the majority, mayors - and, I assure you, not only them - will thank you for always being able to impose obligations and services on local authorities at their expense. Here you are imposing control of everything and everyone for mere propaganda, without a ratio and without providing with resources. The Government is unable to put the measures it takes into reality, because it lacks a vision and because it is always forced to negotiate downwards between the two Lega and M5S components. Even with regard to public service selection notices, the government does not seem to have the clear ideas: logic would like the profile of a candidate to be evaluated first, and then access to evidence, and not vice versa. The goal is to score for titles and not even for experience gained. In any case, an ad hoc committee is also set up in this context. It is a good thing - and I stress this - that this was to be the Government of change: as we always say, and unfortunately, change yes, but worse. In the draft law concreteness is also spoken of reimbursement of food vouchers to public employees of the publishing company failed Here!Ticket. Luckily, thanks to an amendment by Forza Italia, the obligation of guarantee has been inserted that the publishing companies must now guarantee to the holders of the conventional exercises, but no aid has been provided for the public establishments that have suffered a serious economic damage to the bankruptcy. How can you keep turning your head on the other side in front of those who risk, among other things, for not own responsibilities? There is no way in which an organic vision of the public administration that you want and will come forward can be pursued. It should be an appropriate restructuring plan for local government. On the contrary, it is a centralist measure. In this passage, not only do the criticalities highlighted at first reading remain. On the contrary, in some cases worsening changes have been made, so that the already scarce resources allocated are spread over a wider audience. It is claimed that small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit indirectly from the measure, because they will have relations with a more efficient administration, assuming that the rules contained therein will be functional for the objective. But we've already seen how unrealistic this is. Of course, the efficiency of public administration is a laudable and acceptable objective, but pursuing it - in the current Italian context - with the modalities of the draft law concrete, it is clear that these norms will remain, at best, implemented as a leopard, leaving, therefore, the situation unchanged from the point of view of efficiency. Once again, a lot of noise, a lot of propaganda for nothing! On the other hand, let us begin by thinking once again of a reduction in bureaucratic obligations, which alone would be a real saving in terms of time and costs for all. All of this is neither here nor in the other measures concerning public administration. The government has not been able to grasp the priorities: it is a beautiful package of inconcreteness! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Brothers of Italy can only reiterate what has been said during the previous readings in the Senate and the House, where we voted against a measure which, in practice, has only the title. We would have expected that a real reform of the public administration would be put in place to ensure that citizens and businesses could find a friendly bureaucracy, a state able to help them and that they would give those services which, in many cases, are completely and tragically denied in the face of very exotic taxes paid in the coffers of the State. Instead, we are essentially faced with a commercial measure, which says that, through biometric recognition, they are identified, and perhaps punished, the so-called smart cards of the card. Well, we want to say it without ambiguity and infidelity: the smart cards must be punished severely, because those who are lucky enough to have a job cannot offend and mortify the many people, especially young people, who do not have such a possibility. But this must not entail the mortification of the role of people who do their duty, even of high professionalism, who have chosen to serve the State when they could have played a manager role in private activities, even with very high and important salaries. The truth is that the problem must be addressed where it exists; it must be struck who is guilty of conduct that of course must be stigmatized and addressed with targeted, serious and strict measures, which - in our opinion - can lead to dismissal in the trunk. However, this is not the case. The idea is to tackle the problem by creating a centralized core, for which about EUR 4 million will be spent, which is absolutely useless because the body will be yet another one that will be overtaken by those who already have inspection tasks. We had hoped, as the Brothers of Italy, that the section of the school would be excluded from biometric recognition because we are convinced that the noble function of teaching could not know a further fall of authority. Well: the school sector has been excluded, but we find ourselves in the absurdity that school leaders are subject to biometric recognition instead. It is like saying that those who are subject to the executive's functional duties are not controlled, while the boss is. In addition - as previous speakers have said - school managers play a more complex role, a role in relation to local authorities and institutions. It is therefore very incomprehensible to want them to be identified. My Group had tabled amendment 2.4 to the Commission, which was incredibly rejected. We believe that giving an answer to school leaders should have been a matter of common sense. Finally, we appeal to the National Association of Public Managers and High Professionals of the School (ANP) to the President of the Senate, asking for the deletion of Article 2 of the so-called draft law to be concrete because they are really subjected to unacceptable discrimination. We make this appeal, even if we are not confident, because we have found a reversal of the principle "punish one, to educate one hundred". Here we end up punishing everyone and not educating anyone. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, allow me to make a very topical thought. A few days ago I spoke with the mayor of a small municipality of my college, which was the subject of news for the shooting of a tobacconist against a man who had entered into his private property, who asked me why the government does not give more resources to the municipalities to control the territories, especially those belonging to small administrations, where there are commercial activities that we know are important to guard the liveliness of the territory. The mayor complained about this, considering that we are here to approve the concrete measure that instead allocates 35 million euros to introduce systems of verification with cameras and control in a better way - this is the objective - the efficiency, effectiveness and productivity of the public administration. I now believe that in practice there is only the title in this measure, which has been well-centered. The measure, which could be revolutionary and innovative, has nothing of anything we could have found, instead, if the majority and the government had the ability to identify a model of adaptive governance, rather than a model of traditional and conventional governance. I realize that it is much easier to introduce repressive measures such as this. I do not want to go into discussions concerning the collection of personal data and, therefore, on reflections which have a technical aspect that should actually be deepened. I would just like to make an analysis of the validity of the proposal for expenditure - someone who preceded me well - on the validity of the proposal for expenditure. This government is always talking about cost-benefit analyses and I wonder if the Minister in identifying such expenditure has made an analysis in this regard. Alas: I do not think that an in-depth analysis has been made because, if we really were to assess the return on investment of the 35 million to better measure the efficiency, effectiveness and productivity of public administration, the judgment could only be absolutely negative. The Minister could have introduced with courage, vision and determination - as I said before - a model of adaptive governance that must have a significant impact on certain points. The first concerns a strong and fundamental shift from compliance with the rule to the ability to assess the objectives to be achieved by management. We know that there is an exasperated culture of respect for the norm. It would be about clearing the jungle of laws, simplifying - simplification is essential - and directing all employees of the public administration - from the summit to the base, but clearly starting from management - towards achieving concrete results. This would actually introduce a practical and concrete element into the draft law under consideration. It would need, therefore, a transition from the culture of the norm to the culture of the result, also because public administration is a corporate organization to all intents and purposes. Therefore, although it is true that the parameters of the private corporate organization are not totally transferable in the public, let me say, having worked for more than twenty-five, that it is an extremely complex organization with dynamics certainly not comparable in total to those that characterize a private organization, but nevertheless dynamics that, in order to guarantee efficiency, effectiveness and productivity, must be oriented to the culture of the result. That would have been the first point. I come to the second point. The measure, also in relation to other government policies, moves to replace a significant part of the public workforce by introducing - hopefully - many young people, who will certainly be very sensitive and able to understand the potential of digital technologies. Be careful again to prevent these technologies from being introduced into a jungle of standards and processes that are not simplified and standardised, because we risk introducing a real bureaucratic bomb. Digital technologies work very well if the upstream process is simplified first. We know how much Italian public administration is not the example of simplification. One of the main reasons for foreign investors wishing to come to Italy is, in addition to justice - we know, all the newspapers talk about it - public administration. It is, in fact, a machine that looks like an elephant, extremely slow and that does not give answers in a short time, or - above all - clear. There is another initiative that the Minister could have taken. It could have played an important role in relations with the union, trying to revolutionise industrial relations. It is necessary, with courage, to think that even in the public we must move from the culture of the place and the fixed salary to that of the place that can vary and that the employee - of whatever level is - paid, in part important, in relation to the objectives he knows how to achieve. A significant part of the salary of the public employee must be linked to the so-called productivity and its ability, especially if it is at the top, to create team, motivate its collaborators and try to achieve the objectives not hindering politics, but - indeed - trying to provide it with the tools necessary to achieve them. All this - alas - I did not see it in the measure under consideration. Therefore, with all good will, I do not think we can give a positive opinion, because the general system introduces further bureaucracy to the existing one. I'll give you a final thought. The introduction of the Core of Concreteness (in addition to the Public Service Inspectorate) and the Three-Year Plan - will be an endless list of asphyxiation activities which, I repeat, will do absolutely nothing in concrete terms - means further bureaucracy to what we already have and which we should have simplified in an important way. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u50	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u51	Mr President, I will be brief and I do not think I will use all the time I have. We are in the third reading and it is really frustrating to continue to discuss when, since the first reading, all suggestions, suggestions and confrontation have been very suffocated. We ask that the intelligence of Italians and our fellow citizens be respected. You are continuing to produce simple solutions in writing and miracles in expectations. I'll prove it to you, if you pay tribute to me with a note of attention. I take advantage of Mr Bongiorno's presence in the Chamber to point out some contradictions. I have no presumption that I am right, but I would ask that I at least be given the satisfaction of bringing out some simple contradictions. I'll start with the first one. In the report accompanying the draft law - we have not written this - you write that, with the approval of the articles under consideration, you guarantee the immediate improvement of the administrative organization. Using a parallelism with the so-called Dignity Decree, with which you have abolished poverty, in this report you use the same vision of a prospective nature and speak of immediate improvement - I wonder if in a report you can write "immediate improvement" of the organization of the administration. Soon after - here is the contradiction - presented a bill on the improvement of public administration, with two additional articles; the first, on concreteness, with six articles; the second on the improvement of public administration with eight articles. And what do you write? Also in the report, write that you propose to identify concrete solutions after the decree-law concretely to ensure the efficiency of the public administration, the improvement of the administrative organisation and the increase of the quality of the services provided. It is a profound contradiction, and it is the second. Then go on, don't stop! Today we voted on the questions for the preliminary ruling - so as not to miss anything - on the emergency measures for the health system of the Calabria Region, and intervened on the public administration of the health system (the health system is also a public administration). And again you go to work on solving the problem of the organisation, effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of public administration. And you do it within a few months. So, back to the measure under discussion to close the circle. In this draft law concrete with six articles you had and you wrote: we guarantee the immediate improvement of the organization. You understand that this is the certification of your superficiality, because you do not have a vision of a prospective nature to intervene in this really complicated sector. Then there is another very profound contradiction about the leaders. On the one hand, in the draft law we have little need for you to ask the obligation of the electronic bracelet - I use a metaphor, of course - for the manager, while in the bill for the improvement of the public administration, addressing the managers, write that a better organization of public work cannot be excluded, moreover, from the full guarantee of the autonomy of the manager. But if someone listened, I don't say you, but me right now, what would they think? Is this the Senate of the Republic? But who writes the laws? But how is it possible to authorise a report accompanying a measure with these indications? If a university student comes to an exam at the university, oral or written it was, with such expressions according to you could get an 18, no matter how good and good the professor might be? I don't think so. I stop at these contradictions because I want to turn the light on another aspect. There will be an intervention and an investment for cameras and video surveillance for an amount of €35 million. When making a video surveillance system, if it is aimed at capturing the thief, there is no need for a daily behavior of the operator to verify every day who has entered and who has left. When the theft happens, it occurs on the tape at that particular date and at that determined time who entered. In this particular case we are talking about something different: you want to discover the smart cards, which I call scammers, because they put in place the elements of a crime and nobody wants to justify them. With 35 million, you do the surgery. Then I ask you a question, Minister: in the municipalities or in any case in all public administrations there will be a job acquitted by an employee to verify everyday life and understand who came in and who came out, doing the trick? Will the recordings from the cameras finally be seen by anyone? If so, by whom? Does this have a cost? It certainly has a cost that will be downloaded to the public administration. It is clear, unambiguous and unambiguous from all these elements, without any doubt, how you manage this Commission. I do not believe that you, Minister, the Government and the majority themselves do not have the confidence and competence, but continue to manage your mandate as if you were a communication and advertising agency, because the abbiacci is the knowledge of psychological dynamics within a productive sector. You've taken a cantonade, and that's why you're burning our country's hopes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u52	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u53	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us is devoted to a very important and long-awaited subject, but it is precisely because of its complexity and importance that it would need much more attention and - forgive me for the pun - much more concrete. I would like to draw my attention, having little time, to the provision provided for in Article 2 concerning biometric control of the presence of civil servants: nothing to complain about, except that there is one case that provides biometric control of school leaders. Teachers and not principals have been properly exempted from biometric control in the House, who will face a profoundly humiliating and disrespectful situation of their role and responsibility. Let me explain better: we start from the assumption that a teacher or a teacher - a professional category of which I am honored to be a part - has their own assigned hours of frontal lesson, enters the classroom together with their pupils and students and signs on the class register and on the personal one their own presence and that of the children. It is a register that today is even electronic and therefore detects, without margin of discretion or error, the exact time of arrival and closure. The control of the professor's presence would therefore have been absolutely pleonastic and well done the House to remove him. I would like to say a few words on the question of school: in my opinion, the real control that should be carried out is on the quality of teaching, the charism of the teacher and his ability to involve and judge pupils, and not on how much time he spends at school. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These are all characteristics that are certainly not measured with a machine. Well, the control remains on the principal, on the one who runs the school, whose responsibility is deep. He does not have service hours, but works for objectives: didactic, reputational, managerial, administrative and motivational for teachers and learners and becomes an element of connection with families and institutions. A principal is expected to possess organizational skills, professionalism, managerial qualities, characteristics of human sensitivity that favor the full involvement of the teaching staff aimed at the constant raising of the quality level of the teaching that I mentioned before. It is expected to be the ideal guide of the school system, in order to implement those processes of ideal accompaniment of the human and cultural formation of students in order to ensure complete personal growth throughout the course of study. It is expected that it will work to avoid school leaving; it is expected that it will be able to acquire a qualitative reputation for students who then want to continue their studies at the highest level; it is expected that the school will have links with the business world, to ensure the school-work alternation of children. There is a beautiful letter written by the principals and addressed precisely to the Senate Presidency and to all the Leaders, in which it is recalled that the principals guarantee the exercise of numerous rights of primary rank provided for in the Constitution: the right to study, the right to work, the freedom of thought and teaching, the right to health. In short, the principals do not have hours; one cannot measure the work of a principal by presence alone. The principal, among other things, can have more school locations: on average there are six school complexes for which a principal is responsible, so he must also be present in the other offices, as well as in his own office, perhaps in the primary plexus. However, we do not see that, in addition to the management's salary, he receives refunds to move to the different locations of the school, often even tens of kilometers away. Being an executive, he works for those goals that we have set out and is therefore free to manage his time to reach them, without being subjected to unnecessary checks. Not to mention the costs: being a measure without additional costs for the State, the expenditure necessary to purchase and install biometric control devices in schools only, estimated at about 100 million euros, will correspondingly thin out the ordinary resources of the schools themselves and will force the heads of schools to ask the families for further liberal contributions. We hope that this provision will not be implemented and that the Senate will be able to amend it, since it is entrusted to a subsequent decree, because it would be very damaging for the entire section of the school to reduce those who direct the school to a mere bureaucrat. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u54	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today it was my concern to intervene in this House in order to share the transformation into law of the draft law in practice because, before the electoral mandate, I have been a prison manager, for over twenty years, at the top of a complex structure such as prison, belonging to a public administration. Today, the Government of Change takes a further step, which can no longer be postponed, towards the transformation of the state machine that we promised our citizens. Finally, after years, we are witnessing an improvement and a real renewal within the public administration, optimizing resources, avoiding waste and investing in technology and merit. These are the key words of the draft law under consideration. More digital means less corruption. When the digital economy is transparent it works well, because everything is traceable. Not only does it produce wealth, but it redistributes it, as well as merit enhances the benefits to the community qualitatively. That is why there is a need to focus more decisively on digital and meritorious public administration and I certainly cannot listen to speeches saying that public administration is not ready for this digitization, not in keeping with the pace of the times. At one stroke one can defeat the caste, fight corruption, increase efficiency, eliminate bureaucracy, simplify procedures, precisely in this era of digital transformation. Therefore, I can only appreciate the concrete nature of this bill and also the establishment of a Core of concreteness, which will certainly not weaken the powers of the inspectorate, while it will have a propulsive function of support to the managers, to which will be indicated any corrective actions to be taken, precisely in order to simplify the procedures themselves. Online publicity of the results of the visits made by this Core will help to avoid the repetition of non-legitimate conduct and to mutual legitimate and virtuous ones. In the event of failure to comply with the instructions, the manager may respond to them disciplinedly, but with this bill he tries to put the same manager in the best conditions to achieve concrete results, with specific appropriations relating to human and instrumental resources. In this regard, it is very important to unblock recruitment so as to ensure turnover within the public administration, so that each pensioner will be replaced by a new employee, unlike what has happened to date. Public administrations, in fact, did not have young people inside because most of the competitions were blocked. One cannot think of running such an articulated machine without funds, personnel and equipment, so it is necessary to ensure a targeted and quality generational replacement, giving emphasis above all to the new professional figures, who will be able to complete the process of dematerialization and digitization, hiring experts in computer science, public contract and management control, experts in the use of European funds. In fact, we must not forget that today many funds have been returned to Europe precisely because of the lack of specialised figures. Important is the establishment of the national register for the members of the examination committees, from which it can be drawn in a transparent and impartial way, which can remain valid for three years extendable for a further three years and, therefore, will also be guaranteed an effective rotation. Nor can one pretend not to be aware of the innumerable episodes of news that attest to one of the plagues of the public administration, namely the serious conduct of the false attestations in service, so it is considered more appropriate, both for citizens, and for colleagues employees, to provide for more sophisticated and appropriate forms of control to the times, as well as systems of biometric verification of the identity, as well as the installation of video surveillance devices, provided that these instruments must be non-punitive but above all preventive and allow to be sure of the conducts. The measure in our examination serves to protect the many virtuous civil servants, who represent the majority and who, because of dishonest colleagues, the so-called smart cards, are accused and unfairly labeled as idlers. The civil servant is a qualified person who enjoys a privileged position based on the trust relationship, so he must respect the obligations not only legal but also and above all moral. For these reasons, criticism of this bill is not acceptable, which aims to make public administration more efficient, trying to make employees and the whole community feel better. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u56	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to reply even if I am in a bit of trouble, because during the general debate I heard about the negative effects of the measure in our examination, when it is still not being implemented. I have heard of what does not exist, because, as far as school managers are concerned, there is still an ad hoc measure that will regulate precisely those situations in which managers are more complex, especially in the most important administrations. There is none of this and, therefore, the general debate has been based on what does not exist. I would also point out, precisely because there has been so much talk of biometric checks, that they are mainly for those managers who operate in the larger administrations and have to turn from one plexus to another, and therefore they are not able to control the presences and absences of the subjects. This is really important and the provision to me is at heart, because I am a local administrator: I am city councilman in a provincial capital, a municipal administration with more complex in which school leaders, who perform the most disparate functions, have to move from one municipal property to another and do not have the perception of who is there and who is not there. Much has been said, but then, in the end, I realized that these are the same things that were said during the debate at first reading. It is not true that there is duplication between the Core concreteness and the labour inspectorate: the technical report explains the role, the tasks and the aims of the Core concreteness. The Core concreteness is in fact a tutor, who goes to support public administrations that are in difficulty and fail to be efficient in the services provided to citizens; in the event that it is needed, it also takes corrective measures that go to support those smaller realities where maybe there is less professionalism and less experience and need support. You wonder if it's gonna work or not, but, guys, in ten years, nobody's ever done anything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Catalfo]] They've just been put on patches that have done worse. We have put our face to it and I thank Minister Bongiorno for devoting our heart and soul to the public administration, which has been set aside for years. Public administration means services to citizens; public administration is important, because if it does not work, the country stops. We know that the average age of civil servants is 53 years and the presence of under 35 in public administrations is around 2%. We want to rejuvenate, to make efficient, to make a generational replacement; the turnover, which has never been done, now there is, because, being fifty-two years old the average age of the public employee, you understand that the people who have worked a life are more in difficulty. We need fresh minds and therefore, thanks to Article 3, there will be targeted recruitment and generational replacement. As for the fight and prevention of absenteeism, someone criticizes us and says that absenteeism does not exist. I would like to bring to your attention some situations: October 2015, Sanremo, 196 municipal employees involved and 43 restrictive measures; July 2016, Boscotrecase, 30 municipal employees investigated for more than 200 episodes of absenteeism. And in these situations there were also secretaries general and city police commanders, so checks are essential. This is the Government of change and this is a measure of common sense, because it stands on the side of the workers for good and will do a tough fight against absenteeism because we must remember that public workers who do not go to work, who stamp the card and then leave the office, go shopping or find themselves in personal situations outside the working environment, are paid with public money. I thank Minister Bongiorno, the representatives of the Government and the members of the Commission who have worked with you on this measure, because it is of common sense, it puts oil and gasoline in the engine of the public administration, now almost stopped for years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group, Senator Catalfo and Minister Bongiorno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u58	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u59	Mr President, I would like to speak in particular on the release of recruitment, including in addition to what I said in the initial report. The rule that speaks of hiring in the three-year period 2019-2021 is already old, in the sense that we are in June; the House had the measure in hand for six months and two fundamental questions have occurred, one of which is the budget law, which established that the assumptions contained in all the norms provided in the first text for all employees (the Presidency of the Council, all the Ministries, all the public non-economic agencies, tax agencies and universities) are referred to 15 November 2019. For the sake of information, I say that the 100th share has intervened and the first window for civil servants is in August 2019, so of course we will start from 2020. However, the most important thing I would like to stress is that, in our view, recruitment must first have the objective of improving public services for citizens and citizens and bringing the state closer to the needs of businesses. On the Core of concreteness I have already expressed myself and I do not return. Mr Minister, we need a plan of needs which, above all, brings more recruitment into services: I am thinking of social workers and employment centres, where there are also overlaps of competences between what the State does and what the Regions do, and therefore also more dependent. We should probably discuss this in a bipartisan way and call for this because - I have said so in every way - we should strengthen the services, while, Minister, we risk making linear assumptions, after making linear cuts. Starting with the conclusion, there is an undeniable stratification of organisms and standards. Also on legislative decree n. 165 of 2001, the single text of the public employment, intervenes in a very massive way, hanging further the norms, which instead we need so much to simplify. Centralised selective testing is also envisaged and the whole issue of simplifying access to the public service is not resolved. In fact, many changes have been added to the House, but the subject is not resolved because in the access selections we do not require - as I said - digital skills for the human capital of an innovative public administration, while it would be appropriate to test non-attitudinal mnemonics, but on the competences of the staff, because our public administration must have a competitiveness also in our economic system. It is not true that nothing has been done in the past ten years. Perhaps - and I say this in no uncertain terms - this majority had a duty to understand - as the rapporteur says - how, for example, the implementation of the Madia law was, in part, still in progress. This is what we complain about in the first place: a legislator first has the task of seeing the implementation and implementation of the rules and not of layering them. We really owe it to the good of our state. We are talking about the apparatus of the State and it is truly a regret to have missed an important opportunity, because together we could reason for our most precious good, which is public administration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u60	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u61	Mr President, I am against the amendment and the agenda presented to Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u62	Mr President, the Government's opinion is also against both Amendment 1.1 and Agenda G1100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u63	Having not been tabled on Article 1 other amendments than the deletion 1.1 tabled by Senator Floris and other Senators, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the retention of the article. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out, and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and agendas tabled in Rule 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u65	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u66	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u69	MALPEZZI (PD). Madam Minister, I am here to ask you to reconsider this amendment, as you also heard during the general debate. I very much welcome the attempt by the majority rapporteur to reply, who explained that, with regard to the question of school leaders, a measure will be adopted in the future that will find agreement between you and Mr Bussetti. But, then, why not expunge this part from your provision, as you did to the House in relation to the rest of the employees working within the school? You see, Minister, I'm very glad you don't have to stamp a card. I think it is right that you carry out your work according to what is freedom of planning, management and meeting. I believe that a minister has a duty to be outside the palace - perhaps not always, but he must be able to do so - and I wonder, then, if you know at this point the job of the school manager or, at least, what school leaders have been called upon to do for so many years. The manager does not have a time; he is an executive and does not have a working time: the contract says so. Why, then, Minister, should the school manager somehow stamp a card with those certain forms of recognition that you foresee, since there is no time to respect? If you want to do something like this, contractly, change the school manager's contract, pay them in another way but pay them overtime too. If there is a reason why you have to prove that a school manager enters and leaves school, it means that you evaluate him on the basis of the working time he stays in the school. But you're not doing this: you don't pay overtime or vacation, because you know - don't you? - that school executives on vacation aren't going. And they don't go there because, since there's digital signature, the school manager can't delegate his deputy to sign the papers, but he has to deal with it, which may be August 13th or 15th. He, however, will be the only one, within the school world, to be forced to a biometric recognition, as you call it. Why? We haven't figured out the ratio yet. I would add that school leaders in today's school run extremely complex situations, which include not a single building but in some cases six, seven, eight. For you there is no problem, because you say that you will put everything back on a future measure with Minister Bussetti. But we ask you, Minister, with what money will school leaders be called upon to include in schools such measures as you need for control? At the moment, there is absolutely no money available in relation to what you write in the text on your own initiative. This means that a school manager, since this text will become law, will be called to take money from the school, money that could be directed to other useful functions for students, to use them to create a completely useless tool. I am sorry, Minister, to see you not attentive to the issue we are raising, because there is very little ideology in what we are putting to your attention. On the other hand, there is a great desire to meet you and to tell you: since you have noticed in the Chamber that you have made a mistake, by inserting such a prediction in relation to the teachers, you realize that you are making the mistake even, if not more, towards the school leaders. Unless, Minister, teachers scare you because there are so many, they can make noise and affect the speech of consensus that you like so much, while school leaders, precisely as state leaders, who are at school even at this moment to carry out their particular service, perhaps, as there are few, do not form critical mass and are not enough to move your consciences. I'm telling you, there's still time. This is a fair battle and there is no other decree-law or provision that holds, between you and Minister Bussetti, because what you are doing is saying that the only figure within the school world is subject to evaluation, and therefore already to a form of control, must be evaluated further. From this point of view, your position is truly unacceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gallone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u70	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101, presented by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3 corresponding to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u71	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments to Article 3. The opinion was also opposed to the G3100 agenda, while in favour of the G3101 agenda, with the following rewording: delete the words "Article 1" to "public administration"; and after the words: "Recommend the Government" to replace "prevent" by "considering" the desirability of predicting".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u72	Mr President, I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion, also on the G3.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u73	Before proceeding with the votes, I would ask Senator Patriarch if he accepts the proposed rewording of the G3.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u74	Yes, Mr President, I accept that.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u75	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u78	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, in this draft law and in others previously presented, a major public sector recruitment operation is being carried out. With this amendment, I call for recruitment to be made on the basis of the needs and findings of those who are needed and not on the basis of the numerical criteria of those who retire to justify turnover. I think there is a need for highly qualified staff and not for linear recruitment. Since recruitment should be in the near future, in November or December, this reconnaissance should be almost immediate. It is worth remembering that all civil servants also have a cost for the administration of the State, which certainly needs to rejuvenate public dependency, such as age and professionalism. However, it is necessary to know these needs before hiring.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u79	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.4, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.8, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.19, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.20 tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.21, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.22, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.23, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.24, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.25, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.26, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, presented by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Patriarch, having accepted the rewording, insists on voting on the agenda G3.101 (text 2)? Patriarca (PD). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G3.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 3, corresponding to Article 4 of the text approved by the Senate. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4, introduced by the Chamber of Deputies. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u82	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, with this explanation of vote we would like to reiterate the opinion we have already expressed at first reading on the measure, which is and remains strongly negative. 12.05 a.m. (Follows LAFORGIA). I have the impression that in the debate we have discussed in the various stages, both in the Commissions and in this House and, more generally, in the public debate on this subject, we do not have the full knowledge of what we are discussing - certainly not the majority. The basic object is the idea that a modern country has or should have of the State, of its function and, consequently, also of what should represent the articulation of the State, starting from the public administration and from those who work there. I say this because the history of the countries - first of all the most advanced ones around the world - tells us a very simple thing if we go to read it or reread it: there is no modern country in the world, including those of more liberalist system, according to the declination of a paradigm of economic policy, that has not made its fortune if not aiming first of all at a radical revision of the role of the State and, therefore, of public administration. This has resulted, where it has happened, in investments in the public administration, in public money in the public administration and therefore, ultimately, in investing in those who work there, in the valorization of skills, in the large recruitment plans, in the efficiency of the administrative machinery. It has happened for several European countries and there are other experiences around the world. This is the height of the discussion that we should have made and that, instead, we continue not to make even in a measure that has the evocative name that you clinged to him, "concreteness" but that in spite of his name did not bring into reality a discussion of this level. As I said in a previous explanation of vote, when I had the opportunity to make it at first reading, the impression in front of this bill is that we are faced with a sort of "brunettism back" and I do not want the fellow Member of the House, Professor Renato Brunetta. I am referring to the debate where, when we talk about public administration in this country, in the end, it turns you around, we always end up talking about a problem that we recognize as enormous - I am talking about absenteeism, inefficiency and state idlers - but that risks investing an overall judgment on public administration. The many or few cases of absenteeism - I do not know how to quantify them but, even if they were few, they would still be serious - we must denounce and stigmatize them and compared to the same we must put in place all the actions provided for by laws already in force, starting from disciplinary sanctions, even layoffs. But this cannot and must not mean investing an entire category of negative judgment - that of civil servants - which in most cases (in fact, in the vast majority) does its work in a spirit of self-denial, I would say even in heroic conditions. In fact, very often public employees find themselves doing the work in the absence of a framework and motivation, which should depend not only on a given subjective (i.e. how much they want to work during the day), but also on the presence of specific working conditions characterized by paths and planning and a system of objectives. The feeling is that you stand above that surface, with the result that, in the end, when you finally approve the measure, you will be in the condition, in favor of cameras, to say: "We have opposed and attacked the issue of state idlers." If you will allow me, Mr President, this is the most frustrating issue, because public administration - and therefore, I insist, the State - is the common home and in Italy it would be necessary to have a higher debate on this issue precisely in order to push and put the country back on the road, starting from a serious investment on public administration and its employees (which means the valorization of human capital, pathways of professionalization, digitalization, bureaucratic relief, transparent relationship between those who provide the services of public administration and those who are the recipient, starting from citizens, who must be in a position to evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency). The theme is exactly this, because - we have said it in all sauces - the point is not to check the time of entry and put it in relation to the time of exit and imagine a mechanism of control of these two moments. The point is to understand what the hell happens inside these two moments, i.e. from when the employee enters his place of work to when he leaves. All together we must try to understand and evaluate - and, therefore, in the end value - what happens in that period of time. Also to mention the classics, accountant Ugo Fantozzi said that in the office you can also play naval battle. That's the point. Even by introducing biometric controls, the most advanced offered by technology, you will never be in a position to understand exactly what happens inside the machine. So you're not getting your hands on that car. The point is exactly this: we are faced with a missed opportunity. Of course, if this is the general arrangement of the measure, its enforceability is a direct consequence of it. Therefore, the Core of concreteness is exactly what some of my previous colleagues have said it will be, that is, a kind of duplication of what already exists. Speaking of inefficiencies that should be healed, you add a double, something extraroneo and that was not needed, something that could have been done with what already exists. Here too we are within the dimension of suggestion: the Core of concreteness is something that you can spend quietly in a public speech... [[Call the president back.]] If possible, Mr President, I would like to make up for at least one minute of the time I lost at the beginning of my speech during the change of presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u83	Sure, Senator Laforgia, the 30 seconds I've wasted on you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u84	Please continue. LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Of course, from a symbolic point of view, but also from a concrete point of view, there is an element of fragility, which - from my point of view - is perhaps the most symbolically powerful in the negative sense. Among the recipients and "victims" of this measure there will be the so-called school leaders - it has been remembered here too - and that is those who should perform a function in full autonomy. They also perform a function that often the same traits as I referred to earlier, i.e. with a feature of heroism from the point of view of the means made available to them and of the resources. Therefore, they are forced to stay within this regime, this framework and these obligations, and the school system is also told to take on even the resources to install the control systems. That's crazy! For the school system it is a madness that cannot be allowed: it is exactly what additional resources should be devoted to, that you are not putting. It is madness for a country that, instead of witnessing a positive and real transformation of the administrative machine in the sense of its efficiency and its valorization, is once again witnessing a passage made by many proclamations, by many slogans and by little ability to affect the real levers of the country. That is why we shall vote proudly at this point against this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u87	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, from a bill bearing the name "concreteness" we expected to find concrete measures to start and simplify the administrative machinery and, above all, to give credible answers to unresolved problems: I am thinking - for example - of the legal and economic treatment of non-directive staff; of recruitment policies; of training and new recruitment in strategic areas such as school. And instead it's like we see so many crumbs scattered in a messy way on a table. The much-declaimed Core of concreteness, which is to be added to the Public Service Inspectorate, will theoretically serve as support for public administrations. Inexplicably, however, among his activities you have introduced surveys and visits of an essentially inspection nature, even with the preparation of a minutes for each verification: a copy-paste of the yet another inspection and control body with the obvious result of increasing the bureaucracy, and then waiting for I do not know how many opinions obtaining as a result total immobilism. For a Core that deals in fact with the entire activity of all public administrations, that I think you know range in fields and competences between them very different and heterogeneous, how will you find so vast and complex skills with a endowment of only 53 people? Many worlds - as I said - with different functions, tasks and problems, to which we must give different solutions. It is obvious that, as things stand, as the Brothers of Italy we have strong doubts about the actual usefulness of such an organism, whose estimated expenditure already amounts to about EUR 4 million from this year. This is a bill that has set itself the objective of countering the behavior of unfaithful employees, aimed at the false attestation of the presence in service: it is a battle that we share and that must be done. But, as a result, you should have organised instruments to apply principles of meritocracy for those who have always worked with dedication, seriousness and honesty in the public administration - they are the majority - penalising the so-called smarties or idlers. For Brothers of Italy, they must be found and punished once and for all. Absenteeism, as depicted in this bill, risks, however, passing the idea of being the only cause of the inefficiency of the public administration, with the serious risk that it can feed dangerous generalizations by the public and make the category of all public workers pass as the only one to be controlled and punished. We expected from those who speak of efficiency a serious investigation on the condition of the workers of the public administration: we would have wanted attention to the training plans, we would have wanted to talk about job security. On the recruitment front, as the Brothers of Italy, we can only express satisfaction with the forecasts of new recruitments, but this is not enough and does not meet the real need for staff of public administrations already in difficulty (difficulty destined to increase with the outputs produced from quota 100, which will be added to the incomprehensible block of recruitments for the whole of 2019). In this measure there is no trace of incentives for the training of employees; no serious investment of economic resources to overcome ever more flattened and indifferent remuneration to any meritorious consideration. In summary, there is still a lack of system to know exactly what civil servants do between stampings. Serious investments are needed for an extraordinary recruitment plan that finally succeeds in overcoming the phenomenon of precariousness in health, in the local self-government, in the school. You have been unmoved and are about to pass the rule that provides for the school manager to be subjected to biometric identity checks: you have not understood or really do not know how the managers work, as well as the amount of work they do every day. You have put the school right in the crosshairs, continuing not to solve the problem of precariousness, because it is convenient and easy to talk about precariousness, as it happens at every electoral deadline. Promise employment stability that, on the other hand, many workers will never achieve a vote, because it is now 30% precarious of the actual staff of public administrations, a much higher percentage than the private sector; workers who live continuously with the fear of losing their jobs for years, a constant uncertainty that puts them in a position that severely limits their efficiency. Sanare means correcting an illegitimate situation to bring it back to normal according to a principle of justice. You have foreseen for all competition procedures that those who win a competition are winners and losers lose the future. If it is true that there will be 450,000 new recruitments in the three-year period 2019-2022, of these many are already "in the belly" of the public administration and are called eligible winners of competitions. So why don't you scroll through those rankings? Why not, with appropriate regulatory measures, protect the eligible candidates in the winning rankings of public competitions and extend the effectiveness of rankings and recruitment to 31 December 2019? You have also said no to this type of proposal. And let's not talk about the tormented story of the aspiring policemen who were excluded from scrolling the ranking of the eligible non-winners of the competition for students agents of the State Police banned in 2017. As a result of an amendment contained in the simplification decree which introduced new requirements (age not exceeding 26 years and diploma of upper secondary education), thousands of aspiring students will be excluded from the selection because they are considered too old. In this case, the new requirements apply for a competition previously launched, in which those who respected age limits and qualifications provided for in the notice took part. Finally, Mr President, you have called it a concrete bill - you have now accustomed us to these attractive names - but there is nothing concrete about it. On the other hand, I fear a return to the past, made up of obsessive controls, rigidity, measurements, filings and centralisms. For these reasons I declare the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u88	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the girls and boys of the district committee of Santo Stefano, of the city of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u91	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the more than three million employees would like to thank them for their attention. Despite the two passages to the Senate and the House, President, we are faced - as my colleague, Mrs Parente and Mr Laus have confirmed and reiterated - with a measure that has a confused and deeply inadequate regulatory framework. Among other things, it is proposed - and some interventions of the majority have confirmed this - a paradigm now known and practiced by this Government and by the majority: the culture of mistrust and suspicion, the incentive to the easy invective towards public employees, because public employees are unreliable, they are hardened absenteeists, they are the smarts of the card, they are lazy and no-doing. It goes without saying that, if this is the perspective towards which the majority and Minister Bongiorno move - I see him listening very carefully [[Ironic comments from the PD Group desks]] - the proposals which follow are consequent and predictable and are proposals which we consider unacceptable, Mr President; I simply try to list them. The Core of concreteness is established: 53 people, supermen, to whom they will be entrusted, to read the article of the bill, truly high and demanding tasks, as unlikely in their concrete realization. It goes without saying, of course, if they are all unreliable and absenteeists hardened, the installation of video surveillance systems and biometric control tools in front of the accesses. I am thinking of the 8,000 municipalities, 70 percent small municipalities, and I can imagine how biometric control and video surveillance will be achieved. I think of school leaders, many of whom have the regency of three or four inclusive institutions, who will be continuously filmed and will have an interesting overview of passages for their biographical and personal history. It also introduces a system once again focused on procedures, President, on the conformity of acts. You have introduced an amazing new legal institution, that of irregularity, when we know that in the public administration there are legitimate acts and acts not legitimate: let us imagine, again in this case, the multiplication of appeals of bodies controlled by the Nucleus concreteness at the Ministry. Again, it was remembered in a majority intervention as a kind of prize and as an example of great vision: a site of the bad guys is established; in the Ministry we will have the list of bodies that are not fulfilling or irregular, when we know - and you know it, because you are an organization expert - that the great civil and world organizations use another logic: they make sites to reward good practices. It is good practice that raises the level of an organisation such as public administration; it is good practice and the narration of efficient and effective bodies. Instead, one chooses, once again with a logic of suspicion, malice and mistrust, to make a site of the bad guys. Imagine if this could be the prospect of a reform of public administration. You have reinstated a centralist system; once again there is a suspicious approach to local authorities. You have set aside legislative production inspired by the Republic of Self-Government and the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Articles 5 and 114 of the Constitution. You have given new commitments and new prerogatives to the prefects and I am surprised that it is a political force, the colleagues of the League, who only a few decades ago proposed the abolition of prefectures, the freedom of territories, to demand, for the North, secession. Here we have the proposal of the centralist state, of a Ministry of the Interior that now - Minister, will have to worry - does everything: it controls the public administration, it controls the routes of the migrant navigators; it controls everything now. The Minister of the Interior is the Minister of the Republic. Then I wonder, Minister, why, rather than engaging in this adventure, did not try to improve what already provided for the reform of the previous government, the reform of the Madia, which had begun to fight - it must be fought, there would be no other - absenteeism. Why not strengthen that system that had already produced good results? You know, Minister, that the Civil Service Inspectorate has produced positive results in relation to the issue of quality and quantity controls, as one of its bodies has said, an internal body. So why not work in this direction? We, Minister, know the fragility of our public administration. Mrs Parente and Mr Laus have said this: public administration is a common good, not of the majority or of the opposition, and we are aware that it represents a fundamental lever to boost the competitiveness and productivity of the country system. We are aware that public administration is a strategic backbone that guarantees and produces more equity, that distributes equal opportunities, that promotes social cohesion and reduces territorial imbalances. That is all, Minister, in its provision, in the provision of this Government is not there. There is nothing about improving the quality of services. There is nothing about improving accessibility to services for citizens. There is nothing about the professional and motivational training investment of employees. Nothing is said about generational replacement. Nothing is done to introduce new young graduates and trained with digital and managerial skills. Nothing is said about the stabilisation of the many precarious young people in our public administrations. There is nothing to be said, Minister, about simplification, about the urgent need to activate simplification processes, about the deburocratisation of procedures. Nothing is said, Minister, about computerization, about digital education of citizens, which is an interesting project that could be proposed, i.e. helping citizens to access public administration platforms. Well, Minister, that's not said. In the end, his bill, concretely, what does he propose? The things I have said to you, Minister, namely the Core of Concreteness, namely 53 knights of the round table - they have increased - who will try to change and improve the quality of public administration, and video surveillance. In conclusion, Mr President, the most important subject that is not mentioned here is missing: there is a lack of citizens, there is a lack of attention to citizens. This measure does not take into account the attention of citizens. It is a measure that speaks to yourself and has not looked to the wishes, needs of the citizens. I am surprised, once again, that the President of the Count Council himself has declared himself to be the lawyer of the citizens. For this reason, precisely because the citizens are far away and unheard of in relation to the measure under consideration, the Democratic Party reiterates its conviction and determination. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u94	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I thank Minister Giulia Bongiorno for the courage he is showing in what I call not reform, but a revolution of common sense in public administration, because it takes courage to make certain decisions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I have heard of a paper castle, but this government is not a paper castle: it is a fortress, a fortress against injustices, a fortress to defend the weakest, a fortress that is carrying out changes. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The fight against absenteeism is a duty, and not an obligation. It's a duty! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The smart cards are scammers and swindlers, and we're thinking about the citizens and their right to be proactively assisted by the administrations. [[Comments of Senator Bellanova]] Biometric controls are the future, not the past. I understand that the left is still facing the old conceptions of work, but we are projected to the future and biometric controls are part of it, they are a protection for most workers in the public administration, who are honest people who will never be afraid to confront those mechanisms. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] FARAONE (PD). Minister, you must follow all the speeches and not just those of the League! President: Senator Pharaoh, have you decided to introduce a new phase into the debate? I would ask you to respect the silence and listen to my colleague, as he has done to others. The Minister is listening as he has listened to others. Until proven otherwise, I think you listen with your ears. [[Comments of Senator Pharaoh]] Senator Pharaoh, I politely call you to order. Please, Senator De Vecchis, continue with your intervention. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, bad manners do exist. FARAONE (PD). Yours! President. - Mr De Vecchis, I call on your colleagues to pay attention to the work of this House. You continue with your intervention. DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, but we have not interrupted anyone and we do not want to be interrupted. I repeat that we are really doing the revolution of common sense. [[Comments from the PD Group]] , against those who have supported and endured the law Madia, in respect of which the unions, silent, have not uttered a word. Today the CGIL, with Landini in the front row, begins to ventilate a strike in autumn. But we will also review, after fifteen years, the national collective agreement of civil servants, which you have not done. In fact, on the contrary, you discriminated against them, which we will not do. Returning to the measure, which will soon become the law of the State, the Core of concreteness - as the rapporteur, Mrs Nisini, has said well, which I thank [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - aims to be a tutor for public administrations and to implement their efficiency. This efficiency will benefit the citizens and, therefore, we think of the citizens. Among other things - I open and close a parenthesis - we will soon also have a measure on the improvement of public administration, with which we will support even more the draft law concreteness. There's something I'm puzzled about. Minister, you will confirm that the turnover has been blocked for almost 20 years, which we unlock today, allowing for a generational shift and thus achieving two results: work for young people and retirement for older staff. And here we return to what were the perplexities of the Democratic Party: new recruitments, new generation, digital and computerization, and therefore improvement of work within the public administration. Then there are also other measures: one has gone unnoticed, but we will also give answers to those employees who have undergone the provisions on food vouchers. We will also bring this improvement, namely the return and replacement of the old food vouchers, after the failure of the society that managed them, which will be relocated, bringing economic gain to families and companies. Improving public administration also means future investment by companies, because good public administration also means investment and investment also means economic recovery. That's what concreteness means. For these reasons, the League will vote strongly in favour of the draft law under consideration. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u97	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I like to start from my experience as an administrator. I cite the example of the municipality of Cagliari, in the ten years in which I had the honour of being its mayor. We got to be rewarded as the office relations with the most efficient public in Italy and this happened by responsible, involving, training and motivating our staff. That's to say what? The real reform of the public administration will take place when the public worker will have clear that the employer is not the State, but the citizen. This awareness will lead the worker to be present at the workplace and to imprint his action on criteria of efficiency and public satisfaction. The bureaucracy must be a guarantor of this principle: presence and efficiency, in the world of public work, are not always synonymous. Above all, there is a lack of an overview, which could lead to the real overall reform of public administration expected for decades by citizens and businesses; a reform that, taking into account the changing needs in the organisation of the state and the imperative need to simplify, presents an innovative and effective text. Unfortunately, the Government did not understand the scope of a serious reform of public administrations and even before the simplification of the tasks required by them. None of the texts on public administration presented so far by this Executive - and we are already four - has innovative features: above all, there is a lack of a path towards a genuine and definitive simplification of the public machinery. It must be pointed out that this text lacks the simplification that should have started with a new way of conceiving the organisation of public work. The Core of Concreteness is not enough to solve this. The word "concreteness" will continue to be lacking in a public administration that should mutual organisational models devoted to productivity and efficiency. It is not enough for the efficient civil servants, who are there and are often very prepared: we need a whole new organizational model that values the best and criminalizes those who do not do their job [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The answer cannot then be that of biometric controls at the entrance and control of sample efficiency when the Core of concreteness is presented: the organisational model must be studied, as well as with the unions of public labour, with the world of the enterprise, which obviously has good examples from which to draw inspiration. The objectives that pursue the bill have been pursued for almost forty years, from Cassese to Good Morning, but have never been achieved, while on the contrary the productive world has progressed in the organization of the company, in the levels of production, in the quality of the services, in the times of answer to the questions of the market. The world of public administration, on the contrary, has remained largely anchored in models of the past. Moreover, it is worth remembering that the Core is composed of 53 units and will have to deal with a number of administrations of little less than 10,000 units; in addition to this has been inserted a bizarre cooperation between the prefect and the Core of concreteness, which moreover goes to insert in an area in which already exist the Inspectorate for the public function and the unit for the simplification and the quality of the regulation, of which however they must be without the competence. It is also necessary to complain that the reforms of the public administration of the 1990s have tried to introduce in the public sector the criteria of work organisation and good administration of the private sector; the latter is inspired, as well as the criterion of efficiency, also that of profit which, whether willing or not, is the best judge of the quality of performance. The latter is another of the words that have always been pursued in all the reforms of the public administration, but never achieved. We reiterate that the public administration, except for rare and plausible exceptions, fails to reach the levels of private efficiency. It has not yet been possible to impose the criterion of profit with an equally valid one, which should be that of service or the common good, whose action should always be inspired by the behavior of every public employee. Today, on the contrary, anyone who wins a public competition after a diploma or after a degree, even without previous work experience, becomes essentially immovable and there is no proper measurement of the quality of work; almost everywhere there is a virtually automatic career. We must therefore bitterly note that the draft law under consideration lacks this innovative thrust; there are no references to organizational models that, if they had not wanted to borrow from the private, could certainly have been copied from countries that have a much more efficient bureaucracy than ours. There is a lack of an organic nature of the regulatory intervention that has so far been fragmented into at least four measures, which will have to follow further implementing provisions over the next eighteen months, with the real risk that any new elections that we are talking about will be able to cancel all the work that has been produced so far. Moreover, if we are at this point, it is because even the previous reform Madia still awaits many implementing decrees. The suspicion is that one changes from one reform of the public administration to another precisely because so much to write it is always the same high ministerial bureaucracy that does not want to change anything. Let me then suggest a new model to be adopted: let us write ourselves, in Parliament, a reform, after having listened carefully to all the stakeholders, i.e. those who are entitled to be heard, by those directly concerned - civil servants and trade unions - to entrepreneurs and citizens. But above all we take advantage of the most qualified foreign experiences, whose organizational models we should mutual, since the major international organizations evaluate them with precise scores. On the contrary, the government proceeds in stages, without knowing where to start and where to reach the end: that is, there is a lack of an overall picture. A company, when it has to open an international business, also takes into account the speed at which it can do so and resolve any disputes, so that the judiciary does not lack throughout the reform. Only by taking into account the best experiences can timely, shared and therefore lasting reforms be seen. A gigantic work of reorganisation of public work must be preceded by the simplification of procedures and the relationship between public administrations and counterparts, which are citizens and businesses. Simplifying the process for applications and authorisations can allow citizens and businesses to do, build and open economic and professional activities, in short, to move that firm economy also because of the bureaucracy that everything slows down, in some cases until it stops. Another thing that we can't accept - not even I who have passed the age of seventy and are of the generation of hand-picked notes on paper - is that there is no trace of a true digitization of procedures, which could allow you to operate faster. It is clear that, if procedures were simplified and perhaps digitised, ex post controls could be maintained, ensuring that there are no abuses, with a staffing requirement certainly lower than today. There would even be a positive impact on both the public accounts and the salaries of those who remain in the public administration, avoiding linear cuts and reprogramming the expenditure of the current 164 billion employees' incomes, so that those who are good can also earn more. Public administration cannot continue to be a sort of ante-literam income. In conclusion, Mr President, it is necessary to start again from a complete redesign of the public machine, presenting a balance of sustainability towards citizens, businesses and the whole country, that is, Italy of doing, which moves very quickly, while it is slowed down by that enormous pachyderma that still today, unfortunately, is the public administration. The examination of the House, Mr President, has not changed the substance of the measure which has now been discussed, so that the Forza Italia Group will confirm its negative vote and against it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u100	CAMPAGNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government today, with the adoption of this measure, which combines innovation, honesty and efficiency, we put another important piece on the road to change. In fact, a more effective system of evaluation of the performances of the Italian public administration and therefore a real improvement of its efficiency for citizens are some of the elements that distinguish, qualifying it, the contract of Government. Often our public administration has been and is - rightly, wrongly - the object of criticism and stereotypes. By being a tara among the radical opinions expressed by professional associations and ordinary citizens, intellectual honesty cannot be said that everything works for the best. Many will have, at least once in their lives, come across an inefficient public office. Not by chance, according to the 52nd report of the Censis on the social situation of the country, 52.1 percent of Italians believe that the Italian public administration works rather badly; for another 17.9 percent the same works very badly. In short, seven out of ten citizens are calling for a radical change of pace. This is precisely what led to the drafting and - shortly - the approval of this measure. Among its main objectives is to constantly reduce - in order to reach its future zeroing - the malfunction of the public machine, which, according to the CGIA of Mestre, has a very negative impact on our economy, restraining its recovery. The same association estimated that the malfunction of public administration costs more than tax evasion, which in Italy exceeds 100 billion euros per year. That is why, in the six articles that make up the bill, we have put in place a series of measures that travel in that direction. The so-called Core of concreteness, the task force that will be set up at the Department of the public service of Palazzo Chigi and that will act together with the Inspection of the public service, but without overlaps - we stress - aims to intervene where a public administration finds itself in difficulty in the implementation of the norms and, therefore, acting as a tutor. Besides, let's just say the principle that the wrong person never pays and maybe even makes a career. Let's just say it. This time, in fact, there are no shortcuts: once we have established any shortcomings on their part, public administrations will have to settle. The Core of concreteness will carry out surveys to ensure that this happens and the failure to implement the measures will involve a disciplinary responsibility of the managers and the registration of the administration in a special black list that will be published on the website of the Department of the public service, but not only. The draft law also intervenes on another hateful phenomenon, which in recent years has repeatedly occupied the pages of the newspapers: I am talking about the so-called smart cards, that is those unfaithful public employees who, in spite of any behavioral or disciplinary norm, lack respect for all honest and good citizens who - I would like to emphasize and reiterate - are the majority in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Mr Bongiorno]] How can we forget the case, which occurred in recent months in my own Sicily, in Palermo, of the 42 employees of the regional health council under investigation on the charge of aggravated fraud, abusive access to the computer system and false attestations? Those gentlemen went to the supermarket or to the hairdresser on working hours, recording false presences and covering each other. Not to mention the famous, now infamous, Sanremo watchman, who was caught punching in his underwear, and then returning undisturbed in his home. I remember another case that went up to the honors of the chronicle, namely the letter in 2014 from the mayor of Locri, who even turned to Jesus Christ, begging him to do something to provide to free him from the absenteeism of municipal employees. And I could go on, but I'd rather stay here. This vicious circle had to be broken, acting where the previous reforms of the public administration (in the end, that of the Democratic Party) failed. Again, the numbers speak for themselves: from a recent in-depth study of the daily newspaper "La Stampa" based on the re-processing of raw data collected by the Public Service Inspectorate, as well as on the interventions of qualified specialists, it emerges that the number of dismissals for disciplinary reasons, on the total of civil servants, is residual (one every 10,015 in 2017, i.e. 0.009 percent). Even looking at the percentage of disciplinary procedures that close with the removal from work, the numbers are laughable: there was just 3.77 percent in 2017, however, given in decrease compared to the previous year. Precisely for this reason, except for teachers, which has been used for criticism without substance, the bill introduces the so-called biometric recognition of identity, as well as the installation of video surveillance devices. I want to be very clear on the point: this is not a punitive measure. Let's face it, it's not. [[Applause from the M5S Group, Senator De Vecchis and Minister Bongiorno]] On the contrary, the law is aimed at protecting all virtuous civil servants, who are many, but who, because of unfaithful colleagues, are branded as idlers. We come to the third pillar of the measure, but certainly not less important: the fight against absenteeism is accompanied by a maxiplan of assumptions to finally unblock, at 100%, the turnover in the public administration. Attention, however: it is not an infamous, but a targeted and quality generational replacement, with young people prepared. In the July 2017 report "Government at a Glance" the OECD (the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) said that Italy, among the industrialised countries, is the one with the highest percentage of state employees over fifty-five years old (45 percent, against an average of 24 in the whole area, where 18 percent are less than thirty-four years old). Precisely for this reason, with the adoption of the draft law, we will create a mechanism that we could define as the trail of recruitment. For every employee who retires, public administrations will have the opportunity to employ an indeterminate young person with digital skills to simplify administrative processes, management of structural funds, management control and inspection activities. Only in this way will the Italian public administration finally be equal to those of other European countries. For all these reasons, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u102	Senator Nencini, as you know, according to the Rules of Procedure, there would be grounds for not accepting your request to intervene in dissent. However, in a climate of full cooperation with the opposition, the Presidency takes note of its request and gives it the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u103	Mr President, I warned the Presidency that I would speak in dissent from the Group, and I explain why. I will not participate in the final vote, because I expected, in the presence of the Minister, when Article 4 was dealt with, that some clarification would be given to the House - which was not done - on an issue already raised in this House by two questions, but they did not receive a reply from the relevant Minister. The theme is that of the competition for school leaders banned in 2017 and opened since 2018. We are in perfect violation of the principle of contextuality and uniqueness of proof, as well as anonymity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u104	Senator Nencini, as you belong to the Mixed Group, I have no reason to intervene as a Rules of Procedure. So if you want to make a dissenting statement from what Senator Laforgia said, you have two minutes. If he wanted to reopen the debate, he could have asked to speak during the general discussion. Mr President, I do not intend to reopen the debate, but I would like you to leave me the forty seconds to which I am entitled. Mr President, listening to your speech, I made a note on the subject. NENCINI (Misto-PSI). I am delighted, Mr President, and I would like you to do so more often. PRESIDENT. - The debate is When I preside, I do.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u105	I have appealed to Article 4 and to the presence of a Minister who, in my opinion, has not responded to a very topical issue, which has already been raised. In the absence of any clarification on an article in which the Assembly took note by voting on the amendments to it and then the article itself, in anticipation of the final vote, I will not participate, precisely because the issue of recruitment in school matters remains one of the key points when it comes to public administration. If, of course, I had been confronted, I would have avoided using the two minutes that the Presidency kindly granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u106	Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 3.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3.31 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u107	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 980 and 885. The rapporteur, Senator Pillon, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u108	Mr President, the measure we are preparing to consider together concerns an amendment to Article 643 of the Criminal Code, which aims to introduce a specific criminal provision that would prevent the inability of a Member State more effectively. As you well know, today the case of the inability Circ Convention is essentially governed by two rules: Article 643, in the current version, as it is codified today, and Article 640, on the general scam and its aggravating factors. However, it is necessary to introduce this new case because, as you know, the scam requires proof of artifices and deceptions that are not always easy to prove and, in many cases, it has been shown that scams against the elderly were not punished criminally as it was difficult to prove this aspect. On the other hand, as regards the current provision on the circonvention of inability, the formulation of the crime referred to in Article 643 of the Criminal Code involves a legal interpretation that has very narrowed the scope of application of the norm, particularly restricting it only to damage of a strictly patrimonial nature and fraud committed in the injury of the person of offense and not through it to third persons. It was also necessary to highlight particularly the circumstance of the age of the offended person, because it is linked to it all a congery of crimes that is told us by the statistics that I am about to illustrate. In the last three years we have had 32,000 cases of credit card cloning in Italy, 240,000 cases of false operators of public bodies, companies or associations that have approached the elderly to get delivered valuables, 441,000 cases of donations made to people who then turned out to be scammers and 201,000 cases of real scams. We also have a considerable incidence of facts that have not always been able to qualify as a crime: I refer for example to 1,051,000 cases of contracts signed for the purchase of goods, goods or services, land, cars, encyclopedias, training courses or telephone contracts carried out against the actual will of the elder; or to 135,000 cases of contracts concluded with firms, companies or cooperatives then fictitious or non-existent results. Then there are 129,000 cases of deception with requests for money to help someone with financial or health problems or even made to false relatives, who then turned out not to be at all; there are also 288,000 cases of deception at the expense of the elderly, with the prospect of large lottery winnings, profitable investments or - worse still - job promises; we also have 503,000 cases where completely false contracts have been concluded. In the face of this immense conspiracy against the elderly, I believe that the legislator can no longer remain inert. We have therefore presented the draft law under consideration, which amends Article 643 of the penal code, considering to add a paragraph to that already in force, so as not to introduce Article 643-a into the penal code, which would certainly have been a burden. We have then provided the case referred to in the additional paragraph to Article 643 as follows: At the same penalty (i.e. the one referred to in the preceding paragraph, which is set up to the extent of imprisonment from two to six years and a fine from 500 euros to 2,000 euros) anyone, to the same end (we have therefore maintained the specific dole provided for in the case referred to in Article 643, paragraph 1), abusing the condition of weakness or vulnerability due to the age of a person, induces some to carry out an act that amounts to any legal effect for him or other harmful person. As you have understood, this case greatly extends the configurability of the crime, for which it is not necessary to prove the existence of the artifices and scams necessary to configure the scam. There is a typical behavior - abuse of the condition of weakness or vulnerability - that is linked to the victim's age. The age is not deliberately defined, because it is very difficult from the point of view of the configuration of the criminal case (i.e. the taxableness of the penal norm): in fact, if we had added even only the reference to the advanced age, the question of the assessment of the age from which a person is considered elderly would have been raised. I am sure that there are many colleagues in this House over sixty-five years of age who are careful not to consider themselves to be elderly (and I think I can also say that I am right). Just to avoid this type of discrimination based on the date of birth, the expression was left open, so as to give the judge the opportunity to assess. Moreover, the case is not open and that is enough, because, if we compare it with paragraph 1 (which punishes similar conduct brought against minors), it is easy to understand that in this case the problem is to protect not already minors (which are already protected by paragraph 1), but - vice versa - the elderly. Moreover, it is necessary that the conduct leads to an abuse of the condition of weakness or vulnerability; moreover, in order to constitute this crime, which we wanted to sanction in a very substantial way (with very heavy penalties, from two to six years of imprisonment), it is necessary that the induction is not only directed towards the actual person offended, but can also be configured towards others. It happens very often, in fact, as shown also by statistics, that the scam or circumvention is operated to the detriment of one person in order to convince another: think, for example, of a couple of elderly spouses, in the context of which pressure is put on the wife to obtain that the husband carries out an act of disposition, deliver a good or sign a contract. In this way, it will be possible to sanction the conduct of circumvention, even if to act materially (i.e. to perform the deed device) is not the person approached by the malicious, but a third. As I said, statistics reveal that this type of activity is mainly carried out with regard to families or elderly people living as couples. Always going back to the case referred to in Article 1, the operative act must not be closely linked to the scope of the assets, otherwise we would fall within the limitation of the range of application of paragraph 1. In this case, therefore, induction is not a strictly patrimonial act, but any kind of act, provided that it amounts to a legal effect, which therefore can also be - I repeat - non-patrimonial content, harmful to itself or even to other persons. We therefore think that we have covered all the predictable and imaginable in relation to the phenomenon that I have extensively outlined in my incipit. With regard to Article 2, we expect an amendment to Article 165, sixth paragraph, of the Criminal Code, introducing the obligation for the person convicted for this type of crime to compensate in full the offence in order to be able to benefit from the conditional suspension of the sentence. It is therefore a very strong signal of the legislator, which subordinates the granting of conditional suspension - and therefore of the legal benefits related to it - to the full compensation of the damage to the person offended. I shall conclude, with regard to Article 3, with the anticipation of an amendment by the rapporteur. In other words, we made an assessment in the Commission, because the initial idea - the bill of Senator Ostellari from which the measure took the first steps - provided for compulsory arrest in flagrant crime. However, we felt that this should be changed, because there might be cases where investigators should be better able to wait to intervene so as to find out who the accomplices might be or to trace back to the perpetrators of this type of illegal activity, which would have prevented compulsory arrest. We have therefore preferred to refer to the case referred to in Article 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. the optional arrest in flagrant crime. However, because of the amount of the sentence, which - as I said - provides for a maximum of six years, the provision in Article 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure already applies quoad poenam, so it is already provided for optional arrest in flagrante of crime. At first we had assessed the intention to maintain the provision in Article 3, namely to give a signal not related to the amount of punishment, as to the nature of the crime; however, we have then considered this proposition ultronea, so advance already that I will ask for Article 3 to be deleted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u109	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us first of all take action because this is a text on which we have discussed for a long time with the President of the Forza Italia Group in the Commission, Senator Caliendo, and also because an amendment has been tabled on this subject, which I shall discuss later. We would also like to thank Senator Cangini in particular, because the debate in the Commission was born, yes, from the text of Senator Ostellari, who was chosen as the basis, but also from the combination with that of Mr Cangini, who, because of his professionalism, I assume has dealt with the issue of fraud against the elderly. After listening carefully to the rapporteur with regard to statistics, a figure emerges not only related to numbers, which impress, but to their progressive increase: we recorded an increase of about 10-15 percent of figures each year, however important (I refer to those tested, because it is not easy to identify all the scams done to the elderly, some of which do not denounce because they are ashamed, quite common circumstance, or consider it useless). For these reasons, the text, which seems to be of little importance, actually sets out a particular case, taking into account the phenomena that occur in these times. Several advices are given by law enforcement, police and police forces, in an attempt to inform people at a certain age of the risks they run if they let someone into the house. It's true: a lot of scams have been carried out through false geometries of the municipality or fake technicians; one of the best known to the chronicle is even that of a guy who pretended to be primary to visit an elderly woman and subsequently rob her; then there is the classic scam of those who pretend to have a sick son to ask the elder for money on duty. It is therefore necessary to pay great attention, even from an exquisitely social point of view, because it is true what Senator Pillon said before: in our society at sixty-five or seventy years old you are still young, but there are also ninety-nine or ninety-five years old who can be the subject of these scams; maybe you make them believe that there is the possibility of obtaining a prize or a gain by selling goods, or they fool themselves with the excuse of Enel bills or water, or the checks of the INPS. The imagination of the Italians for the scam against the elderly has actually exceeded every limit, to the point of making this regulatory intervention necessary. Senator Caliendo will certainly speak about this more accurately and punctually than I do, but we have considered it appropriate to table an amendment and we would like to reflect on this. The bill contains an important forecast: if you want to obtain the conditional suspension of the sentence, you must have made the legal payments. In the amendment we tabled, we specified the obligation of refunds and the payment of the sum cleared, including by way of commission. We say this because, in our general legal culture, it is often a much more effective deterrent than a reckless or unfair increase in the penalty. We believe that the text can be further improved from this point of view. We naturally hope that the bill in our examination, from the very simple articulation, can serve to improve in general the lives of the elderly who live in our cities and in our country, for which there was no specific case. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u111	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u112	Mr President, I speak only to thank the Senator Riccardi, and with her the entire Movimento 5 Star Group, Senator Caliendo, and with him the whole Forza Italia Group, Senator Cucca, and with him the whole Democratic Party Group, and Senator Stancanelli, and with him the whole of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, for the effective collaboration that led to this text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u113	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u114	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u115	We now come to the examination of the articles of draft law No 980, in the text proposed by the Commission. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u116	Mr President, I am against Amendment 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u117	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u121	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I very much welcome the rapporteur's thanks, because this is one of the cases in which we are dealing with a particularly sensitive issue and there is a desire for dialogue in the Commission, although on an objectively very, very narrow legislative proposal, but which responds - this time indeed - to situations that have been created and which are very often created. The senator who preceded me well explained the reasons why it is really necessary to approve this measure. However, I think it is important to stress once again in this House the need to identify a better definition, adding the word 'advanced' when it comes to age, precisely because of the reasons which are opposed to those put forward by the rapporteur. The subject has been the subject of a long debate in the Commission; I believe that this requirement arises from the reading of the last case-law which, when there are interpretative doubts, prefers to delete the existence of such a rule. Finding an advanced age does not mean excluding a younger person, because for young people - if young people can be treated - there is the other part of the article. To indicate, however, the advanced age means to fully qualify the legal case. It is for this reason that we have proposed this amendment, precisely to give a certain answer, that it leaves no room for interpretation to the magistrates who will then have to apply the rule, so we will insist and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u122	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u123	Mr President, Amendment 2.100, which is not mine, as you can see, but is taken from the text of Senator Cangini's bill, does not address a technical-legal issue, but rather an Italian-speaking one. Read the current text of article 165 of the penal code, sixth paragraph, and this amendment: the persons who will be victims of the crimes referred to in Article 1 are guaranteed that the person who commits the crime will have the possibility to obtain the conditional suspension of the sentence if he has met certain conditions: restitution, compensation of the damage and any allowances allocated in advance. Therefore, in recalling the spirit in which we have approached these draft laws from the outset in the Commission, with cooperation from all sides, I call on the rapporteur to ensure greater protection. Indeed, it is by no means a political question, but a technical one which, through better formulation of the norm in the Italian language, extends the field of protection to all. I therefore believe that everyone can understand this and I think that the rapporteur's intelligence cannot be conditioned by the fact that the amendment is of the opposition or of the majority. Therefore, as I have always done in my parliamentary experience by also supporting the amendments and activities of parties or opposition groups - the President is aware of this - I expect the same, because I believe that there is still room today to ensure the best formulation of a rule in the interests of citizens and victims. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u124	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u125	Mr President, I quickly respond to Mr Caliendo because of the spirit of loyal cooperation he had created in the Commission. I am opposed to Amendment 2,100 because the political indication is not to touch further on Article 165 of the penal code, which has already undergone considerable changes and which risks inconsistencies. That's why we preferred to leave the norm as it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u126	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u127	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u128	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u129	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u130	Having not been tabled on Article 3 other amendments than the deletion of the amendment 3,100 tabled by the rapporteur, I refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on the retention of the Rule. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of Amendment No 100, which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u131	Mr President, precisely because we have just deleted the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, I am in favour of Amendment No 100, subject to the following rewording: add before the words: 'and other measures', the words: 'and the Code of Criminal Procedure'. Then the new text of the amendment will be as follows: "In the title of the draft law, delete the following words: "and to the code of criminal procedure and other measures"
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u132	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u133	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment Tit.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u136	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the frequent reports of fraud against older people are particularly hateful. The fantasy of the scammers is wide. Many of these scams have to do with fake operators of light, gas, water, even fake policemen or policemen who with plausible excuses enter the homes of the most lonely and most vulnerable people. Often information is even used on the most expensive affections (children, grandchildren), to grab cash and jewelry: a kind of panic caused by accidents, trouble with justice, situations of danger. They are, as I said, hateful behaviors, crimes that add pettyness to illegal behavior. Each of these scams is already denounced today and, whenever possible, punished by our system of Italian laws and justice; only that often are not put in place by the scammer those artifices and scams that constitute the constituent element of the crime of fraud, so they can also be acquitted. The penal code, in Article 643, already punishes with imprisonment and with a pecuniary penalty, in order to procure to itself or to others a profit, abusing the needs, passions or inexperience of a minor person, or abusing the state of infirmity and psychic deficiency of a person, even if not banned or disabled, induces him to carry out an act that amounts to any legal effect for her or other harmful person. Conditions necessary for the existence of the crime, therefore, are represented by the existence of an infirmity or psychic deficiency, the knowledge of which by the author is indispensable premise. In other words, abuse occurs when the offender has a clear awareness of the condition of sickness or deficiency and therefore consciously takes advantage of it. These are the difficulties that have been encountered in trying to suppress this kind of crime. In 2015, in compliance with what the European Union has been demanding for some time, Article 90-c ("Condition of Special Vulnerability") was appropriately introduced into the Code of Criminal Procedure, which includes this very concept, also in relation to the age of the victims, and which reads as follows: In the light of the provisions of this Code, the condition of particular vulnerability of the offending person shall be determined, in addition to the age and state of infirmity or psychic deficiency, the type of crime, the manner and circumstances of the case for which it is proceeding. So the concept of vulnerability, this new concept that we introduce, is actually already present in our system and is well characterized in the code of criminal procedure by this article 90-c, even if it refers to other types of crime. Even according to the case law, for the application of Article 143 of the Criminal Code (the Circ Convention of Inability), it is not necessary that the taxable person is completely deprived of the capacity to understand and to want, but it is sufficient that the same verses in a state that deprive him - says the jurisprudence - of normal discernment and critical and volitional power, causing him to perform acts that a person of medium capacity would not be induced to perform. The proposal therefore ultimately calls for the concept of vulnerability to be added to the penal code, strengthening it with the concept of weakness and accompanying it with age. These are the novelties that are introduced into our criminal law. The special protection of minors in Article 643 of the penal code has already been clarified, even if the abuse of the state of infirmity, passions or the inexperience of a child is required, it is clear that this bill refers to the age of the child. There is no doubt that the elder can be a privileged victim of this crime and the facts of the news unfortunately prove it. Having proposed the advanced age in my opinion would have limited this relative concept of age, because the judges, already having to interpret weakness and vulnerability, with the advanced age would have had an additional concept to interpret. So that there is not is in my opinion less reductive and gives more scope for the application of the rule by the judges. The specific vulnerability that characterizes the elder exposes him in a particular way to the risk of remaining the victim of suggestions, environmental pressures, external influences, in other words to that activity of induction to carry out legal acts of itself harmful that constitutes one of the fundamental elements already of the crime of circumvention. We can therefore consider that the proposed rule is a sort of particular alert, a light bulb that we light and that, adding in fact little in my opinion to the existing rule, draws the judge's attention to a particular condition, also with reference to the age of the victim. Therefore, the measure we are debating today and which we are about to approve is certainly not a revolution in criminal matters, but a more precise definition of it, with the aim of filling in the legislative gap often already filled by the interpretations of the courts. However, if the concept of vulnerability, as seen, is already known to the penal code and to the jurisprudence, the concept of weakness is, so to speak, absolutely new. We trust that the judges will be able to give the interpretation of this concept the greatest possible effectiveness for the protection of the elderly and, among other things, weakness and vulnerability must be related. Moreover, the very concept of age, not being explained with a threshold of age, as the rapporteur himself said, leaves to the interpretation of the judge of the specific case the objective criteria to be anchored in the decision. The second novelty is that even those who are convicted of the offence of a criminal offence of inability and fraud must provide for the full compensation of the damage in order to be able to access the conditional suspension of the sentence, a measure that had already been introduced for other crimes, such as that referred to in Article 624-a of the Criminal Code, and that therefore can give more effectiveness to the application of this article. Article 3, duly deleted, was absolutely useless precisely because the offence of a criminal offence of inability, being punished with the sentence from two to six years (which therefore exceeded the maximum three years), already allowed the optional arrest in flagrante of crime, so it was absolutely redundant to include in this list referred to in Article 381 of the Code of Criminal Procedure the crime referred to in Article 643 of the Criminal Code. Let me conclude by saying that, as has already been argued, we are faced with a measure which does not substantially change the sanctioning framework or the legal framework, simply specifying certain behaviors that have already been sanctioned by the courts in practice. I believe, however, that the draft law we are debating is positive because it protects a fragile category such as the elderly. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Mixed-Free and Equal Groups. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u139	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will also vote in favour of this draft law, because at the moment it considers it important to put in place a further legislative measure to protect our many elderly people. We all know that the average age of our population is increasing more and more, as well as fortunately the life expectancy; however, along with these certainly positive effects, millions of elderly people are often left alone and are increasingly helpless. Once the families were numerous and within them the protection of the weakest and less capable of realizing that they are victims of fraud took place spontaneously; today the elderly are often alone and abandoned to themselves. On this point too, we would need more reflection here too. The measure proposed today, which is to amend Article 643 by adding a second paragraph to protect older people more effectively, is, therefore, absolutely shared by us, although we do not think that it can be considered sufficient. The previous speakers have already explained that, with regard to minors, the current wording of Article 643 of the Criminal Code provides more than effective protection, punishing those who abuse their needs, their passions and their inexperience. People are already protected who are also in a state of partial or momentary psychic discomfort, mental illness or psychic deficiency. This, however, very often at trial level is not enough to punish the countless frauds with which, unfortunately, the fantasy of criminals never ceases to amaze us. The chronicles, in fact, are full of episodes of this kind every day, in which reality surpasses the imagination, because these criminals daily invent a new way to take advantage of people who are no longer able to defend themselves adequately. It is right, therefore, in our opinion, to extend the case with regard to age, certainly it will be an advanced age, there is no doubt about this, but it was right not to include it in the norm because this assessment must be left to the fair appreciation and assessment of the specific case by the judge. However, it will clearly be an advanced age, which has made the subject more vulnerable, weaker and incapable of realizing that he is facing an ill-meaning person. However, expanding the situation when an elder is involved is a way to make it easier to punish these miserable, miserable criminals who take advantage of the weakest. Similarly, we agree with Article 2, which provides that the conditional suspension of the sentence is subject to full compensation for the damage, both in the case of fraud and in the case of a failure to act. For the truth, we of Brothers of Italy have already on several occasions reiterated that in our opinion the conditional suspension of the sentence should always be subject to compensation for the damage. This is not the case today, but we believe that the State, when it establishes a crime, before granting conditional suspension of the sentence, must ensure that at least the offender has compensated the damage and the harmful consequences that he has caused by his unlawful action. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u142	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I shall be very brief, not to repeat what has already been abundantly and comprehensively explained. I still like to point out the fact that this measure intervenes on a subject which, as I said earlier, is very much felt. The entrances into the homes of the elderly are on the agenda, perhaps by self-appointed INPS inspectors who have money delivered. It is on the agenda those people who move around dealing with managers - now with the liberalization of tariffs is also happening - and who basically convince defenseless people how an elderly person can be, threatening who knows what. Some have even been told that by law they must change the tariff rules of their electricity or gas supply contract. These are events that have occupied broadcasts such as "Le Hyenas," which have also recently spoken of similar cases. In fact, in all these circumstances the extremes of the scam are defined, of what we want to strike with these norms, that is, the circumvention of people who are obviously not unable to understand and want, as has been so far with Article 643. In many circumstances - as the rapporteur said very well in his introductory report - the judge who found himself having to apply the rule could not in fact recognize the existence of a crime, either because the artifices and tricks referred to in Article 640 of the penal code in relation to the scam are very difficult to integrate, or because Article 643 applies only when people are not able to understand and want. So today we have really remedied a need that was particularly felt and we hope that the introduction of this rule, which we will shortly be voting on, will also work as a deterrent once we start applying it constantly for those things that we have talked about and continue to talk about until we approve it. I would like to highlight once again the climate in the Commission: I very much liked the way in which we have worked and I think it is appropriate to stress this because, ladies and gentlemen, the minority does not put an end to itself: it is certainly not in my ranks and I have never intended to do so. I really like the comparison, which was there: as you have seen, we think differently and I continue to think of it in a certain way, but the majority rightly voted and it is correct that we go on like this, considering that any gaps can then be filled also in a case-law. The climate that has been created should be the same that we would like to intervene for other measures of greater importance, because I believe that the task of the legislator is to avoid any interpretation doubts. Unfortunately, in the last period, beyond some electoral ads that we have pointed out several times, we have left objectively wide margin of discretion in the interpretation of the rules that we have approved and this certainly does not bring good to those who then have to observe them or will have to apply them directly in the course of the judgments. If we stick to this tight and continuous confrontation, we would probably get much better results than we have had until today: the same facts of the last days have shown that, when we leave interpretative doubts, the damage then arrives. As I have said, the events of the last few days with regard to the measures we have recently approved - I am referring, for example, to the one on self-defense - are also proof that situations of discomfort and tension can arise and that, above all, there can be room for doubt as to the actual scope of the rules that would be our task, as good legislators, to avoid. The Democratic Party will vote strongly in favour of this measure, which we are sure will have effects and, indeed, we hope it will produce them as soon as possible. In particular, we hope that the existence of this rule will also be disclosed now, so that many of the people who continue to move undisturbedly around the homes of our elders will be careful not to do so and know that they will be severely punished from now on. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u145	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the whole Commission group, as has already been done, because, as Senator Cucca has just said, there has been a good climate of cooperation. I believe that the rule we are about to adopt today is of quality, not only from a legal point of view, but also from a political point of view. This rule has, in my view, a dual function. It certainly has a punitive function, because in any case we are going to provide the magistrates with additional instruments aimed at really punishing those who are guilty of certain crimes, of certain actions absolutely unholy. It is, however, further important - and I agree - that this rule be properly made known, including through the media, so that it can perform not only the punitive function, but also the deterrent function, so that these criminals who, too often, as we read in the newspapers and see through the news, abuse and exploit people who are in any case in difficulty, can really cease to carry out this kind of criminal behaviour and so that all our citizens, even those who are old with some problems, can enjoy their lives in a quiet way. I don't know if this has happened to you, but I do: both in my capacity as a lawyer and as a grandson, I have seen what the effects of these criminal conducts can be. I have seen cases of people contacting older people, telling them that the child has had a problem and that they have to pay even 1,500 euros, or, using the scam, already mentioned, of the fake contracts to be signed, asking for sums, and not just sums, to people in difficulty. The consequences are also seen at a later stage: people who no longer have the slightest confidence in their neighbors and no longer have any confidence in themselves. This, I believe, is an absolutely serious fact and, in this sense, we must not only approve this rule from a political and legal point of view, but we must also be involved in a process of greater awareness in our territories, in our homes, with our neighbours, with all those we meet every day to try to combat this phenomenon, absolutely serious and contrary to any principle of humanity, even before respect. I do not want to go any further, because the considerations made from the legal point of view, first of all by the rapporteur and then by all those who have spoken, I do some of my own. Therefore, in a climate of increased confidence in these institutions, since we are going to vote unanimously today, I believe that this can be a really good example, not only for all the people who have suffered this kind of problem, but also for all our citizens and our voters, so that they can understand that these institutions can work for purposes that go beyond the mere elections. In this sense, with great pride and without rhetoric, I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u148	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I have always felt and continue to believe that politics has a lot to do with the conflict. Paraphrasing von Clausewitz, it is the continuation of war by other means. And I continue to believe that the political game takes place around the friendly-enemy binomial and the identities are created: the identities of the parties, the identities of the coalitions, of the governments, of the leadership. There are, however, moments and issues where conflict should fail: and sometimes it happens. This is one of those days. It usually happens when there are principles at stake and when those principles adhere to the need to protect the weakest, which in the end, perhaps, is the deepest sense of political action. No one today is weaker than the elderly, not only because of their physical weakness, but because of the social role, as some of my colleagues mentioned earlier, which they once had and which they no longer have today. Today the elderly are as never alone, often abandoned, often far from their affections; they have been denied in fact by the society in which we live the representation of those values because of which the elder once had a social prestige. Those values are memory, knowledge, experience: today's values are devalued and together with them the function of the elder has been devalued, which is very weak and vulnerable. It is then our duty to take on this weakness and vulnerability, creating a system that protects the elderly as much as possible. The figures are those quoted by the rapporteur; the phenomenon is frightening and growing. Within this short time of our debate, from the statistical point of view, some 15 elderly people have been or will be conned. I denounced the phenomenon, when there was still little talk about it, with a journalistic campaign. I like to remember the first case we recounted. The lady's name was Neva Spagna, she was eighty-eight years old, she was from Bologna, she was conned, she fell into depression following the event and four months later she died. It's not a rare case. We've told so many, so many such cases. The real problem is not given by what is taken away, by material goods that are taken away from the elder, whether it is money or a handful of jewels. The real problem is the psychological repercussions on the elderly of such events. The elder feels alone, all the more so, vulnerable, all the more vulnerable, at the mercy of anyone and no longer able to lead a dignified life. The immune defenses fall, the diseases advance, very often such facts end with death. So we're not talking about scams, we're talking about something much more serious and bigger. The Head of State joined this campaign, we received a letter from his spokesperson talking about hateful crime and disturbing phenomenon; a legislative process began which was then interrupted by the interruption of the legislature. It seemed natural to me once elected to this function, and it was among the very first things I did, to file a bill to resume the theme and to heal this injustice in fact. I am very pleased to have listened to my fellow Members in the Committee on Justice and the debate today and to see that the conflict has been suspended, that the weapons have been laid down and that we have all participated, each one because of his own sensitivity and his own point of view. Of course, points of view and feelings are not all the same, but everyone shared the principle. Yes, the law, from my personal point of view and Forza Italia in general, could have been better adjusted, but - I dare say - they are details, they say that the best is enemy of the good. The important thing is that the law sees the light and that those cowards without honor, who are stained with such hateful crimes, now actually risk prison. It's a really nice day for me and, I think, for all of us. Today the Senate not only fills a void in terms of criminal law, but above all affirms a very urgent principle for the reasons I said before, because we have perhaps lost sight of some values, we have perhaps severed our roots a little too much and, consequently, made our elders lose their role. Today, this House sets out an important principle: old age is sacred and those who harm life, interest or even the balance of an elder, commit the most vile of crimes and do not deserve to live free next to us. Forza Italia will naturally vote in favour of a rule that has contributed substantially to writing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u151	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us contains an unwritten motion from an important part of the population of our country, the one represented by the elderly. The category of people of advanced age, as Mr Cucca rightly says, becomes a centre of interest because it deserves attention and the necessary and adequate protection, the one that must be addressed to those who, because of their age, often find themselves in a state of particular emotional vulnerability, with a impairment of the capacity to perceive reality, a weakening of the volitional sphere that makes fragile and easy prey of profiteers. This majority, showing sensitivity on a subject that involves our whole society, takes charge of the problem and responds by introducing an amendment to the crime of circumvention of persons who are incapable provided for in Article 643 of the Criminal Code; a substantial modification specifically intended to combat criminal conduct and abuses in the detriment of the elderly. In fact, the crime of circumvention of incapable persons, as currently provided for in our penal code, cannot constitute a sufficient response, being a general rule with respect to which it has often been the elaboration of case law to modulate the scope of the cases in which the victim is elderly. Here, then, with the bill that deals with us inserts a new paragraph to article 643 that integrates the criminal case punishing specifically the conducts aimed at abusing the condition of weakness and vulnerability due to the advanced age of a person in order to induce it to carry out an act that amounts to any legal effect for him or for others harmful. We have, therefore, taken note of the exponential increase in crimes against the elderly, so much so that the introduction of the new paragraph stands almost as an act due in response to the facts of the news that daily are a strong call that shakes the sensitivity of all of us. There is no day when they do not register on the whole national level - no excluding Region, from the North to the South of Italy - this type of events that see the elderly alone become victims of unscrupulous people who show up with affable activity, earn their trust and take advantage of the weakness originated by the loneliness or the condition of decay of mental faculties that compromise their ability to perceive reality and react and that translates into a particular emotional vulnerability. It is precisely from this particular vulnerability, from this being bearers of a vulnus and a wound that makes it fragile that the perpetrators of these crimes consciously benefit by causing the elderly person to have their own money and assets without resisting. Every time the news reports of new episodes, it's like watching a movie that's already seen. The methods, in fact, are reproduced identical: the profiteers enter into the graces of the poor victims and, after having obtained their trust even pretending to be operators of all kinds, even of the Forces of order, have the money delivered, drain the bank account, make them make a will in their favor and make themselves registered goods. We cannot overlook also the further correct reading of the phenomenon that leads us to note that evidently the effects produced by the circumvention of the elderly do not only cause economic damage, but also cause a certain emotional and psychological trauma, which will make them even more fragile and will close them more and more in their solitude. Often the elderly victim does not denounce the abuses suffered because he is ashamed; thus increases the sense of inadequacy and guilt for not being able to understand the situation and defend himself. Article 1 of this draft law introduces a new paragraph to article 643 of the penal code which expressly extends also to the Circ Convention of the elderly the same strong sanctioning response provided for by the norm that punishes the circumvention of the incapable persons, that is the imprisonment from two to six years and the fine from 206 to 2,065 euros. In addition, in the case of a conviction, Article 2 makes conditional suspension of the sentence conditional upon the full payment of the sum paid as compensation for the damage to the injured person. Having grasped this deplorable phenomenon recognizing its specificity in an ad hoc forecast and having foreseen its punishment in the indicated terms is certainly an effective and certain response to counter it both from a repressive point of view and from a preventive point of view. It must be added that the regulatory measures under consideration are affecting our society, which has profoundly changed compared to the past and in which, according to the ISTAT annual report of 2018, births have been falling for nine years and the population is assured of an ever higher life expectancy. In fact, we are one of the longest-lived countries on earth. Until last year, Italy was the second oldest country in the world, after Japan. At present, the new estimates attest to this in third place. This means that Italian inhabitants live on average 82.9 years and that our country is destined to maintain this important primacy. Unfortunately, however, the social structure that traditionally characterized our country has changed and the family structure has changed compared to the past, when the elder represented the depositary of the cultural heritage of the community. At present, more and more elderly people are living in solitude and far from affection. For them there is an increasing risk of isolation, which exposes them to criminal and hateful phenomena, such as what we will fight even more with the new crime that we intend to introduce. Mr President, I should like to end by hoping that the value of old age will be rediscovered in our society. The commitment of the Movimento 5 Stars is and will still be to recognize its rights and the unrogability of their protection. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to this measure and I would like to thank the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u152	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 980, as a whole, in the amended text, with the following title: "Modifications to the penal code in the matter of circumvention of elderly persons." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] The draft law No 885 is therefore absorbed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u153	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1088. The rapporteur, Senator Candura, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying and implementing the Agreement, with its Annex and its implementing Protocols, signed between Italy and Kenya, concerning the Luigi Broglio Space Centre in Malindi, Kenya. The understanding responds to the need to provide an updated regulatory framework through which to regulate the relations between Italy and Kenya in the matter of space cooperation, in consideration of the historical Italian presence at the base of Malindi, the only Italian space center located in foreign territory. It is recalled that the Luigi Broglio Space Centre, created in 1964 and managed since 2004 by the Italian Space Agency, is a very important ground control station for space missions and has also been a launch base for space satellites. This center represents a pole of excellence of our technology outside the national territory and a qualifying instrument of our scientific collaboration with Kenya and the entire African continent. Given its strategic geographical location, this station is an ideal site for the launch of satellites and related scientific research and data collection activities. The structure was also used by the European Space Agency (ESA) in the framework of a Trilateral Protocol between Italy, Kenya and ESA, which looks forward to being renewed at the outcome of the conclusion of this negotiations between Italy and Kenya. The current functioning of the base is governed by an intergovernmental agreement signed in 1995 and last renewed until 31 October 2016. The new understanding takes up the contents of the previous Agreement and defines the terms and conditions relating to the use of the base by our Space Agency. The intention is to make the base of Malindi, and more generally of Kenya, the core of a space cooperation extended to the countries of the Horn of Africa and East Africa, with important strategic implications of a scientific, technological and programmatic nature. The draft ratification law consists of four articles which provide for the authorisation of ratification, order of execution, the clause of financial invariance and entry into force. Article 3, that on the clause of financial invariance, requires that the burdens deriving from the measure, quantified in little more than 800,000 euros annually, be provided within the ordinary budget of the Italian Space Agency, without that they must derive new or greater burdens from our public finance. The Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, European law or other international obligations entered into by our country. Before I ask the House to vote in favour, I would like this House to recall the engineer Luigi Broglio, born in 1911 and died in 2001, since the centre is named after him. [[Applause from Senator Casini.]] He was the father of the Italian Air Force and Astronautics. Among the things he realized, I remember only a theoretical contribution recognized worldwide on structural calculation for jets with arrow wing, but above all he was founder and director of the first Faculty of Aeronautics, at the Sapienza in Rome. He was the father of the first Italian satellite, San Marco I, which was among other things the first satellite not launched by the Soviet Union or the United States, that is, by the two world superpowers, but by a third country. Broglio, founder of this space center, is one of those many Italian geniuses at the level of Guglielmo Marconi or Enrico Fermi, but sometimes they are not adequately remembered. I remember it because we have to start the bike to say that there is reason to be proud to be born in this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, PD and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u155	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u156	Mr President, I have asked for two reasons. The first is the ratification of this agreement, which, as the rapporteur rightly said, highlights an Italian excellence which we, unfortunately, often forget in today's news. An excellence that concerns aviation: Italy has historically been the country in which the air force developed in the twentieth century, and this has made Italy, in fact, an excellence in the world. In this case, even more specific, these are satellites, because the satellites started from the base of Malindi. The Malindi phase marked the Italian and European satellite industry and technology efficiency. Whoever has been to Malindi - personally I have been on a government mission - has been able to appreciate what it has been and what is still that base, in part unfortunately unused, compared to the current conditions of global competition. Malindi is not only a place where Italians have found an ideal seaside resort, but it is above all - and we must remember - the place where this Italian base is placed abroad so significant today, thanks to this Agreement, for cooperation with the countries of the European Union and with some African countries. So I have already announced that our vote will certainly be in favour. The second consideration I would like to make is of a different kind and concerns more generally the legislative activity of the Senate and Parliament in this parliamentary term. As the present Calderoli, who has a long experience, will remember, usually the international ratifications of agreements and treaties passed in second order. In this case, ratification is about a 2016 Agreement, but in this House we have ratified agreements of five, ten or fifteen years ago. Why this? This case concerns a recent agreement, but in many other cases it has been agreements that have been made far behind in time. This is because international agreements in our legislation pass by the Commissions and then into the assemblies of the two branches of Parliament, unlike other countries where they are ratified by the Government, which sometimes subscribes to them with the help of some specialised parliamentary committee dedicated to this matter. In our case they follow a very long process, like any legislative measure: Senate-Aula Senate Commission, Chamber-Aula Chamber Commission, usually without change. Why are we sowing so many in this legislature, unlike the others? Perhaps, if it continues like this, we will be able to fill the delay in some cases over a decade. How many times those who represented our country abroad have heard us say: we have ratified the agreement, while you have been ratifying it for ten years! In fact, there are cases where other countries have ratified the agreements, because perhaps they do not have parliamentary competence and, in any case, without foreseeing such a cumbersome process, and we are behind and on many occasions we are reminded of this delay. Why do we manage to do this in this parliamentary term by filling a delay? Certainly for the efficiency of the Undersecretary, but more likely because this legislature is empty of more important legislative arguments. We know that today is an extraordinary and special day, on which we are passing legislative measures, some of which are significant, but we usually have difficulties even just identifying the agenda on which we can work, in the sense that there are no significant measures to be brought to the attention of Parliament. That is why there are so many issues, such as the ratification of the international treaties, and for the same reason we are able to make up for a decade-long delay. That is why very often we also focus on parliamentary motions, that is to say we fill the legislative vacuum of the current government. Unfortunately, this is what is also evident in the ratification of the international treaty when we examine it. At least that is what this parliamentary term is for: to fill the ultra-ten-year delay in ratifying the international treaties. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u157	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u158	Mr President, there is nothing to be said about the agreement just now. As far as the activities of this majority and the Government are concerned, however, I think that the reason why we can also decide on the Treaties is simply because we are sitting more hours in the Chamber and we are willing not to set any time limits for the work of this House. We vote on the Treaties as we vote on the most important measures: today is a demonstration of this. So I am proud to be part of this majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u159	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u162	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, this ratification may seem secondary, but it is not. I would like to recall, in addition to the report by the rapporteur, where this Agreement is inserted, signed in October 2016 in Trento, for the impulse of the Renzi Government and the work carried out by the then Minister of Education, University and Research Giannini and then by the Minister of Fedeli who committed themselves to the topic of space research. In Trento was called the first international forum on space research; the then president of the ASI Battiston emphasized how space research is the place where space cooperation and scientific cooperation can represent an opportunity not only for sustainable development for our country, but also for development cooperation in other countries. The experience of excellence of the Luigi Broglio centre is part of this work. It is an Italian excellence, which has undergone variations. He needed an update, because that center served until 1988 for the launch of the satellites, then he suffered some variations and today he does something else. A new legal framework was needed, which was created in October 2016. Today that center, both in the territorial segment, and in the offshore segment, of the marine platforms, certainly constitutes an opportunity to make scientific cooperation, to increase our ability in the space research, for the detection and the traceability of the satellites, in an area like the equatorial one, that lends itself well and it is functional to operations of this kind; but it is also an opportunity to take advantage of the new window of opportunity that opens in the Horn of Africa, of collaboration and cooperation with those Countries. In this Agreement an important training component is envisaged not only for Kenyans, but also for engineers, technicians, operators and researchers in the field of scientific research and space cooperation, which not only represents an investment for that territory, but also an opportunity to strengthen the cooperation of Italy and the presence of Italy in the countries of the Horn of Africa. Ours, therefore, can only be a positive judgment on an Italian excellence that is updated and on the ability of our technicians to be at the forefront. I hope that the positive experience of the Renzi Government and the Battiston Presidency at the ASI can see the witness being carried forward, so ours can only be a vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u165	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group welcomes the ratification of this Agreement, considering the contribution that the only Italian space centre abroad makes to our research in aerospace and technology as essential. The Luigi Broglio Space Centre in Malindi was established in 1964 and is managed by the Italian Space Agency (ASI); important pole of excellence, as has been said and repeated several times, of our country's technology, represents for its location on the coast of the Indian Ocean an optimal site for the launch and control of satellites and for all scientific research and data collection activities. The operation of the base is governed by an intergovernmental agreement signed by the two countries in 1955 and renewed until 31 October 2016. The new agreement, on the other hand, has as its final objective to make the base of Malindi, but more generally than all Kenya, the fulcrum of a space cooperation extended to all the countries of the Horn of Africa and East Africa, with important strategic repercussions of scientific, technological and programmatic character. The center consists of two segments: the first is the marine one, represented by the ocean launch platform, and the second is the terrestrial one, represented by the center dedicated to the reception of data. The areas around which the Centre's activities are carried out, exclusively for peaceful use (it should be stressed), are those of space science and technology, Earth observation, support for video surveillance services, space communications, telemedicine, satellite data acquisition, research into the physics of the atmosphere, launch and control of satellites and remote sensing. The management of the base is entrusted to a director appointed by the Italian Government through the ASI, supported by a Kenyan Deputy Director. The Italian Government is entrusted with the task of launching training programmes for Kenyan citizens, promoting development projects in the area, supporting the operational costs of operating the structure, contributing to the operating costs related to the regional centre for Earth observation and, last but not least, paying Kenya half of the profits deriving from contracts with third parties. On the other hand, the Kenyan Government is entrusted with the task of ensuring, of course from the point of view of safety, efficient operation of the base, protection of goods and people, providing authorisation for the launch of satellites and suborbital platforms, identifying development projects to be carried out in the Malindi area. The implementation protocols therefore aim to regulate the establishment of a regional center for Earth observation, to support the Kenyan National Space Agency, to promote and support research in the field of telemedicine, to create collaboration in the field of Earth observation, using data of scientific space missions, and to ensure, by the ASI, education and training activities of Kenyan students and technical staff in the Italian institutions specialised in space engineering and technology, Earth observation, politics, telemedicine and telecommunications sciences. The draft law of ratification - I am beginning to conclude - provides that for the burdens deriving from this measure - 800,000 euros per year - the ordinary budget of the Italian Space Agency should be provided and without any new or increased burden on the State budget. Since 2016 the agreement between two states, relating to the management of the base, must obviously be renewed, therefore the provision aims to provide a regulatory framework as clear as possible regarding the management of the activities carried out within the Luigi Broglio Space Centre, in view of the friendship relations between Italy and Kenya. It is considered necessary to start ratification of both the agreement and its implementing protocols in order to regulate, and also to protect, rights and duties incumbent on our country and the Democratic Republic of Kenya. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u168	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the renewal of the Agreement crowns a negotiation led by the Farnesina in agreement with ASI, MIUR, Ministry of Defence also other Dicasteries, as has already been mentioned, and ensures the continuation of the activity of the Centre that over the years has been the basis of the launch of numerous satellites and carries out today activities of assistance to space missions and the acquisition of satellite data. Even if in Italy the work of this structure is little known, it is fundamental to our system Country not only for research purposes, but also to include Italy in what is called space economy, that is, the opening of space programs to private, multinational but also to future, so called, "tourists of space," a sector that is constantly rising. The Italian base of the ASI located in Malindi in Kenya, has recently successfully supported, for example, the launch of the Falcon 9 SpaceX, accompanying in orbit the NASA Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS). This is obviously an element of great novelty and avant-garde. The importance of this Italian garrison of research and sharing worldwide is also an example of international cooperation in the field of technological support to African countries. This has a double value in the field of foreign affairs. In fact, if in the early years the role of the Republic of Kenya was that of observer and assistant, over the decades it has reached the formation of a real school of local technicians and scientists, the interchange between universities and the growth of the Kenyan space sector, which has led to the creation of the first nanosatellite, created precisely in Nairobi thanks to the supervision proper of Italian scientists and technicians. For these reasons we therefore believe that the sums allocated to the strengthening of the Luigi Broglio space centre in Kenya are important and fundamental for the entire Italian research and for the strengthening of cooperation with that country; therefore this agreement is well received. My group will vote very strongly in favour of this agreement, hoping that it will allow birth - why not? - of other Luigi Broglio Italians and maybe Kenyans. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u169	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u170	The next item is the debate on the resolution adopted by the 9th Standing Committee on Agriculture and Food Production at its meeting on 16 April 2019 on the invasion of the Asian marble wire (Halyomorpha halys) (Doc. XXIV, No 5. The report has already been printed and distributed. He asked to speak, to supplement the written report, Senator Vallardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report accompanies the resolution which commits the Government on two points, at the end of the deal on the invasion of the Asian marble wire (Halyomorpha halys). The Agriculture Commission aims to offer the Government and Parliament an in-depth analysis of the problems related to the invasion of the Asian marble bug, a particularly infesting insect from China, Japan, Taiwan and Korea, which in recent years has affected many regions of our country, especially in northern Italy, but which is gradually spreading also in Central Italy and in many other regions of our country. The Asian bug is a harmful insect to plants, fruits and seeds and is native to East Asia. In the mid-nineties of the last century it was found in the USA and since the second millennium also in Europe. Recent reports also come from South America (Chile) and other countries' entry points, such as New Zealand and Australia. In the newly introduced areas the species has spread with a rapidity that really attracts attention, causing substantial damage to all sectors of agriculture. Action to combat on a global scale is to date mainly focused on the use of chemicals, with the use of active substances on a wide spectrum, which have proved to be fundamentally ineffective; these products have as a result serious repercussions on the production systems affected by the bug. For these reasons alternative tools and methods of control are being sought, bearing in mind that the potential for development of this bug makes every action of struggle very complex. The Asian bug is in fact a polyphagus insect (onnivorous, that is eats of everything), that manages to develop both on herbaceous plants, annual and multiannual, ortive and cereals, as well as on orchards and arboreal and shrub plants, nourishing of fruits of all kinds. The insect is also an excellent adult flyer and a good walker in the juvenile stadiums, so it moves everywhere, making continuous movements between cultivated areas and spontaneous vegetation. The Minister of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism Hundreds himself, in response to a specific question in the Assembly on 18 October 2018, confirmed these indications, stating that the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy (Crea) had been identified as a support institution for the deepening of the scientific aspects of the fight against insects. In addition, as regards the use of natural antagonists from the territory of origin of the bug, the minister of agricultural policies food, forestry and tourism Centinario had already authorized to introduce, under quarantine conditions and for study only, the species considered most effective at world level, the so-called samurai wasp (Trissolcus japonicus), to conduct the necessary studies, in particular on the environmental impact in the national agrosystems, while the same Crea continued the research on all natural antagonists of the bug active on the national territory. On that occasion the Minister explained that the introduction in Italy of the wasp samurai and other non-autoctonous insects could take place only for reasons of study, being there a precise prohibition to introduce - this is the issue that we treat today - on the national territory species or non-autoctonous populations (the so-called habitat directive). In order to deepen the issue, between November and December 2018, the 9th Commission has therefore launched a series of hearings in the context of the deal assigned, interrogating the competent scientific bodies, including the aforementioned Agricultural Research Council, the Agrion Foundation and the National Plant Health Service. All audit subjects, and in particular the Crea, have unanimously confirmed the substantial ineffectiveness in the control of the Asian marbled bug of the use of chemicals and alternative systems such as nets or insect traps placed on the crops. The strategy considered most effective, after the results of the studies and experiments carried out, has therefore been identified in the classical biological struggle interventions, using natural antagonists of the Asian marble bug from its origin area, then the Far East, in particular China. In fact, as mentioned above, the autochthonous antagonists already present in Italy have not proved able to significantly counter this insect. The Crea and the other scientific bodies have therefore highlighted the good containment capabilities of the Asian bug demonstrated in particular by the aforementioned wasp samurai. Despite the name, this insect of the order of hymenopterans, little more than a millimeter, has nothing to do with the real wasps and has no particular contraindications (otherwise some varieties have already been spotted in our country). It is able to contain in a strong way the diffusion of the bug, going to parasitize its eggs: in China it succeeds to reach percentages of parasitization greater than 70-80 percent on the eggs of the Asian bug. Despite the presence of positive results in the laboratory, Crea cannot carry out the necessary experiments in the field because of the already mentioned prohibition of introduction of non-automated species contained in the habitat directive, which in Italy, unlike other European countries, has been transposed in excessively rigid terms, thus depriving our country of one of the most important instruments of contrast to the spread of invasive exotic species, which is based precisely on the use of natural antagonists. All the auditors in the 9th Commission therefore agreed on the need to eliminate this prohibition by amending Article 12 of the Regulation, as provided for in Decree of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997, recalling that this question had already been raised for many years and that the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea had already prepared for this purpose a scheme of regulations (in the form of a decree of the President of the Republic), still pending final approval. The Commission then further examined the subject through a specific question addressed to the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in order to know the state of progress of the process of approval of the aforementioned decree of amendment. In the session of the 9th Commission of 29 November 2018 it emerged that the draft decree had acquired the opinions of the Permanent Conference for relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano (on 10 May 2018) and the Council of State (on 20 September 2018) and were therefore concluding the last technical checks for the final resolution of the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, the urgency of the amendment of the Habitats Directive has been reported by several parties, including in relation to other issues, for example in the cognitive survey concluded on 21 February 2019 in the Chamber of Deputies on the emergency linked to the spread of Xylella annoying, to allow biological control as a way of contrasting the spread of insects vectors of the bacterium. Finally, on 4 April 2019 the Council of Ministers finally approved the decree of the President of the Republic amending Article 12 of the Regulation provided for in decree of the President of the Republic n. 357 of 1997, thus authorising also in Italy, in the presence of justified reasons of public interest, derogations from the prohibition of the introduction of non-native species or populations, on the basis of studies that show the absence of adverse effects on the environment, and of appropriate criteria and without prejudice to the necessary controls. It should be noted, however, that the new Article 12 provides for a particularly complex and complex procedure for the concrete start of biological control interventions, first having to adopt, within six months of the entry into force of the amending regulation, a decree of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea that sets the criteria for the release into nature of the species and populations not native. On the basis of these criteria, in response to a specific request from the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces or the managing bodies of the national protected areas, the Ministry may then authorise the placing, after an evaluation of a specific study excluding any risk to the conservation of natural species and habitats. This procedure, which rightly aims to prevent any possible negative effects arising from the introduction of non-autoctonous organisms into the environment, risks, however, exceedingly lengthening the time for the practical initiation of experiments in the field of the samurai wasp, which therefore could not take its action to contrast to the Asian bug in the current agricultural season - here is the problem - with serious damage to the crops affected by this scourge. For these reasons, the Agriculture Commission considered it appropriate to formulate this resolution in order to signal to the Government the need, without prejudice to all necessary controls, to proceed swiftly with the implementation process of the new provision. The resolution, unanimously approved by the Commission at its meeting on 16 April 2019 and which is now subject to the examination of this Assembly, therefore commits the Government to give the highest priority to the adoption of the ministerial decree provided for in the new article establishing the criteria for the placing of species and populations not native to Italy The appeal I make, both to the Ministry of the Environment and to the Government, is to make sure that what happened two hundred years before Christ did not happen, that is, while we were discussing in Rome, Sagunto fell. At that time there were elephants, who certainly created more damage than bugs, but I assure you that for those who tried them, especially for farmers in this country, bugs, even if they are not grasshoppers, are certainly a scourge of God. I therefore call for the adoption of this resolution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u172	I declare the debate open. I would remind you that any agenda on this document may be submitted before the end of the debate. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u173	Mr President, the resolution we are debating addresses an anomalous but also very significant, very serious and strange problem: we have even come to discuss in the Senate the Asian bug. I would like to thank President Vallardi for the work he has done in the Commission, which was very much in-depth during the hearing. The impact on fruit and herbaceous crops is devastating in some cases and the resulting damage is huge. The rapporteur's presentation just now bears witness to this. Only man's intervention can remedy this, and that's why we're here. This is not the first time that an antagonist bug has been introduced to combat a harmful bug. The experience lived, among other things with almost positive results, to fight the cynipid of the chestnut in this country, which caused serious damage in some areas, is proof of this. Also for the bug, therefore, the use of the introduction of another insect is the solution identified and allowed thanks to the decree of April this year. This is what the resolution proposes by activating a willingness and action on the part of the Government to take this initiative. Addressing this issue, however, allows a reflection on the problem of the impact of alloctonous and indigenous wildlife in our country. With the resolution we are about to adopt, we show that man's thoughtful intervention on nature is considered necessary, in this case also on the animal world. Rationality, in some cases, must necessarily overcome feelings. Bedbugs are in fact animals like all the others, from small to larger ones, which create as many problems and damage, not only to crops, but also to farms. I want to remember that in this country - it doesn't seem to have anything to do with it, but in reality it has to do with it - there is a wolf problem, which mustn't be tackled by keeping its head under the sand, because sooner or later a few women will have to pull it out. [[Brusio]] Excuse me, President, but it is difficult to speak like this: probably the bugs are quieter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u174	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u175	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Even normal human activities can have problems: we remember the thousands of road accidents, some of which are fatal, caused precisely by wildlife. The day before yesterday, little has been said about it, at the airport of Genoa a plane, in phase of take-off, has had to withdraw because of the seagulls that have ended up in the engine. The plane managed to stop: a little further on there was the sea, since the airport of Genoa ends right next to the sea. It would have to be said: "Poor seagulls, finished in the blender" but it is also said: Poor players from our female water polo team who, together with others, were on the plane at that time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Environmental changes result in faunal changes. The result is the need to tackle the unfaunistic imbalances with interventions, from today's one on the bugs, to tomorrow's one maybe on the grasshoppers, on the graffiti in general, on the transfers, on the crows, on the nourishes and so on: the list unfortunately is long. There is the negative example of the Piedmont Region where, due to a forgetfulness - and I hope it is a forgetfulness or an inability, otherwise it would be serious - of the regional junta of Chiamparino, fortunately sent home by the Piedmontese, in these weeks great problems are being created to the Piedmontese viticulture and we know how important this activity for that Region is. The fact that neither the venatory calendar nor the withdrawal plan has deliberated, today allows for a few weeks the undisturbed action of the roe deer, which is too present in those areas. Long live the roe deer! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Who's gonna pay for all the huge damage? I say this to the Piedmontese administrators: the Chiamparino junta will certainly not pay them and the supporters of crazy animalist extremism that also lead to this type of disaster will continue to pay them. FARAONE (PD). Long live the wolf! BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo! In this country there are resolutions such as the one we are discussing, but it is also urgent to amend a law of 1992, No. 157 on the protection of wildlife, which must become a law for the management of wildlife. The environment has changed since 1992: the law has to be adapted in this country, where the concentration of wildlife is among the highest in Europe. I hope that this reflection - which, in any case, from the attempts to interrupt this speech, I believe I have understood that an effect has already provoked it - can serve as a provocation to finally take note of the reality on the part of everyone, even of some colleagues who are in this House and not only and who have more important responsibilities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Perosino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u176	Senator Pharaoh, you are truly transversal and multipurpose, because on any subject you find something to comment on. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu.]] Senator Battistoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u177	Mr President, important members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard in Mr Vallardi's report, the problem of the Asian bug is now invading our territory. It has been reported for years and today's measure seeks to find a way to resolve the problem. As early as December 2015, the National Plant Health Committee raised the alarm and called for measures on this issue. This insect is alloctonous and is capable of causing considerable damage to agricultural crops, as is unfortunately being recorded. Last but not least, Sunday evening news has dedicated ample space to the damage done to the fruit crops of Emilia Romagna, but not only there: throughout Northern Italy and many outbreaks were also found in Tuscany. So much so that, from 2008 to 2013, the Asian bug was included on the alert list of the Euro-Mediterranean Organisation for Plant Protection, because of the high level of damage detected in the countries where it was accidentally introduced. Characteristics of this insect are the high adaptability to different climates, including ours, the nourishment of mature fruits, not ripe, green jets and even young barks, but, above all, the remarkable reproductive capacity. In particular, in our territories, fortunately, there has been a lower fecundity, equal to twice a year, contrary to that of the territories of origin, where the reproduction takes place about six times a year, although always able, however, to have millions of insects not appreciated in a short time. To stop the damage that the marbled bug causes to our cultures, we have tried to identify appropriate remedies, understanding how difficult it is to stop with the nets antisect or with the nets treated with insecticides or pesticides. Moreover, we, like Forza Italia, always hope for the biological struggle and well made Senator Bruzzone to remember the successes achieved with the antagonist of the chestnut cynipid, with the Torymus, which was then produced in large quantities in Italy and, in fact, has eradicated this long-standing problem. I also want to thank the work done by Crea, as already pointed out for all the experiments done at national level, trying to identify and find the antagonist, first through native insects and then through alloctonous insects. Scientists, in this case, have identified the so-called samurai wasp as the main antagonist. Hence the problem of overcoming the ban on the introduction into national territory of non-native species and populations. In accordance with Article 12 of the Regulation of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997, as amended by the decree of the President of the Republic No 120 of 12 March 2003, by which Italy has transposed the Habitats Directive, we have unfortunately had an even stronger effect than the directive, prohibiting the introduction of non-autonomous species for biological control. Therefore, after examining the various possible alternatives and after numerous comparisons in the Agriculture Commission with multiple hearings, we unanimously voted this resolution on 16 April. I believe that we should start from here, with this unity, in the work that we have found in the Commission, thanks also to the willingness of President Vallardi, and starting from this issue we should also go to deal with old problems that Senator Bruzzone did well to mention. We must not hide behind one finger: this is one of the many problems, but we must also tackle the problems of wildlife and we must tackle the problems of climate change, because our farmers, unfortunately, are severely penalized by these adversities and only with a unity of intent in this area will we be able to give decisive answers to our farmers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u178	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 4 April 1997 the Council of Ministers finally adopted a regulation, to be adopted by decree of the President of the Republic, amending the rules on the conservation of natural and semi-natural habitats, as well as the flora and fauna, as provided for in Decree of the President of the Republic of 8 September 1997, No 357. A decree, the latter, that will affect - from the normative point of view - also in the fight against the so-called Asian marble bug. The first report in Italy of this two-inch brown-grey insect dates back to 2012, as my colleague Vallardi, in Emilia-Romagna, said. Originally from the Far East and recently introduced in Italy, over three or four years it has caused considerable damage to fruit, vegetable and cereal crops. In fact, the sucking bites practiced by adults and juvenile stages on vegetative organs and fruits cause the appearance of yellowings, developmental arrests, deformations and necrosis. The greatest damage is reported on some varieties of pear and on nashi (Japanese pear), on nectarines and cherries and various varieties of apples. In some core areas, attacks result in high levels of bedbug even in hazelnuts. In the horticultural field, the damage mainly affects the cultivation of peppers, while among the extensive crops the greatest damage is recorded on the soy and the maize of second harvest. In the aforementioned sectors, in some cases, economic losses are very serious, up to 80% of the harvest and sometimes even 100%. Having no specific natural limiters on our continent, this bug is spreading rapidly in new areas, through a progressive increase. We have news that even houses are being invaded. The direct control with insecticides for the protection of crops is not easy, both because not all active substances are effective, and because of the need to respect the safety measures of the formulations used and, finally, because of the high mobility of these small adult insects. Moving quickly between natural environments, including forest and spontaneous plants and agricultural crops, the bug manages to escape part of the insecticide interventions, and then recolonize the treated crops again. It is, therefore, a particularly annoying and harmful insect, as well as for agricultural crops, also for vegetable gardens and family orchards. But there is a formidable enemy: the wasp samurai. In April, the Senate Agriculture Commission unanimously approved a resolution which commits the Government to give the highest priority in the adoption of a ministerial decree for the placing in Italy of non-native species and populations of alien insect antagonists. And, in the text, it is recommended, in particular, to speed up as much as possible the other phases of the authorisation process, also in view of the extensive experimentation already carried out on the wasp samurai. Originally from East Asia, but now present in Europe and America, also due to climatic variations, the samurai wasp - so named for Japanese origin and aggressiveness worthy of the legendary warriors of the Levant Sun - defeats the opponent at the root, depositing the eggs directly in those of the bug and killing them as soon as the larvae develop. The Asian bug is only the last of the many alien species that have taken residence in our country and devastated the environment, from Xylella to ladybug harlequin. If the alloctona wasp does not find natural predators, it could end up extinguishing not only the bugs, but also other insects, triggering a sort of domino effect in the life cycle: a chain reaction on the ecosystem. It is therefore necessary to avoid alien species becoming invasive when, that is, in the territories in which it was introduced, it rapidly expands (compared to the times of natural evolution), creating tangible impacts on other species and ecosystems. The G1 agenda, which I presented, has precisely this purpose: to have the Government assess, in compliance with the constraints arising from the Community order and with particular reference to the action of contrast to the Asian marbled bug through the so-called samurai wasp as a natural antagonist, the forecast of a specific monitoring action on an annual basis in order to ensure periodic information on the conditions of insertion of the samurai wasp into the national territory and a control of the phytopathological emergency state, avoiding any harmful effects to natural habitats, flora and fauna. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u180	The debate is closed. I note that the text of the resolution of the 9th Permanent Commission has been presented with the G1 agenda, signed by Senator Abbot and other senators, whose text is being distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u181	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture for their work. There has been a positive climate right from the start. They were all sympathetic to the need and urgency for the Habitats Directive to be completed as soon as possible. (17.31) (Following Mr Vallardi, rapporteur). I would also like to extend my invitation and my thanks to the Undersecretary, Mr Gava, who has come to the Commission and together we have prepared this resolution. I conclude my speech with a heartfelt appeal to Minister Costa to see the urgency and the need to be able to transpose the habitat directive as soon as possible, to free the Samurai wasp which, as the Agricultural Research Council and the analysis of the agricultural economy has already verified, is absolutely compatible with our ecosystem. There is great expectation on the part of all the farmers of this country, who see their crops destroyed, and also of all the citizens of the country, who see their homes invaded by this very harmful insect. I would therefore like to make a heartfelt appeal that Minister Costa should take a look at the urgency and the need for us to come to the conclusion of this legislative process. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u182	I call on the representative of the Government to speak on the resolution already adopted by the 9th Permanent Commission and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u183	Mr President, the Government's opinion on the G1 agenda is in favour of rewording: I propose to replace the words 'to provide for a specific monitoring action' by the words 'to assess the appropriateness of a specific monitoring action'.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u184	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u187	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that in recent times - and this was also the meaning of the transposition of the Habitat Directive - globalisation, international trade, the lack of prudence and even gross errors made in putting a number of alien species into our system, as well as climate change, we are increasingly faced with emergencies. In this case we are talking about the Asian bug, but we could unfortunately mention not only Xylella, but also many other insects that are producing very serious situations for our agriculture. With reference to the past, Mr Bruzzone is always very passionate, but we could mention what happened with the introduction, for example, of wild boars not native to the hunting grounds or we could talk about what happened in the sports ponds with the introduction of torpedo fish. There have been, therefore, human errors and at the same time, because of globalization and international trade, the world has changed. Climate change has also occurred, because at other times, with other temperatures, these types of insects would not have had the chance to survive. The Commission, in the context of the given affair and with the hearings, has certainly carried out an in-depth work, which I have been able to follow and through which I have been able to document myself, but I invite everyone to very careful and for a simple reason. The motion for a resolution before us today contains two commitments for the Government. First of all, the Commission is asked to speed up the adoption of the Ministerial Decree provided for in the new Article 12 of the Regulation provided for in the Decree of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997, which amended the Directive. It is not by chance, as we have transposed Directive No 43 of 1992, although it is said here that it was a somewhat rigid way, because we were well aware, then, of the great problem we had in our country, which has a very important biodiversity to preserve, also and especially agricultural. Therefore, the rigidity in imposing the absolute ban, which can be waived only for reasons of emergency, to enter plant and animal species allocton had and has its reasons. The resolution also calls for as much speed as possible of the other stages of the authorization procedure for the introduction of the samurai wasp, since it is considered, at least at the place of origin of the Asian marble bug, the predator and the natural antagonist. Moreover, here I have listened to some speeches in which a natural predator like the wolf is always the object of bad attention and bad attention, yet the wolf is the natural predator for wild boars, roe deer and other species. Then, at the head of the pyramid of predators there is the human species and I would not want that, continuing like this, we had some strange intention on natural predators. Why do I invite caution? I also say this to the rapporteur and to President Vallardi: the risk is to introduce another species in our ecosystem, such as the wasp samurai, without the necessary care. We must be careful and not speed up, because we risk producing even more damage and have already had past experiences of lightness, even if not with specific reference to the wasp. Therefore, knowing perfectly well that there is an emergency and that it is a great emergency, as we all know perfectly well, my invitation is to be very cautious and to ask even more, even in terms of time, with many possibilities of verification and with all the support from the scientific point of view to avoid producing worse damage than those that are currently with the bug. I would like to repeat once again that an entry which is not so carefully and scientifically verified could cause very serious damage to agricultural biodiversity. Therefore - and I address the Secretary of State - the preliminary study of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea must not at all be diminished neither of importance, nor of further scientific and experimental insights, all necessary to give us certainty and safety, because otherwise, I repeat, the risk is very high. The damage would be paid for by agricultural biodiversity and we may have other problems with other native animal species. I repeat this again: in the past, insertings not adequately supported by scientific elements have produced disasters. For all these reasons, our vote will not be against, but abstaining, in order to make a further call for prudence and weighting: certain times, but not hasty procedures, in the interests of preserving our natural heritage, our ecosystem and agricultural biodiversity. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u190	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and members of the Government, in my speech I will try not to dwell too much on the reasons, the iter and the conclusions of this resolution, which saw a unanimous vote in the Commission, because much has already been said by my previous colleagues and the rapporteur. On the other hand, I would like to focus on some considerations and reflections that I would like to share with my fellow senators. Let us start by pointing out that our agriculture has been subjected to this type of scourge for years. In the collective imagination it may seem little when you hear about bugs, cynicides or any other insect, not giving the right weight instead to the economic, financial and social consequences that these insects can often cause. Today we are talking about Asian bugs, an insect that has been attacking our fruit producers for years before in the North-East, and now it is spreading also in other areas and affects other crops. We talked about Xylella, a few days ago, on the occasion of the bill on agricultural revival, which is destroying thousands of olive trees in Salento. And there are so many other emergencies still in place that are hitting or hitting important sectors. How can we not think, for example, of the many destroyed chestnut groves, which have brought to their knees entire mountain areas where it is already difficult to make agriculture? Or how not to think about the production of pine nuts, practically zeroed? And much more. In the light of the foregoing, it should be recalled that all of this stems, as highlighted in the report to the measure, from the strict application of European Directive No 43 of 1992, transposed by the aforementioned decree of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997. An application so rigid that it does not allow our country to be able to implement a system of natural defense against attacks of insects or organisms from other countries. An application, in our opinion, the result of an ideological attitude on how to govern the environment, which has proved disastrous also in other areas and sectors. I am referring, for example, to wildlife, which is causing countless damage to agricultural production and which is disrupting the natural balance of many places. This too has prevailed and a demagogic attitude is prevailing, the son of a wrong environmentalism that has not been able to effectively integrate man and the environment, with harmful results visible to all, unfortunately. The strict application of this directive, therefore, has not enabled us to implement an effective defence of our productions against attacks of various kinds. I am using these two precise terms, defense and attacks, not by chance, but to emphasize how much this can have a reading key other than randomness, in a broader view of the problem. Think, for example, how these insects, causing enormous damage to our production system, have caused losses for millions of euros and enormous environmental damage, all to the benefit of other economic systems and other countries our competitors in agricultural production. We must reflect on the possibility that not only globalization, therefore a greater shift of goods from one country to another, from countries even far away and belonging to completely different climatic zones, or climate change can be the only cause of these damages. Is it possible - I ask myself and I ask you - that this is not just random? I do not have a precise answer, but I also asked this question during the hearing in the Commission of CREA's executives, who answered us that they are thinking about it. I believe that a reflection on the subject needs to be made. Too many interests are a game in this game that sees our agri-food system at the center of economic attacks by a competition, sometimes even unfair, that tends to cancel the specificity and excellence of many of our products. The economic war is fought in many ways; so let us raise our level of attention. In conclusion, let us welcome this resolution which calls on the Government to speed up the application of the new Article 12 and to authorize the use of antagonistic insects to combat the scourge of the bug, because the national interest - of this too - must be defended by every means and we cannot be restrained either by bureaucracy or by demagogy. For all these reasons I announce the vote in favour of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u193	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, today - as has already been pointed out by my fellow Members - is a day for those who are dealing with agricultural issues and who are dealing with the territory, which is very important. Specifically, we have come to this resolution in light of the enormous damage that, at least in 2017, the bug has caused in our country, in some areas of which some productions have seen more than 60 percent of destroyed production, with companies put on the pavement. I only remember, as a reminder, that the bug landed heavily in the United States in 2010, although its first appearance was at the beginning of this century. In 2010 there was the first explosion of harmful presence: in that year this parasite caused more than 40 million dollars of damage in the two states where its presence was found, and then it reached hundreds of millions of dollars of damage in the years to follow. These numbers help us to understand why there is a strong concern. Among other things, in recent days, the technicians of the agricultural organizations have raised the alarm, because while due to adverse climatic conditions in 2018 there has been little damage, this year the ideal conditions are being recreated because you risk to return to the situation of 2017. So it is a situation that objectively requires a high level of attention. Why is this parasite so dangerous? Because unlike ordinary European bedbugs, it has a prolificity of tens of times higher, that is, it ovidepone from 100 to 500 eggs for every kind and, unlike European bedbugs, it reaches to make two and in some areas of the territory even three generations. So try multiplying a bug by 500, then 500 by 500, and then another 500, and you'll realize what we're talking about in terms of potential parasite colonization. From the latest studies carried out (the CRA has still sent us documentation these days) it would result that the only alternative to the chemical struggle for this parasite is the Trissolcus japonicus, which, beyond the colored name that has been given to him by samurai vespa, is a hymenopteran of a few millimetres of length. Since he kills the larvae of the Asian bug, however, he has become a samurai, which has much more effect in the collective imagination. 17.48 (Taricco follow-up). It is a hymenopteran that ovidepones in the larvae of the Asian bug, therefore parasitizes and substantially blocks its development. The importance of this intervention of biological control - let us define it in these terms - is that in some areas of the territory, where there have been such significant damage - as I said before, 50-60 percent - three pesticides have been produced, however with little effect, but with a devastating environmental impact from the point of view of the chemical spread on the territory. So this is objectively an emergency. What is the ratio of the resolution that we are presenting today? It contains two issues. Firstly, the legislation currently in force, the decree of the President of the Republic n. 357 of 1997, is Italy's transposition of the 1992 Habitats Directive. In 1992 and 1997 there was no - or very marginal - problem of exotic parasites on our territory, simply because they were not there: we began to have them at the beginning of this century. The problem mentioned before Dryocosmus, the galligen cinipide of chestnut, which devastated the Italian chestnut growing, was defeated with the introduction of the Torymus sinensis, which parasited that insect and solved the issue. Since then the need to amend Article 12 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997 has been triggered precisely in order to foresee, in the light of the changed external conditions, the possibility of reacting to them. When a parasite enters the national territory that has no natural antagonists here, it must be possible to re-introduce its natural antagonists in order to recreate a biological balance that here otherwise would not exist; that parasite, without having antagonists, can spread creating devastating damage. The process of amending the decree of the President of the Republic that we are talking about began in 2015, with a text that the then Minister of the Environment sent to all the Regions to open a reflection on how to intervene to resolve this problem. At the end of 2018 the Regions gave a favourable opinion on the draft amendment of the decree of the President of the Republic and in March 2018 the decree of the President of the Republic was provisionally approved by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which provided for a very strict procedure. Here too I would like to debunk some myths: we are not talking about authorising the introduction of the antagonist of the bug; we are talking about a ministerial decree that must be issued by the Ministry of the Environment, which defines the criteria, conditions and rules, and which includes, among other things, by law, the intervention of the ISPRA at all stages of the process, in the light of which the Regions will be able to apply for a single entry of any type of insect or animal (which, as said, will be evaluated by the ISPRA, which will say if there are conditions of danger for the natural balance). Only with a very cautious procedure may a particular insect be allowed to enter. With this resolution we ask that the Ministry approve these criteria as quickly as possible, which does not mean authorising the introduction of the antagonist of the bug, but only authorising the procedure that some Regions will require from ISPRA to start the path to basically verify if it is possible to introduce this bug. So there are guarantees and safeguards and there will be so many. We ask this because, in fact, as I said before, in March 2017 the provisional draft of the decree was sent to the Regions, in May last year the Regions gave a favourable opinion and unfortunately only in November the Council of State gave a favourable opinion on this measure, which was finally approved on 4 April 2019 by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. We ask that the Ministry of the Environment issue as quickly as possible the ministerial decree defining the procedures and criteria by which the Regions will be able to submit their applications. With regard to Trissolcus, which should block the expansion of Halyomorpha halys, there are now studies of five or six years. On this, even the last study of the Crea tells us that from the environmental point of view there are no problems, that it could be resolving and that it must be done as quickly as possible. That is precisely why, as regards us, as a Democratic Party we will vote in favour of the resolution and abstain on the agenda precisely because all the cautionary requests for the agenda are provided for in the law and draft decrees that have been prepared. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u196	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, when we talk about this subject, namely the Asian marble wire, we are not talking about a simple insect but about a very serious scourge for national agriculture. We know that it is native, as has been said earlier, to the Far East, but it can cause serious damage to more than 300 species of plants. In China it caused damage for more than a billion dollars, then it spread to Taiwan, Japan and South Korea to reach the United States in 1998, where it was readily identified, but, as colleagues said before, it devastated thousands of hectares of orchards. The bug appeared in Europe in 2004. In Italy it was found in 2012 just outside Modena. A year later it had already hit entire farms, entire lands and territories of Piedmont, Lombardy, Veneto and Friuli, where it practically destroyed 40% of the crops over time; it went from soy, to fruit, to grapes. Season after season, the situation has systematically and inexorably worsened. The bite of the bud takes place in the development phase of the fruit, creates dimples and necrotic areas on the surface; if it happens instead in the ripening phase it creates malformations that make the fruit deprecated first and not marketable. It is a danger because it puts at risk the cultivations of pears and kiwis that represent for our country top-of-the-line crops at the level of the world market too. Italy is the first country in the world for the cultivation of kiwis and the third producer of pears after China and the United States according to data that were sent by the center fruit and vegetable services. Coldiretti has already quantified the damage of the bug in a billion euros, which is not a small thing. The situation in Piedmont is particularly serious today, where the insect is able to attack, among other things, an important culture such as that of the core, so precious for the local economy. Already in 2017, despite the application of several insecticide treatments, the high presence of Asian bugs in some Italian regions has strongly compromised the quality of the Corilicola production. In order to cope with this attack on agricultural crops, and in particular as I said before for the core, the Asian Cimice Observatory was established in Piedmont at the beginning of 2018 that has detected an increase in the reports of moria of both recently planted corileti, that is those ranging from one to four years, and in the older plants from six to eight years, that have proved very, very high. That is why we are calling on Parliament today to take rapid action and to ensure that the country is in a position to repair it. As has been confirmed during the hearings in the Committee on Agriculture, the use of pesticides, which is certainly not without consequences for the environment and health, has proved to be a poor instrument of contrast. Among the most promising fighting techniques could be the use of these natural antagonists, the so-called samurai wasp. The biological struggle, I remember here, is a valuable technique for our agriculture, which protects producers but above all protects the final consumer and also in Italy has not always been used as elsewhere, because, as has been said earlier, a contradictory regulatory framework that paradoxically could have preserved the environment. Among the few exceptions, Mr Bruzzone mentioned very well earlier, it is worth remembering the experience of contrasting the cynipid of chestnut, a hymenopteran that risked to destroy the chestnut growing by fruit and to create serious prejudice to the chestnut groves that characterize most of our forest heritage. This parasite has been effectively countered without the use of pesticides, but simply by introducing its antagonist, which has allowed to face, in full respect of the environment, an emergency that risked causing dramatic consequences. It was in fact in force the decree of the President of the Republic n. 357, which had transposed in Italy in excessively restrictive terms the so-called habitat directive; Article 12 strictly prohibits the introduction in Italy of non-native species and populations, as has already been said. This Government has appropriately moved - in this regard, I thank the Undersecretary and the whole Government - and on April 9th it approved a new wording of Article 12, which now provides that even in Italy it is possible, in the presence of justified reasons of public interest, to derogate from the prohibition of the introduction of non-native species or populations, on the basis of studies that show the absence of negative effects on the environment, however, of important monitoring. However, the new legislation, adopted very quickly, provides for an articulated procedure; that is what we are going to highlight today and call for it to be implemented as soon as possible. In fact, it is necessary for the Ministry of the Environment to adopt a decree setting out the criteria for the release into nature of non-native species and populations. This entry into the system is likely to delay for too many months the practical start of the experiment of the wasp samurai (and therefore the action of contrast to the bug) and not to allow rapid intervention already perhaps in this agricultural season. It might be too late if we wait a little longer. That is why the Agriculture Commission - for which I thank the President and all the members - has worked well and found a unanimous summary in a document that we are bringing to this House and whose approval here today is very important. Today, the House is called upon to give the same approval already expressed by the Committee on Agriculture. We no longer have time to lose: the latest surveys, in the various sites monitored, on the state of the wintering of the Asian bug have shown that the spills, from the beginning of March to the last month, are equal to more than 27 percent; a figure higher than that occurred last year. The synthesis of the sources that emit weather forecasts indicate that these first two weeks of June have been and will be characterized by a gradual and continuous increase in temperatures, minimum and maximum, and by a regime, in terms of rain, below the seasonal average; this is the ideal context for the bug to do damage. In addition to thanking of course all those who have spoken and the contribution made by all the Groups, I simply say that research and experimentation institutes have done their work well. We have made use of important documentation - including that provided by the Create - giving value to the work of monitoring and fighting against this harmful insect. We play in advance and use the intelligence that is ours; it is necessary to block and give a ready answer. We can and must do so quickly; today's vote is necessary to do so. That is why our Group (Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione) will vote firmly in favour of this precious and decisive resolution, for farmers and for all Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u199	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current climate change, together with the now-acclaimed phenomenon of globalisation, has, as everyone knows, clearly had an impact on the environment and on agriculture. Just a few weeks ago we passed a bill that dealt with some of the emergencies caused by these factors. I remember, as an example, the drama of Xylella or the damage caused by bad weather, however more and more frequent. This necessary premise is necessary for me to stress the seriousness of the situation, since, a few days later, this House is forced to commit itself to a new emergency in agriculture. This time in the center of attention is the Asian marble bug, which is an alien insect to our environment, arrived who knows as in our country and that, thanks to the unusually high temperatures of the past autumns, has proliferated exponentially, destroying important crops. This happened in the North, in the Centre and in a little while it could also happen in the South (we hope not). The voracity of this insect is immense: it is able to attack more than 100 different varieties of vegetables (many are the vegetables that suffer damage) and this makes this drama a real national emergency. However, this is the case at a time when the maximum profit of farmers can be put on the market, i.e. when they should sell their products. The further fear stems from the fact that in our country the insect does not encounter natural antagonists and that thanks to the particularly favorable climate, as has already been said and I repeat, it manages to double its already remarkable reproductive ability reaching to reproduce up to twice a year. In order to stop the damage caused by the Asian marble bug to our crops, we have tried to find the most appropriate solutions. It has been proven how difficult it is to stop it with the nets and those treated with insecticides: there are many difficulties to operate a complete coverage of the crops to be protected, especially on large plots. One very important aspect is that the costs of using these tools are enormous. The pesticides available then proved to be absolutely insufficient to stop the proliferation of this real scourge: the experiments carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry policies and by public and private research centres did not produce definitive solutions and the other experiments recently initiated by the Ministry itself through the use of new plant protection products or native antagonist insects highlighted various limitations and concrete problems on the times. The scientific community, therefore, is almost unanimous in believing that the classical biological struggle can be the most appropriate response to contain the development and damage caused by the Asian marble bug. In order to fight it the natural antagonists of this insect must necessarily be used, but they are not present in Italy and therefore it is necessary to import them from the area of origin of the same insect in question. Scientists are therefore also convinced that the only solution is natural antagonists who are able to stop their production because they eat eggs and the antagonist par excellence seems to be a bug repeatedly recalled in this House which is the wasp samurai. Without prolonging, because so much has been said and because the document makes clear references to the attention that will be used in introducing these insects into our ecosystem, I hope a unanimous mandate from the Senate Assembly to ensure that as soon as possible every measure that exceeds the current regulatory constraints provided for in the Habitats Directive that prevents our scientists from introducing these non-autoctonous insects is adopted. This request has also come to us, among others, from the representatives of the Foundation for Research on Innovation and Technological Development of Piedmontese Agriculture (Agrion), auditors in the 9th Commission. In addition to the many audit bodies, I would like to begin by thanking President Vallardi, who has always been very active, but also the whole Commission, who has worked together to achieve this resolution which I hope will be adopted by everyone. Never before must Parliament show unity of intent and speed, which must be followed by the same speed on the part of those who, in fact, will have to combat this new scourge of the 21st century. As pointed out also by representatives of Crea, it is now acclaimed by the most recent cases also in Italy that intervention quickly can allow the eradication of alien species with low economic and social costs, as for example happened for the outbreak of Asian tarlo in the urban air of Rome; on the contrary, losing the ability to intervene in the initial phase, as happened in the case of Xylella, leads to an exponential increase of costs and the impossibility to eliminate definitively the problem. In short, we must make it quick - it has been said by all - to stop the progress of the Asian bug that destroys the work and the gain of thousands of our farmers. Once again, however, I want to say strongly in this Senate that we must stop having an exclusively emergent approach when it comes to issues related to agriculture. Turning to the Undersecretary, whom I thank for his presence in the Commission, I would like to say that globalisation and climate change require us to have a rapid and forward-looking approach, otherwise in a few weeks we will still be facing a new emergency and unfortunately, colleagues, the news that comes to us from Nuorese about the invasion of grasshoppers does not reassure us at all. In conclusion, therefore, I am naturally in favour of the Forza Italia Group's report, but I hope that in a very short time concrete actions will be put in place, such as the establishment of a fund dedicated to this type of emergency, in order to prevent when possible and immediately manage these events which, alas, will no longer be a single but, unfortunately, the sad everyday life. We owe this to our extraordinary agri-food heritage, but above all we owe it to the sacrifices our farmers make every day to preserve our environment and to allow ourselves to enjoy the goodness of their products. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u202	NATURAL (M5S). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, talking about Halyomorpha halys, the so-called marbled Asian bug means tackling a problem of global interest and difficult management that is causing dramatic consequences for agriculture and the environment, as we have all agreed. This bug is a particularly infesting insect native to East Asia. Since 2012 it has invaded many regions of our country, starting from Emilia Romagna, where the first specimen was captured, and from there it is now in rapid expansion towards Central Italy. Polyphagus insect, nourishes and lives on more than one hundred host plants, preferring those of the rosacea family (melo, pear, peach) and herbaceous crops (soy and corn). It nourishes of mature fruits, but also immature, of seeds, of freshly formed green jets and also of young barks. It has its own characteristics that differentiate it from other domestic bugs, it can survive longer, up to a year and a half of age, and it is very prolific, as we have seen: females can lay eggs several times (about thirty at a time up to 400-500 in total per individual in the course of life). Unfortunately, the contrast measures taken so far have had limited and unappreciable effects; insecticides are mostly ineffective because insects to feed introduce the mouthpiece in depth below the surface of the fruits. It is a real disaster for Italian crops already hard tested by so many adversities, to which are added these damages that reach up to 50% of the production in the fruit and vegetable sector of the Centre-North. It goes from purely aesthetic damages, which are the cause of the devaluation of the product, to the more severe ones, where the bites of the insect can result in the loss of the harvest. That is why the government and we in the Committee on Agriculture have already dealt with it in good time. Among the actions of the Ministry, the authorization to Crea to carry out a program of biological control of the Asian bug, with which, after acquisition of all the necessary permissions, was introduced in quarantine condition and for only study reasons, the species alloctona natural antagonist of the bug, the Trissolcus japonicus, a parasitoid hymenopterone better known with the name of wasp samurai. Following these and other studies carried out in collaboration with the Regional Plant Health Services and carried out in parallel also by other scientific institutions such as the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and the University of Turin, the Create denounces that the incidence of autochthonous antagonist insects in the control of the bug is to be considered at the moment not decisive and therefore useless to contain the damage in a meaningful way. Similarly, chemical instruments, such as nets or anti-septic traps, have proved to be substantially ineffective. At the present state of things it seems that the strategy for the containment of the Asian bug is represented by interventions of classical biological struggle to be realized, however, with the use of exotic parasites coming from the same range of origin of the bug, in particular using ovo-parasitoids, small microimenopterans who lay their eggs in the eggs of the bugs, causing their death. An effective contrast to the marbled bug has therefore been identified in the wasp samurai, insect that comes from the far east not assimilable to the wasps present in our territory, as it has dimensions close to the 2 mm and is not equipped with sting, but is able to parasitize the eggs of the bug, in order to contain the diffusion: in China it manages to reach percentages of parasitization greater than 70-80 percent of the ovatures. It would therefore be useful to introduce this insect in the field, after genetic typing and complete all the necessary studies, in order to evaluate also the effects on the native species. This introduction to the present day in Italy is not allowed because of the current legislation represented by the decree of the President of the Republic of 12 March 2003 n. 120, amending the decree of the President of the Republic n. 357 of 1997 which, in article 12, paragraph 3, generically prohibits the introduction of non-autoctonous organisms and does not provide for any derogation for the interventions of biological control of alien species. In our country there are therefore more restrictive rules than those established by the so-called European Habitat Directive of 21 May 1992, on the conservation of natural habitats, semi-natural and wildlife, a directive that allows instead to introduce, in a regulated way, natural enemies of alien harmful species. With these vetoes Italy is exposed to the risk of serious environmental damage resulting from the inevitable intensification of accidental introductions of insects and other harmful organisms due to the mobility of means, goods and people derived from the globalization that we are experiencing. Coldiretti already cites the data of two out of three insects as alien species. For this reason, experts in the field stress the need to derogate from this prohibition by amending Article 12 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 357 of 1997. It is basically a return to the past as the paragraph 3, preceding the amendment made by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 120 of 2003, allowed the study and introduction of non-autonomous species, provided that there was no damage to the natural habitats, nor to the fauna, nor even to the local wild flora, taking into account the economic, social and cultural needs. Therefore, after consulting the Regions and obtaining the opinion of the State-Regions Conference and the Council of State, on 4 April 2019 the Council of Ministers finally approved a regulation, to be adopted by decree of the President of the Republic amending Article 12 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 357 of 1997, thus authorising also in Italy, in the presence of reasons of public interest, derogations from the prohibition of the introduction of non-autoctonous species, on the basis of studies that show the absence of negative effects on the environment both of appropriate criteria and without prejudice to the necessary periodic checks. The new Article 12 provides for an extremely complex and complex procedure, which risks exceedingly lengthening the time for the practical start of the field trials. This means that the wasp could not act as a counter to the Asian bug in a short time, with serious damage to the crops affected by this scourge. It is therefore desirable that the highest priority be given to the adoption of the Ministerial Decree provided for in the new Article 12, which sets out the criteria for the introduction of non-automated species and populations on the Italian territory, considering the results of the experiment already carried out on the wasp samurai. Of course, this will have to be done in the protection of the environment and biodiversity and, therefore, all necessary and in-depth studies must be carried out, putting in place constant monitoring in order to avoid alterations to the entomofauna and in general to the pre-existing balances. The need is to protect the Italian environment and agriculture in the best possible way, trying to use as little as possible chemical treatments and at the same time to combat the spread of insects very harmful to an agriculture that must be aimed at organic. It is necessary to be aware that globalisation, with all kinds of exchanges between States, will inevitably put us in the face of the problem of containing alien species. Therefore, in advance, we must structure ourselves in order to put in place effective systems of contrast and to have a regulatory system that allows it. For the reasons set out above, I announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars to the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u203	Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the G1 agenda will be put to the vote after the resolution of the 9th standing Commission. I take the opportunity to ask Senator Abate if she accepts the request for reformulation. ABATE (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 5. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1 (text 2), presented by Senator Abbot and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u206	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wanted to point out a story that many of us know about. Until about a couple of years ago, for twenty months in a row, a tent was planted in Piazza Montecitorio and housed the Biviano brothers, who, you will remember, are youngsters suffering from a progressive muscular dystrophy of the face-scapolo-omeral type (FSO). Next Thursday, June 20th, will be the International Day of FSO Dystrophy. While we were preparing to celebrate this day with scientific events, but also of a human character, it happened, just two days ago, that the greatest of the Bivian brothers, Sandro, fell from his wheelchair and fractured two of the most important vertebrae, the C2 and the C3, the highest vertebrae. At that moment it was called the ambulance, which underestimated the trauma that had been created and interpreted it, essentially, in the light of the pathology of which this boy is a bearer. He was taken to the Gemini's emergency room, usually a good first aid, but in this condition this boy, Sandro, was left alone, lying on a stretcher, without taking proper charge of him. I would point out that it is almost a miracle that he is alive because the fracture of the C2 is what is created as a result of the so-called death by hanging; when one dies hanged it is because the C2 is fractured. He was for a long time only on a stretcher, in a precarious and damaging condition to his condition of multiple sclerosis, being a boy who usually moves in a wheelchair, but above all to the fracture he had suffered. The next day, since the only treatment is immobilization, he was sent home. Now this boy, who is from Lipari, who moved from Lipari to Rome to be followed at the Gemelli Hospital, at this moment is without being able to count on the forms of regionalized assistance, as are the home care, the possibility of having a physiotherapy at home and, at the same time, to have had the most dramatic experience for him who for twenty months had been in Piazza Montecitorio to protest against a series of disorganizations typical of the national health system. It is therefore in a condition that is truly dramatic. I want to report the case. Many colleagues know the situation and I also want to ask publicly, in front of everyone, what can be done to meet the needs of a patient outside the Region, who has not found a place in the Polyclinic, and has been sent home in an open trauma condition and, therefore, is really in a situation of dramatic emergency. I would like that, knowing the situation someone, you want to the regional council of Lazio, or at ministerial level, or wherever it is, understood that in a family in which all four children are suffering from progressive muscular dystrophy, so no one can take charge of others, leaving this boy alone is truly a dramatic situation, which is unworthy of the health of a civilized country, especially when this health care is considered, at least theoretically, among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u207	I hope that Mr Grillo and Mr Zingaretti have listened and will be able to speak accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u209	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u210	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would like to address you and, consequently, to this House, with regard to an episode which concerns Parliament's prerogatives and also the normal relationship of institutional correctness between the Government and Parliament and vice versa. The fact that you are presiding over this House with a long experience can comfort you. We read in these days that a trial is in place, called "graticola", to which the Undersecretaries are subjected for the moment and then the Ministers of the Government will be. PUGLIA (M5S). Finally! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Puglia, he looked like a wolf. Mr Urso (FdI). This is in accordance with a procedure that was previously applied, quite legitimately, when party members selected candidates then submitted to the election (there would be no more). Only this case doesn't concern candidates under the electoral corps, but people who have sworn, in this case as Undersecretaries, to serve the institutions and subsequently Ministers who have sworn before the President of the Republic. If it were a political judgment, no question. I read, however, that the gratuola is done with interrogations, then recorded and secreted. [[Ironic laughter and applause of the M5S Group]] Members of Parliament shall therefore be required to complete anonymously the assessment sheets for each Secretary. PUGLIA (M5S). The world has changed! Mr Urso (FdI). Democracy doesn't, not yet! Democracy and Parliament are not, not yet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues! Mr Urso (FdI). You too must abide by the rules of democracy and have respect for Parliament and the Government. It is not an ownership fact, it does not belong to Casaleggio: it belongs to democracy and parliamentary rules. CASTALDI (M5S). You're an appointed man! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Castaldi, you should help me in the lead. Mr Urso (FdI). In this tab that is compiled... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] But what do you fear when you hear the opinion of a Member of Parliament in this House? What are you afraid of? Well, there will be an anonymous evaluation (luckily not binding because then the political leader will be able to decide otherwise), which will be made on a card in which the Undersecretary will respond - they tell me - of his presence when he is called to make political meetings and maybe he cannot participate and of his willingness to listen. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Listening to what? The evaluation shall also cover its capacity to provide information. But what information should a Undersecretary provide to a Member who is not provided to Parliament as such with the functions that Parliament and the Member of Parliament can perform, for example, with inspection functions? Functions that are sometimes delegated to the Undersecretary, but belong to the Minister. I'm going to the minister with the inspection union.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u211	Senator, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u212	Mr Urso (FdI). Sometimes the Minister may delegate to the Undersecretary because the Minister may revoke the delegation to the Undersecretary and the President of the Council may revoke, as has happened recently, or attempt to revoke. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] Well, what listening skills are we talking about? What information should you provide? Ability to provide answers, ability to achieve goals and organisational capabilities. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). Time's up. PRESIDENT. - Senator Urso, finish. Your time is up. Mr Urso (FdI). I wonder whether a Undersecretary should be judged through the Minister, who may then revoke the delegation, so that it is not done in Parliament, which is an expression of democracy and which is responsible for controlling the Commission. The individual Members do not have a direct relationship with the individual Undersecretary, who also has the right not to provide information to the Member, but has the duty to provide it to Parliament. [[Comments and prolonged ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u213	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Senator Castaldi's comments at Senator Urso's address.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-121.ana.u214	Beyond the standing ovation of your Group, Senator Castaldi, let us not go back to the last legislature because I have already expelled it sufficiently. The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 18 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed and I will let you have fun outside. 6:33 p.m.
