ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1586.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - those few in this House - I would like to take a step back and go back to a year ago, when we were discussing the financial law for 2019, and from the PD benches, then to the opposition, we were shouting: Shame! Shame! Put your trust in it. Refer to the parachute of the vote of confidence on the most important measure that our Republic is called to adopt, and that you are not able to bring to the attention of the two Chambers." And again: "The government does not dare to present to the Senate the maxi amendment on the budget law. We are ready to fight to prevent this yet another act of arrogance which deprives Parliament of its prerogatives." Today, a year later, again in this House for the financial maneuver for 2020, it is a certainty that this measure will not go to the third reading for any correction, and that there will be many corrections to be made. But let's get a little bit into the subject of the maneuver and talk about the much-disputed plastic tax. We started from 1 euro per kilogram starting from January 2020, and then up to 50 cents from July 2020, and 45 cents in April 2020. You did not even realize that on 5 December all the packaging companies, which are an excellence not only Italian but European, have arranged at national level a production freeze of one hour and have not asked for the remodulation of the tax, but its total elimination, because they are already taxed with the Conai environmental contribution. Why did they arrange this? Because this tax would lead to an increase in the cost of the finished product, which would affect the pockets of the Italians, and has already led to a reduction in orders, a reduction in turnover and - if they expect it - they will also have to make a reduction in staff. But you didn't even listen to them and instead of going to talk to these companies and listen to the squares, you were locked up in a building doing tactics and strategies to disassemble everything good the League did when it was in the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But plastic tax wasn't enough: it also took the sugar tax. But already in 2005 with a European directive we have found ourselves in recent years at the closure of eighteen sugar factories on nineteen in our country. This is because you continue to demonize Made in Italy, instead of valorizing it. And you hid behind the alibi of our children's food education and well-being. If, on the one hand, you take a glass of orange juice out of the hands of our children, on the other hand, with an amendment passed at night in the Budget Committee, put a cane in their mouths. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're feeding cannabis, you're dealing with the idea that smoking it is a good thing. Young people look at us and with this amendment you are telling them to smoke freely. You're telling our kids, but if you think it's right, let your kids smoke this crap, not all the Italians' kids! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is true that we must safeguard the health and well-being of our children, but a glass of orange juice has never killed anyone, while drugs have. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Also disappears the 21 percent dry coupon on the rents of the stores. And truly sorry that a year ago the Movimento 5 Stars had supported this advantage in favour of small shops, while this year it has completely changed its mind: to make envy to the best flagpole. Finally, shame of shame, taxed the Italians, taxed the companies, mortified VAT matches, but financed the celebrations for the centenary of the founding of the Communist Party, taking money from the pockets of the Italians. It's a shame! It's a shame! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Last night, in general discussion, a PD senator - whose name I don't remember now - said that the League would never make this budget law. It's the only thing I agree with: the League would never have done this budget law because it's a real piece of crap. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u5	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u6	Mr President, I take the floor to highlight a concept expressed by several colleagues, but I think it is the interpretation heart of the debate we are holding these days on the draft budget law. The point is related to the general view: this budgetary manoeuvre has no prospect, because, by admission of the same majority, it arises to eliminate the problem of EUR 23 billion in VAT and is based on savings of about 18 billion in interest expenditure, as confirmed by the Budget Office. The rest is formed, on the one hand, by leaps of various kinds, because in order to stop 23 billion VAT it was necessary to introduce jumps, and on the other by the classic operations that are made within the coalition governments and in this case it is a government quite "compound", let's say, that naturally has a series of flags to plant: so one force has the flag of the family, the other force brings home the income of citizenship, and so on. All this in a general framework of taxes that will be paid by citizens, even if - as we know - the plastic tax has decreased, while the sugar tax is and has been remodulated. Then there is the tax on public dealers; we have even registered the protest of tobacconists, because in fact they are raised any profit margin for taxes introduced on winnings; and then there are taxes on corporate cars, and so on. What is the question I asked myself, then, by listening to the Members who spoke during the debate and all the positions expressed? The question I asked myself is why a maneuver so did not take into account the fundamental data of an economy that is changing and has changed. What struck me most was, in particular, the fact that last year the so-called web tax, call it what you want, just to understand what was to be applied against the giants of the web, did not see the decrees implemented. An entry of around 6700 million had been planned and this year it was presented as a sort of success the fact that the tax on what we call the web giants is expected without the enactment decrees being issued. We no longer have an economy as it could have been in the '80s and '90s when you went to chase after the colf or caregiver who was paid in black, so suddenly the investigations against those who were finally ordinary people started, today I can almost say "poor people": the small entrepreneur who had the carer or the colf, the professional, etc. Today we have another economy and the money has gone somewhere else; they are now around large companies of a technological nature and it is clear that if I observe a revenue of 64 million on the part of these and I continue to tartasse the colf, the caregiver, the tobacconist, the craftsman and others, it means that this is a maneuver that does not even imagine how our economy has changed. He doesn't even try. I was surprised that the fact that no money was requested from the last budget maneuver was not the subject of a tight television debate, just as the taxes were not. Because there was the problem - so at least I understood - of the duties threatened by America. And isn't this an important issue when we go to discuss our country's position? Isn't it something fundamental to understand how we have to set up state budgets, bearing in mind that we live in a world where everything - from crime to the new economy - is paradoxically globalized? We need to try and get some answers. This extra step could be taken and, instead, it was preferred to maintain the existing (i.e. the famous 23 billion) and, above all, some flags, among which the most ignoble remains the income of citizenship, with the 18,000 subjects who were employed in front of a million people who should have had this type of support. In our opinion, this is a maneuver that, as I have tried to explain, does not have a perspective and makes choices that we do not share, because we consider them harmful and frankly not even categorized. From a red-red majority I expected something at least to identify. No, there isn't even the soul of something identified, I don't even see the effort to try to give solutions taking into account how the economy has changed. Then there is the issue of justice - on which I am a member of the Justice Commission - which makes us shudder. I do not want to shoot at the Red Cross, because the Minister is not in the Chamber, but, beyond the last amendment that fixes something in terms of administration and offices, we are witnessing a series of cuts to the detriment of the Ministry of Justice. There's a decrease classified in about 18 million lire... [[Applause from Senator Bagnai]] ...sorry, I wanted to say EUR 18 million, which comes from the reduction of EUR 65 million in the costs of computerization of the judicial administration, which is one of the most important things to pursue in order to make justice walk. More money is being taken away from the offices and - which has upset me - there is a definancing with regard to the food of the prisoners. You're gonna tell me, who cares about the inmates? I care because when it is said that there are riots in prisons and agents are at risk, this is also how prisoners are treated. You take the money off to feed the inmates? What do we have to do, the Tower of London? Shall we leave them there with a piece of bread? And then we get restless if the agents risk it? I think this is a vile thing for a civilized country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarielli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u8	Mr President, we do not formalise ourselves for the empty benches of the majority, perhaps there is also a certain embarrassment to come to this House to hear how things really stand on this budgetary maneuver. In fact, for our part, this more than a debate is a truth operation that we will also do in the country so that citizens are prepared for what will come on their head and taken from their pockets with this budget maneuver. Yesterday we heard, for the umpteenth time, a speech that is neither in heaven nor on earth: I mean to blame the League for the inability of a majority made by a Pinocchio who put together a maneuver that is more like a Harlequin. However, the Carnival will unfortunately end and the Italians will notice despite you will continue to say that you had to sterilize the safeguard clauses. Senator Marco Pellegrini of the Movimento 5 Stars looked this way. Before thinking about arithmetic - Senator, I don't see it in the Chamber and I'm sorry - think about history because on December 6, 2011 there was the Monti Government and it is on the other side of the hemicycle that you have to look at, that is the PD, that voted for certain measures such as saving-Italy and put the safeguard clauses. In 2013, when VAT went from 21 to 22 percent, there was the Letta Government and it has to look the other way and not from this one. Above all, in 2014 Renzi was there when the mechanisms of the safeguard clauses were certified not only for VAT, with amounts equivalent to the current ones, but for fuel excises. You, Senator Pellegrini, like your colleagues, with Senators Monti and Renzi governs us together and supports the same Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will remind you of this every day, as we will remind those colleagues, as long as there are no others who will no longer be able to do so, that in order to remain consistent with their values, with the citizens and with the mandate received, they may make different choices. In fact, you will have to answer to those citizens sooner or later. This maneuver compared to the one of a year ago has a great difference: last year we started a path that could start the economy again; it was a brave maneuver that looked at investment. Last year the debate focused on whether the initiatives we proposed as a 100 quota and the flat tax for VAT matches were covered or not; this year the whole maneuver is focused on how many and what taxes are in there and what are worth because this is really the maneuver of taxes and handcuffs. For example, should we tell you good reason why the plastic tax is postponed and is a little less high? This is a tax that was not there and that you make fall on the heads of companies and citizens with the excuse of the environment. Do you think that in other European countries we will not continue to produce, that in Italy there will be no plastic products and that unfortunately plastic will not continue to end up at sea dispersed for bad education and why it comes from countries outside Europe? He'll follow everything the same way. It is a hypocritical maneuver for cashing, which does not in any way affect the habits of citizens. It has been said that it is a micro tax, but it is a macro problem for those in those companies who work there, for those who will see their jobs at risk and will be forced to close the companies. You tax the hope there is at work, but you do worse: tax even illusion. I remember the speeches of Minister Di Maio and colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars when in the Dignity provision there was a ban on the advertising of games because one could not speculate on the illusion that the citizens had to change their condition with the games. Well, that tax on luck, which is on illusion, increases. Go fishing there, too. On the one hand, say that it is not good and, on the other hand, go and stick to it to increase the revenue of the maneuver; on the one hand, you take it out on alcoholic beverages and, on the other, do not move a finger in the face of the scandal that has emerged in Europe that aims to attach to the heart the Made in Italy, the agri-food, with the semaphoric label with a negative judgment on our products. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's what you're doing. It is good to remember that economic maneuvering is only an element of the overall disaster you are building for this country because you do even worse than taxing hope and illusion: you de facto seize money for a year that is not yours. In the related tax decree, which we will examine next week, do you know what the majority has come to do? It came with Article 3 and the next ones to say: dear entrepreneur, dear professional who boasts of the credits towards the State, I do not make you compensate for a year. Don't let those companies use their 4 billion and those same companies may have to access credit, take a trust or mortgage, to pay taxes because that credit that they boast towards the state you don't let them spend. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Four billion stolen from the country's real economy to the detriment of companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But it will come next week and unfortunately it will arrive in the pockets of citizens and businesses. And you tell us that you've kept everything there was in financial maneuver? Well, do you know the last one? In one of the amendments that have arrived, even with the excessive depreciation for companies no longer give contributions but tax credits, the same ones that will be blocked with the tax decree, assuming that these companies ever have a credit to the State to be spread over the years. This is what you do: keep teasing people, finding solutions from Manzoni's cries that do not simplify but complicate in such a way as to hold those resources that instead should be released. Some might say, however, that this is what we complain about, also going to study what is in the folds of the budget, what passes at night, and it would have been easy to quote, as Senator Nisini rightly did, the emblematic amendment on the celebrations of the Communist Party that - Senator Santillo, allow me - is not at zero cost, because otherwise it would not be in budgetary manoeuvre, but simply says that the resources will be engaged in the availability of the chapter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even worse, therefore: since you were ashamed of those 400,000 euros, you said that compared to what is to be spent, however something you will commit to this too. You have to tell us how much, there will be the commitment of spending in the end, we will bring it home, colleague, to show you that it is not at zero cost, that measure introduced with that amendment. As I said, therefore, we have proposed 950 qualified, precise and improved amendments, we have selected a part of them, 150, and not only have we not obstructed them, but we have done so on the contrary, we have helped you not to burden the time of discussion, since in the majority there was no agreement between the parties, between the rapporteurs and the Government and within the Government. We made sure to take the excuse away from you, choosing some qualified interventions that we thought might not upset the maneuvering system, which for us remained negative, but improve it and some were even approved. We have, however, done so by looking at a strategy, because it is true - to go back to the example of plastic - that we have proposed to remove that tax by amendment 79.1, but alongside that we have said that we have a vacuum process to make on plastic, glass and aluminum, saying that it can be done. All that we of the League propose and that we will present to the Country next December 14 with the no tax day is a set of negative things that we highlight, but also a set of development alternatives that aim to support the companies and to stimulate the employment. In fact, if development does not start again the country does not start again and it will be clear that difference that called Senator Rossomando. Senator, you said that your concern is to make Italians understand that we and you are different. Be serene: the Italians have understood it very well and will prove it to you in the next elections. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u9	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u10	Mr President, a few days ago the students of the third classes of the Higher Institute were visiting the Senate and at some point, a bit point-blank, one of the boys asked me: "Senator, how does he transform his ideals into political activity?" and I replied: For example, by ensuring that children of families in difficulty can continue to study, so that they do not have to give up their dreams. For me, for us, politics is this: the ransom, the emancipation of those who are excluded, the redistribution of power, opportunities and resources. For us, democracy is this: not having to give up on carrying out one's own life plan and the most powerful instrument of emancipation, redemption and social achievement is study. In our country there is a huge social issue and you pretend not to see it. Those who come from difficult places, from families without means, stop studying, do not enter university, because they do not have the possibility to do so, because university fees in Italy are too high, because keeping away from home costs too much, because the network of the right to study is too fragile, too fragmented and not enough for the real needs, for the great expectations. Student welfare, i.e. services, home, canteens, transport, health care, support for buying books, a set of interventions that in many countries accompanies students, in Italy is almost a mirage. But how much does it cost our country to disperse so much energy and potential? How much is the renunciation of thousands of 20-year-olds? How much is the risk of losing the ambition to play a leading role in society to entire generations? It is a huge, unqualifiable cost: loss of the future, loss of confidence, loss of sense of democracy, because the strength of democracy lies above all in renewing that pact of trust, so that children may be better off than fathers; but this pact has broken, it has broken too long ago. There is a sense of deprivation, of snatch and this has to do with the fact that in Italy there is a gigantic university issue, which is a gigantic country issue. Too few members, too few graduates, too few researchers, too few investments in innovation and research. Yet the future of the right to study, university and research is the future of the country; it means thinking about Italy's place in the world. What is our place in the world? We must ensure that it is among the strong countries, in the economy and in society, where there is widespread well-being, where the quality of life, work and care is for everyone and not for a few, where everyone has the same rights and opportunities. A country that is not afraid, that does not close, that does not renounce its collective role, that has the ability to guard the most advanced technological frontiers, in an age in which technologies connected to the Network and artificial intelligence completely permeate our existences, at a time when the works will not disappear, but will transform completely, quickly and will need more and more skills, high training. And the right to have them will more and more coincide with the right not to be cut off. That's why the barrier that closes the university, which prevents entering, which was politically chosen, due to the cuts that wanted the right, with Tremonti and the League, in 2009, is a social barrier, classist and must be scorned. We're trying to do this. It is mainly the children who come from technical and professional institutes to stop studying and to a large extent come from families in difficulty. The rule on no tax area, which we democrats introduced in the last parliamentary term, created for the first time a reversal of course: registrations have returned to increase and come largely from those social groups and from those institutions. In this draft budget law, in a very difficult context, in which most of the resources have been used to avoid the increase in VAT (it would have been a blow in the face of families and the manufacturing system), there is a rule that allocates 31 million euros more for the right to study, continuing the progress that we started in the last legislature: resources to eliminate the shame that today prevents so many kids who have the qualifications and the ability to have the scholarship, to cancel a real right denied. These resources are still far from what is necessary, but important. If this legislature and this majority last, they will have to put on the subject an organic law for the right to study, which finally demands equal levels between the services of the Regions, because there are unbearable territorial disparities, while we need a broad system, based on the demand of the new generations to be able to enter. We need investments in construction, in laboratories, in teaching, to overcome the logic of the scheduled numbers that is an unsustainable short circuit for a country with too few graduates. In this bill there is a first measure, which finances 1,000 new medical specialization scholarships. We know that it is not enough yet, but it is finally a first step towards tackling a lack that puts at risk the durability and quality of our health system. We tell so many young medical graduates that we are with them and that we will still be there, because our country needs them. Similarly, there are measures for teachers and disabled students of academies and conservatives, and therefore for a system that we want increasingly to equate with university. Mr President, in recent months I have been strongly calling for the Senate's Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage, to start a survey of the student status and precariousness in universities, because the two phenomena are connected and the precariousness is an enemy of research, which needs continuity and autonomy. Our system, on the other hand, exploits a structural precariousness, as a result of cuts and wrong rules. We must intervene on both these phenomena: we need funding, we need to change the rules and introduce a protected path, with the so-called tenure track, for those who win a competition, so that it can be assumed permanently, as a bill of ours and similar to the norm that we have introduced, for research bodies, in the so-called school decree-law. We need to complete the stabilisation of researchers, technicians and technologists, and our amendment to Article 29 will strengthen this path. It is absolutely necessary to continue the recruitment of researchers and to strengthen the role and resources for the doctorate, in order to make it the cornerstone of a strategy, which simultaneously projects training, industrial policies, for the public administration and for the labour market. In the same way it is necessary to rethink the National Research Agency, in order to make it not a top structure, but an instrument of autonomy and self-government of public research. On recruitment, doctorates and the Agency, the bill has largely failed: we must know and say it, but for us it is an open front, on which we will intervene. This bill, for research and university, does not represent the expected and necessary turning point, because there were no conditions, but this remains our goal and on this we must build a battle of ideas, politics, and mobilization, because together with that for the environment, the battle for knowledge is the greatest urgency of the time we live, and on this depends the possibility of a model of development, that feeds citizenship and democracy and not, instead, inequalities and authoritarianism. Mr President, let me conclude by giving a personal note, in dedicating my speech, which I hear a great deal, to someone who has missed this night: Amelia, a woman of a very poor peasant family, in the Marches, who made sure, despite all the difficulties, that her son - my father - could study and graduate. [[Applause from the PD, FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and IV-PSI Groups]] In this - in the possibility, for a son of peasants or workers, to graduate and aspire to be a ruling class - there are the meaning of our Constitution and of our democracy and the values of a life, which are intertwined with a greater and more collective history, making it important, for the destinies of all of us and of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u11	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget law before us aims to relaunch growth while at the same time ensuring the balance of public finances and proactive participation in the European project. The Italian and European green new deal, aimed at combating climate change, energy conversion, circular economy, environmental protection and social and territorial cohesion, will be the cornerstone of the government's development strategy. Instrumental to these objectives are the increase of the investments concerning in particular the innovation, the environmental sustainability, as well as the strengthening of the infrastructures, starting from the kindergartens free for the multiplicity of the families. In this regard, I would like to start with a parenthesis: in this draft budget law, too, we have thought of the South, while the South League's amendments result in only one relating to the Jonica state. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Rufa's comments.]] MORONESE (M5S). Signal yourself! PIARULLI (M5S). We have reduced the tax burden on labour and implemented a disability fund, the one relating to the protection of victims of crime. We have realized the recognition of an identical pay to the firefighters, who are finally equated with the other Forces of Order. This is also a concrete fact, not words. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have planned an extraordinary recruitment plan in the police forces, so let's see how, in reality, in this draft budget law the hypotheses and the planning are being realized. As far as justice is concerned, it is noted that the draft budget law in our examination is characterised by important measures aimed at increasing the staff of ordinary judges by hiring 250 winners of the competition already banned. It must be borne in mind, however, that expenditure of around EUR 14 million has been authorised for 2020, which will gradually increase in the following two years, up to an average of EUR 20 million. Permission is provided for the competition procedures for seven directors of juvenile criminal institutions, recognizing the figure of the manager precisely because of the complexity of some offices, such as those of Catanzaro and Bari. Extraordinary recruitments are also provided for the figures of the legal-pedagogical official within the prisons and cultural mediator. We talk about the inclusion and re-educational purpose of the sentence, according to the dictates of the Constitution. We are trying to make this aspect really concrete with the facts, especially with regard to the figure of the cultural mediator, which today is completely non-existent, precisely in order to ensure that foreigners are not in fact isolated and given the possibility to include them socially. This is an amendment to my first signature, which I tabled precisely for the purposes of re-education and re-socialization of the sentence, so also to meet the need for legality. Of particular importance is the extension of the single fund of justice from criminal to civil, with the activation, from 1 July 2020, of a profit-bearing account in the treasury of the State, in the name of Equitalia justice, in which it can bring together the liquidity attributable to the sums in the name of the single fund of justice, civil and criminal. I would also like to point out that there has been talk of the fact that funds for the maintenance of prisoners would have been taken away. Unfortunately, in this case too, I must point out that there is a reassignment of funds to ensure an improvement in the living conditions of the prisoners and of the entire staff, especially to finance the sporting activities of the staff of the prison police. I would like to point out that thanks to this maneuver the athletes will finally become professional sportsmen also from the contractual point of view. In fact, by extending the protections provided for in the Law on the performance of sports work, in order to promote professionalism in women's sport, a 100% contribution exemption is introduced for three years for women's sports clubs entering into sports employment contracts with athletes. The challenges ahead are challenging. There will also be a task force of the magistrates that will meet the needs of the districts that are in situations of greater criticality, recognizing also benefits to the magistrates who will give their availability. I am convinced that our country has a huge human capital, young people willing and a state-of-the-art industrial structure, which we have an obligation to enhance through the active involvement of all citizens, minds and productive forces that this country can boast of. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a financial economic maneuver must have a soul. It must contain within it the strength and the ability to animate an impulse of perspective that, in its articulation, approaches and interprets the deep needs of the Country, healing the wounds and transforming them into occasions of growth in the availability of resources. It should be an act of intelligence, which reads inside and chooses in the name of a rigor, even before numerical, cultural; that looks at the various worlds and privileges, not in a cold combinatorial game, but rather in the name of a value hierarchy that becomes the precondition of a journey, an economy of the common good, as Jean Tirole, Nobel Prize for Economics in 2014, would say; an economy that is not self-sufficient and autonomous, but a social discipline. The financial maneuver for a country like ours, that of stability has made a constitutional principle, is a path, a journey in itinerant and the search for a continuous balance that seeks, works for the stability of the country and stabilizes, after having found the balance between resources and needs. Politics must oversee this path. Normalizes it, determines the succession of the times in the spaces of implementation and takes charge of the responsibility to give an address, indicating precisely the horizon of the objectives that it intends, not only to represent, but to achieve. With this draft budget law we put the new direction that we intend to give to our country in black and white. In the political and economic sphere, the footprint we want to leave inevitably draws on the themes of environmental sustainability, economic growth and new and more worthy living, working and health conditions for all. Of course, the conditions we have found at the beginning of this new experience have not helped us: a very high spread, which has eroded the savings of Italians, threatening a worsening; the prospect of safeguard clauses, which would have led to a dangerous increase in value added tax, causing consumption and GDP to collapse, therefore the first and fundamental objectives of this maneuver could only consist in the sterilization of safeguard clauses and in a sharp, marked and courageous change of course in economic policies. The measure under consideration fully achieves these two objectives, first, as already mentioned, through the intervention that will avoid the increase of VAT and then through a series of measures that intend to reverse the trend of current stagnation and to restart our country, always respecting with the utmost seriousness our commitment on the containment of the deficit, in order to trigger a path that leads to the gradual reduction of the public debt. Before moving on to the central issues covered by this budget, we must also remember how valuable the contribution of this parliamentary passage has been, which has seen a great deal of cooperation and a climate of will within the Budget Commission. Returning to the themes, it is absolutely essential to start from the green new deal, a new paradigm for our country, which will be of great inspiration also for European partners. For the first time in the history of our Republic, sustainability and environmental protection are considered as indispensable conditions to ensure growth and well-being. It is a well-being no longer based on the outdated principle of GDP growth at any price, but rooted in the idea that economic prosperity can be accompanied by the protection of the ecosystem and human health, promoting urban regeneration, energy conversion towards a progressive and increasingly widespread use of renewables, the protection of biodiversity and the seas (through, for example, the new means that we provide to port captains to improve environmental safety). In this regard, I recall an important provision in favour of the port of Barletta, my city. As regards the fight against climate change, all the measures of energy restructuring and efficiency, ecobonus and sysmabonus are worthy of mention, whose disciplines have been visibly improved thanks to the fruitful listening to the critical issues reported by the world of small and medium-sized enterprises. I also remember the facilities in the field of construction and energy redevelopment, without forgetting the bonus facades; a measure that makes concrete the vision of a wide program of urban regeneration in favor of the villages, the cities and the outskirts of Italy. It is a new perspective, in short, aimed at projecting our country towards a model of development and preparing it for the future. With the green new deal it is expected to create two funds of about 50 billion euros, which will give a huge boost to the relaunch of public and private investments, to restore oxygen to the economy and the planet. At the same time, this measure succeeds in another courageous aim: the significant reduction in the tax burden on workers, all too often the victims of an excessively rigid tax system. Less taxes, then: 3 billion wedge cutting for 2020 and 5 billion from 2021 and for all subsequent years, with a view to a progressive decrease even in the coming years. A major step forward was also taken with regard to work, especially for young people, and to facilitate their access to the labour market. Just think of the 100% contribution reductions for three years for hiring small businesses, which will help entrepreneurs to hire our girls and our boys. Again, I want to stress the importance of what has been done and will be done for our Mezzogiorno, starting from the objective set to reduce the obvious and unacceptable disparities between territories and territories, between the South and the North of the country. This is done above all by strengthening the existing measures, such as the tax credit for the new ZES, the special economic zones, or the measures Rest in the South and Growth in the South, which will help to reverse the negative trends of demographic dynamics in the Mezzogiorno and, more generally, the socio-economic conditions of those areas of the country. Important are the interventions in favour of the agricultural world, the backbone of the economy of many territories. Among the many important measures, I would like to mention a grant and soft loans to finance companies that can combine agriculture and innovation, through the development of state-of-the-art production processes; the fund for organic farming, which strongly supports forms of agricultural production with low environmental impact and promotes the supply chains and districts of those who have believed and invested in organic farming. Equally significant are measures in favour of local authorities, such as incentives from the Municipal Solidarity Fund to merge and various simplifications that will help citizens without increasing their tax burden. It is also of great importance to allocate new, substantial financial resources; like the 1,000 more grants for specialization in medicine, so that our country can boast an increasingly ready, young and efficient health system, and above all an increasingly close service to the weak and the less well-off. Mr President, I would like to stress how good and considerable it has been in the social field, starting with what is planned for the most fragile people in our communities. This draft budget law attempts to give them new means to enable them to live a better life. The increase in the Fund for Disability and Non-Sufficiencies, which will be even more in support of people with serious disabilities and elderly people in need of care, is a source of pride. In the same way, the great support that we can give, with new resources, to the educational institutions that welcome children and children with disabilities or suffering from autistic spectrum disorders, accompanying them in their growth path is also a source of pride. Likewise, the attention shown for two important interventions in the third sector, those for the Italian blind Union and the Italian Federation for overcoming the handicap (FISH), which for years have been concerned with giving support to those who live a complex existence, not forgetting families, from the bonus baby to the establishment of a fund for universal cheque, to services dedicated to families, passing through the bonus for kindergartens. There is, however, another very important and highly symbolic element: I am referring to interventions and measures in favour of women, from the most symbolic one, to facilitate access to the professionalism of young athletes, to the most urgent one, which concerns equal opportunities, as well as to the extraordinary action plan against sexual and gender violence, an intervention that conveys the attention that this Government intends to give to an ever greater extent. Mr President, this measure is the result of a great and laborious teamwork: the measures that characterize it represent a watershed between the ways of understanding politics, which it chooses and disposes, starting from a vision. I think that, even in the perfectibility of this path, the fabric of values that point to the common good has represented the precondition of a present and future action and, at the same time, has outlined the lines of a nation that looks with courage and responsibility to the future, working for the stability of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u15	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government - few, to the truth, excluding the Undersecretary Castelli, whose presence I acknowledge - budget maneuver is, as we all know, one of the most important measures that parliamentary assemblies must approve, both because of the complexity of its content and because of its impact on the lives of citizens. On the substance and in particular on many subjects and subjects, my previous group colleagues spoke. I will focus on the impact that the maneuver will have on the Italian agri-food sector. Among the many shortcomings of this manoeuvre, one of the most serious, in our opinion, is precisely the absence of measures for the protection of Made in Italy, the Italian brand. We witnessed a continuous succession of eco spots, which were nothing but a clever disguise of new taxes, such as plastic tax or sugar tax. In this regard, allow me to stress how outstanding is the sense of humor of the majority, which first inserts taxes, then rethinks and presents itself flagrantly to the world of having cut or moved them. If it wasn't tragic, it'd be funny. In addition to this, there is no planning or strategic vision. There is nothing about the growth and competitiveness of our agricultural companies, while, as I said, there is no protection of the Italian brand, always one of the main aims of Brothers of Italy, especially in the agri-food sector, in which Italy particularly excels, boasting an unparalleled image in the world, but which is increasingly under attack and not protected by the Government. It is precisely these hours that the news is that the European Commission has given the green light to the French Labalis for the acquisition of Nuova Castelli: so let's officially say goodbye to another key company of our Made in Italy, leaving in the hands of the French both the production of our typical cheeses, such as Parmesan cheese, and their marketing, with consequences for Italian producers and processors of the products of excellence. In this respect, if there had been one, I would have gladly asked Mr Teresa Bellanova - but he will not miss an opportunity - what he intends to do for the defence of our products in relation to the actions of a clearly Franco-German-led European Commission. I also wonder what the Commission would have done if the parties had been reversed, i.e. if the companies involved in this operation had been French. Surely the measuring meter wouldn't have been the same. Our attention to Made in Italy, on the other hand, has always been very high: just think that, of the 500 amendments that Brothers of Italy presented to the maneuver, a fifth concerns agriculture and the Italian brand. The red-yellow maneuver, on the other hand, on these sectors is totally lacking a strategic vision and attention to the growth of competitiveness of agricultural enterprises. We have seen the proposal of interventions disguised as ecologicalism, without, on the other hand, any appropriate investment dedicated to the sector. Examples in this sense are, as I said, the introduction of a tax on plastic and sugar and the failure to reconfirm in the first instance the green bonus (sorry, on this there seems to have been a second thought), which, although not incisive, is a common principle for the valorization of urban green. We proposed an amendment on this too to change the tax terms, but unfortunately it was not approved by the majority. All this sounds like a condemnation to the detriment of Italian consumers, businesses and families. There is no measure to counter the counterfeiting of Italian products to the detriment of our Made in Italy and there is the almost complete absence of interventions in favour of the fishing sector (in a nation with more than 8,000 kilometers of coast, projected in the center of the Mediterranean, where 1'80 percent of the fish consumed is imported), as well as a late increase of the fund for the contrast to the harmful Asian bug, which, although good news, risks to be completely ineffective, if not accompanied by interventions of structural revision of the law n. 102 of 2004. This is all that has been reserved for the agricultural sector in the draft budget law, whose text lacks planning and a future objective. Our agriculture and our agro-food sector, colleagues, do not represent a sector to be protected from the economic point of view, but our identity, our traditions and our culture (other traditions from Region to Region, often from country to country, but that together represent the Italian excellence in the world). For all these reasons, another manoeuvre was also possible in the agricultural sector. In this period, before the current debate, Brothers of Italy met with the most representative agricultural categories; we listened to them, we confronted ourselves, we gathered their requests and we transformed them into amendments. We tried to change a draft budget law that did little to help those who sacrifice, every day, work the land to deliver us the products that make our nation great and unique. We have proposed to simplify the bureaucracy in order to make the work of the agricultural sector easier; we have proposed a tax credit for those who invest in tangible and instrumental goods by 31 December 2020; we have introduced a simplified and less expensive administrative and contributory regime for seasonal or short-term employment relationships; we have tried to facilitate generational replacement in agriculture, introducing tax and contributory reductions for young people under the age of 40; we have tried to increase the purchase of products with geographical indication, giving support to families and assuming a tax deduction. We have called for the reinstatement of excise duties on agricultural gas oil and the abolition of the plastic and sugar tax, and we are convinced that we cannot be expected to educate by tax. We have tabled amendments for the enhancement of the durum wheat chain, for the valorisation of Italian wheat, and we have tried to introduce measures which seek to help farmers who have seen their olive groves destroyed by xylella; we have proposed extraordinary measures for the containment of wildlife, because the situation has now become emerging in many respects; not only the economic one, relating to the damage to agriculture, but also the environmental, health and, not least, road safety. All this - let me say this - is caused by a disastrous demagogic environmentalism, which today forces us to take emergency measures. These are just a few of our many proposals, with which we have wanted not only to correct a draft budget law which has already been rejected by the majority itself, which has tabled hundreds of amendments to amend it, but to put agriculture at the centre as a fundamental asset of our economic system. Unfortunately, we were not listened to. We have tried to give the agricultural world a unique and strong voice to defend Italian interests and products. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be a land of hamburger and kebab conquest. We are the nation of pizza, Parmigiano Reggiano, mozzarella, raw ham and those many products that represent Italian excellence. We cannot therefore allow a politically illegitimate government, born of a palace maneuver, to destroy this immense national heritage. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u17	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by sending a big greeting to Prime Minister Boris Johnson. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which in the United Kingdom, with a very simple, not at all complicated programme, with few taxes, support for the family and control of immigration and crime, has wiped out any other form of political competition. When we are finally allowed to vote in Italy, we will see something quite similar. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a budget, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of small cabotage. I wanted to talk about how he dealt with the issue of justice, but, after the statements of Minister Bonafede in... Porta a Porta" two days ago, from which it emerged with sunny clarity that does not distinguish between the dole and the guilt, I fell my arms to the point of considering the case to address this issue at another time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I shall therefore confine myself to talking about how this budget has dealt with our real capital, our families, our children and our future. We had tabled numerous amendments to this financial maneuver, with the will and the aim of helping the majority to do a good job, because if the budget law is done well, all this benefits the whole country. We had proposed funds to anticipate the retirement of mothers of large families: we have been told no. We asked for an increase in deductible charges for dependent children: we were told no. We asked for VAT to be reduced on early childhood products: we were told no. We had called for a fund to support young families and those young heroes who still have the courage to marry and bring children to the world in a society fiercely opposed to life and family: we have been told no. We asked for a fund for the first home, to support young couples in buying their nest: we were told no. We asked for a birth fund: we were told no. We asked for a maternity and paternity allowance and an increase in parental leave: we were told no. We had asked for help to prevent the children from being taken away from their families for economic reasons, so that things such as those that happened in Bibbiano would no longer be repeated: we have been told no. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For more security, you also said no to the installation of cameras when minors are listened to, so we can leave the system unchanged. We had asked for help for parents forced to leave the family home as a result of divorce or separation: we were told no. We had called for state support for those who are subject to international child abduction: we have been told no. We had asked for money, help and support to finance a law of the State, No. 194 of 1978, which in the first part clearly provides that mothers who fail to carry on pregnancy for economic reasons are supported, because life always counts [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Aimi]] : We were told no on this too. The real truth is that today, in 2019, in Italy, there are mothers who renounce the birth of their child for economic reasons and this is a barbarity of which you have become accomplices. There is no prospect, whatever, of future and trust in this financial perspective. Expenditure on our children cannot be considered as such, but must be regarded as investment. We must finally bring the country to a Copernican revolution from the fiscal point of view: the family must be put first and we cannot tax the members who work, the father and the mother to death, and then graciously give them back a few euros in the form of a contribution, with the hat in hand. This is not a form of real family-friendly tax, which would instead provide a flat tax for families, so that money stays in the pockets of mom and dad, and then be spent on children. That's what we asked for. We leave the money for fathers and mothers to provide for their children. You said to make the new government and the financial maneuver to prevent the increase in VAT: you lied because, on the one hand, you stopped the increase in VAT, but, on the other, you always take that same money from the pockets of citizens with taxes on plastic and sugar, indirect taxes that always and only weigh on the poor people! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is your way of doing it: with one hand you say give and with the other you go and remove. The few change you give to the family are only fig leaves, which cover the shame of a law that, once again, hits the usual pockets. But what I cannot forgive with my conscience - which, before being a senator and a professional, is a father - is that you, in the folds of financial maneuvering, hide a measure that liberalizes drugs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Lanzi]] Our boys deserve work, school, trust and support, not to end up in a toilet smoking drugs! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Shame on you! Shame on you! [[Vivaci, repeated comments by Senator Lanzi. Reply from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We will soon change all this, returning, as we did in Umbria, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Sardinia, Abruzzo, Basilicata and Trentino-Alto Adige, the Government to those who know and want to invest in the largest capital they have, our children. God bless Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations. Protests of Senator Lanzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iannone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as my group colleagues have said a great deal, the draft budget law before us leaves us completely dissatisfied, giving us the conviction that its overall system is very wrong, as we clearly said with our leader Giorgia Meloni a few weeks ago, when we presented our idea of a budget law in Bologna. There was the possibility of making other choices and demonstrating greater ability to compare. Signs of availability have come and we appreciate them, especially from the human point of view, but it remains a serious judgment on this maneuver, how it was born and how it will be consumed in its choices. We will face four votes of confidence in ten days: we have had it on the so-called earthquake decree; we will have it on the draft budget law; next week we will have it on the so-called tax decree and also on the so-called school decree. In this way, Parliament is completely exonerated from its functions and the country is handed over an armored text on the state budget, the law of the laws, which affects the life of all Italian citizens. I remember protesting vehemently about using the vote of confidence abundantly, but I believe that what we will consume from here to next week, with four votes of confidence, will remain a record. I say this because we will certainly listen - and we have already heard it in the Commissions - to this by the way in which this Government is born. But I would like to remind you that the budget law has been available since 2 November and we are about to move towards the end of December. I am in solidarity with my colleagues in the Budget Committee, who have certainly done a very heavy job from the point of view of institutional commitment. I thank my colleagues from my party, Calandrini and La Pietra, for the exceptional work they have done in illustrating and representing the more than five hundred amendments that, as Brothers of Italy, we have put on the field, always with the objective of making a positive contribution to try to improve the many distortions that the budget law, which we approach to vote, will create to our nation. From a political point of view, it is clear to everyone that a government, born on the statement that the increase in VAT had to be avoided at all costs, has ended up finding the resources of the budgetary maneuver by financing it for more than 50% in deficit and for the remaining 50% with an avalanche of taxes. The reason for paying so much taxes and taxes makes little difference to citizens. What aggravates the judgment is the fact that in some way one has tried to make them pass for ethical taxes, according to the ancient philosophy that taxes are good for a political part of this Parliament. So much has been said and discussed about the plastic tax, an absolutely absurd forecast of those who obviously do not know the specificity of our company productions. So much has been said about the sugar tax and we have seen, in the uncertainty of the political debate and in the heterogeneity of the composition of the majority, that in the end a tax will be adopted late. I do not believe that the fight for environmental protection can be fought through taxes, the destruction of our production sectors of excellence or simply by putting the cost in the consumer cart, as it will certainly be. I find it really appalling that we say that sugar should be taxed because it is harmful to health, when it is said that it is not the same as the consumption of drugs: it is a truly eccentric attitude, even from the ethical point of view, of this Government. Brothers of Italy has a very sensitive soul to the problems of the environment, but ours wants and must be a concrete environmentalism compared to the many real critical issues that our country denotes. We would have liked investments to combat the problem of hydrogeological failure in Italy, which is a dramatic topicality. We would have expected long-term policies to combat the problem of coastal erosion. A study by Aeneas a few days ago tells us that, by 2100, large portions of our territory and beautiful places will be swallowed up by the waters. There is absolutely nothing to be done about this; just as nothing is done about the protection of the ground. There is a rhetoric that can certainly increase the level of sensitivity, but then who is the ruling class of a nation has the need and - I say - the duty to put in the field policies that bring out of problematicity and not only participate in demonstrations that then leave only the memory of a political presence. The maneuver, in addition to these aspects, continues to do nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises, professions, craftsmen, traders, our VAT matches and all that world that works, sacrifices and has very little protection. Nothing is done for those civil servants who do their duty and there is no real investment in school. Minister Fioramonti, instead of taking care to remove the crucifixes from the walls of the institutes and replace them with the globe, should be concerned to maintain the commitment to increase the salaries of our teachers, who instead run the risk of shrinking. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We expect tragedies to happen in an impassive way. I will repeat that in every speech I have. This Italy chooses to follow the path of servility to Europe. The results of the United Kingdom's vote last night also explain how that road leads us to a dead end, which drives the United Kingdom across the Atlantic, leaving a weaker and more lonely Europe. Count I and Count II: Italy remains zero year. [[Applause from Senator La Pietra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u21	Since no one has done it and we have not exchanged greetings, I wish everyone good Saint Lucia. [[Applause.]] And I remind you to respect the appointed time. Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u22	Mr President, I wish you well too. I would like to begin by congratulating Prime Minister Boris Johnson, with whom we in Forza Italia have made a political agreement for years and on which we are counting for the defence of the interests of the great Italian community in the United Kingdom, which we know is dear to him. [[Applause from Senator Aimi]] We share the same faith in positive market values, discrimination of the best, meritocracy, social growth and the elevators that work. That's why so many of our boys go to London, where they start working as waiters, even if they are graduates. Two weeks later, I'm deputy restaurant chiefs; three months later, I'm in charge of a facility; within a year I'm a manager. This is the society we want and not a society with a nationalised economy and a social elevator that doesn't work. We want this and, as a centre-right, we hope to be able to apply these formulas as soon as possible. It is therefore not the approach we would have taken to the budgetary manoeuvre; we would have focused on two or three major initiatives and, in particular, on reducing taxes, rather than on a myriad of small initiatives that try to please everyone, as has been done during the countless hours of work of the Budget Commission. It was a great job in a different direction than what we aspire to and aim to apply soon. As for Italians abroad, as usual, there are very few satisfactions. I fear that we continue to think that Italians abroad are few and not intelligent, but neither is true; there are so many - as I always say - that are more than 12% of the Italian population, because there are six million AIRE members and this is a very underestimated figure. There can therefore be no regard for 12% of the Italian population and 500,000 euros for the promotion of Italian language and culture, because it is a mockery. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We cannot say - as some representatives of Italians abroad who are even in the government do - that we are going to experiment with electronic voting, and therefore we are taking a step forward, and then allocate one million for the elections of Italians abroad and also for some regional assembly. With the same money the Italians should go to vote with about eight-nine million. It is a mockery and Italians abroad cannot be mocked in this way. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Get out of your head that they don't realize it: Italians abroad are well aware - for example - that they continue to be the only ones paying on the only house they have in Italy as if it were the second. Now the Italian pensioners who had a reduction on the IMU will no longer have it. There is awareness of all this in the Italian communities abroad. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Do not think that they are not able to understand it: they understand it very well and will bear the consequences. The fact that we have avoided increasing costs for citizenship demands as a great victory has been promoted. First of all, this does not concern Italians abroad, but those who would like to become Italians, and therefore we are not talking, as usual, about the AIRE members, those we represent in this assembly; and then we should be content with the fact that we have not doubled taxes to obtain Italian citizenship? We want a new citizenship law. Members of the Government arrived in this House at the beginning of the parliamentary term saying that they would propose a text for the new criteria of Italian citizenship; we look forward to it, but we do not see it and we cannot be content with anything less than serious work. We have made proposals regarding - for example - the recognition of Italian catering abroad, a very important area in which tens of thousands of Italians abroad have found their fortune and brought the excellence of our food productions and our recipes around the world. We wanted to give an institutional recognition to this phenomenon which would also allow us to make a serious promotion of our products and would allow us - for example - to combat the phenomenon of Italian soiling. The Government's response in this budget law was to give - I hope with a contract - a contract to a communications company in Italy to do the usual advertising campaign against Italian sounding. The fight against Italian sounding, however, must be done abroad and not on Italian radio and television networks. And it must be an activity in which Italians abroad, which have tens of thousands of structures that promote Italian products, the real Italian restaurants abroad, that we would have liked to recognize, should be in the front row, because it is the function that a network that we have and has no other country in the world could usefully carry out. Instead we continue to make mistakes, so we talk about the defence of Made in Italy, we are ashamed to find Parmesan around the world and then we do not promote in the structures abroad the real Parmesan. That way we won't go very far. I have spoken of pensioners, of electronic voting, of promoting language and culture, all of which have been allocated very little funding in the budget maneuver, and of which we give ourselves, and also of the fact that our institutions continue to be questioned. In this parliamentary term - alas - the only Commission in charge of analysing the issues of Italians abroad (the Italian Affairs Committee abroad) has been abolished by this House, which has been replaced by an embarrassing investigation by the Commission for Foreign Affairs. We are investigating the phenomenon of Italians abroad, as if they were a particular category and not - I repeat - 12% of the population. Even the funds to finance the renewal of the Comites, which are elective assemblies - a great democratic experience that only we abroad have - have been questioned and renewed under a state law every five years. The funds to renew the Comites in due course were questioned in April 2020. It is therefore a maneuver that leaves us very dissatisfied, that does not meet the interests of Italians abroad and continues not to employ them, thus not allowing us to perform that extra function and to be an example of professionalism and knowledge of the world and of the many sectors in which Italians abroad specialize. We continue - for example - not to allow someone who comes from outside to make their contribution in the Italian public administration; we have proposed it on many occasions and we continue to see no results. It's a missed opportunity and we take it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u23	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u24	Mr President, yesterday, when I was preparing the speech to be delivered today, I tried to understand what the tax party had to do with the happy decline party and I found a glue: handcuffs and taxes. This is the law of handcuffs and taxes, point and stop. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] VALENT (PD). Weren't you the handcuffs? VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). When one sees, reads and realizes where you take the country, Senator Lucidi did well yesterday to say: I'm out of the hamster wheel, out of the hamster wheel. But you're putting the Italians in the roar! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're putting Italians in there running to pay your taxes! Tax only! We read in the newspapers: tax evasion is indecent. The 59 percent tax burden is indecent in Italy, which you want to continue to increase! But where do you want to take her? 70? 80? It is indecent to read that you want to give money to the party of the Communist Party that turns one hundred years old. It's indecent! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The country suffers and you give money for the party of the Communist Party, not of the hundred years, but of the ninety-nine and also of the hundred: a madness. It is indecent that this country has a bureaucracy that is something incredible; that must be dismantled. It is indecent that, because you can't do the trials quickly, they make them eternal. And then you have to find the Minister's reasoning, which he said the other day that, because we can't put people in jail with a dole, we blame them. That's it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Explain to me the guilt: since we can't do it with the will, then we put people in jail with the guilt. Good! This is a reasoning that is very frightening in a democratic country. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs I have noted a very worrying fact, on which you do not think: there are Italian families who go abroad to find a future. Today they go abroad unfortunately Italian families who have children, to give them a future. You don't think about that! Think about taxes and handcuffs, because you increase taxes, put Italians in rust, where they run and pay taxes. This is the only reasoning you can make, and perhaps because you have never had a VAT number. What do you do next? Remove - and this is also indecent - the video surveillance to protect children and the elderly and, I add, even teachers from something that is said and maybe not true. Take that off, too. That's the difference between us and you. The difference between us and you is that we have a country vision in 2025 and 2030: we think about infrastructure, health, work, business and culture. Let's think about Italy: first the Italians and then the others, as happened in the United Kingdom yesterday, thus obtaining a great victory. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see on your side of the Chamber, today really "full" you remind me of a scene in the film "Titanic," in which you see the orchestra playing while the ship sinks. You're playing while the country is sinking. Awake! May God forgive you for what you are doing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u25	Let us leave the good Lord in peace.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u27	Mr President, since the beginning of yesterday's debate, the Forza Italia Group has changed its vote against the maneuver in question, its inconsistency and the lack of a project, the result of compromises found in the Commission at the last moment. My speech will focus on one aspect: it will be a monothematic, monochord, but I hope not monotonous. The premises are already there, from the incipit. I believe that a sector that is completely forgotten and vexed by the maneuver under consideration is that of the house. The real estate sector, in its many and varied expressions, is an inescapable value for Italian society and economy. Politics has not shown, to date, a great interest in the real estate sector, as if it did not bring an added value for the economy of our country. I remember that since 2010 the level of tax pressure has practically splashed and in a single year, 2010, we switched from municipal property tax (ICI), which gave revenue of 7 billion euros, to the single municipal tax (IMU), with revenue of 21 billion euros. The result is that the country continues to be deflation from the real estate point of view and that means that the value of the properties of our real estate is giving up, it is decreasing. The decrease is probably expressed in the savings of Italians: is that what you want? I hope not, and I hope it changes course. The Government and the majority have continued to ignore the crucial importance of the sector and in the draft budget bill little or nothing have done to relaunch it, providing only spot and short-term measures, without any medium to long-term and breathless planning. Forza Italia, proudly claiming its history, has always considered it essential to intervene and start from home and real estate, starting first of all to reduce the tax burden on it. I remember that it was the Berlusconi Government that removed the ICI on the first house and introduced the dry coupon on housing rentals. The result was a first example of flat tax, with an advantage for the state's revenue and, therefore, with the possibility of acquiring more money. Today it is of absolute evidence that in the maneuver you have removed what good, even in part, had done the previous Government, that is the dry coupon for commercial rentals, that is for the locations of shops and shops. At night - as is often the case unfortunately - the government and the majority have decided to cancel the 21 percent dry coupon on the rents of the shops, which had been introduced a year ago, with the intention to limit the serious crisis of the commercial premises. This is a surprising and unholy decision, which does not find any justification, because if this measure "beats" a revenue of EUR 160 million - as was said at the time - it was a hypothetical revenue, since these measures must be seen over time, and you know it well. Evidently someone has thought of correcting the twists of what is commonly called the tip law to suit their needs. Our centres, our cities and our villages pay the costs, where you make it more difficult to rent shops and shops. The need for coupons was clear, so much so that several amendments have been tabled to this effect not only by the Forza Italia Group but also by many others. It is also true that all associations, from traders in the first place, have supported the importance of maintaining this measure. In the absence of the coupon, which will not be renewed for 2020, it is clear that there will be a completely negative effect on current contracts. The owner will in fact be subject to the additional regional IRPEF, the additional municipal IRPEF and the registration tax for a total load that can exceed 48 percent. In short, we tear our clothes for the expansion of Amazon and for the death of neighborhood shops we eliminate the only measure with which there was the hope to revive a sector in crisis, helping to improve the appearance of our cities, fighting degradation and insecurity. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Then there is the grain of the merger of IMU and TASI that did not have to increase taxes and instead it is not so. It will be a cold fusion that will bring the rate from 7.6 to 8.6 per thousand. This rule, with doubtful legitimacy also from the constitutional point of view, definitively sets the rate for Rome and Milan to 11.4%, unlike all the other cities for which we are at 10.6; it makes any connection to the services present now in TASI disappear; it increases the taxation on the owners of rented properties, downloading on them the tax quota that was in the TASI to the tenants; and, moreover, you have not corrected a thing of absolute evidence because the norm keeps the impositions vexatorie like those on the inactible real estates and those impossibili for the absence of tenants and buyers for which the taxation can be reduced up to 50%. Finally, as far as the Calmerate canon contracts are concerned, you think you have stabilized the measure, but you do not. You have not achieved what you say, because the measure will be applied only in some municipalities in Italy, i.e. only in those with high population density. We have pointed out this problem to you in a number of amendments that you have rejected, and you have done wrong. Of course, our vote on this maneuver can only be against. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u28	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u30	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I see that the Undersecretary has just finished calling. I wanted to draw your attention, since you have been engaged in a long phone call, to following the proceedings of this House. I'll see what time you're done. I want to remind you that a phone call extends your life, but it doesn't mean it extends your term of office. Thanks for coming back. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u31	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I am not from my own party, I would like to confirm that Deputy Minister Castelli has worked very hard, day and night, in these months and in the last few weeks, taking the country out of the sandbox where you left it. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). So do we! CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Of course, my speech at the moment doesn't want to be on numbers. We spoke many times about numbers when we commented on NADEF and the individual measures contained in the draft budget law in the Commission. It is worth remembering, however, that the maneuver to our examination stabilizes all the indicators, all the parameters; the new government has stabilized relations with the financiers and, therefore, has stabilized the spread. With regard to the maneuver, 23 billion out of 30 were used to sterilize the increase in VAT already decided by the previous government and another 3 billion went to reduce taxes on workers, that is the famous tax wedge. So the tax burden doesn't increase, and that's what the numbers say, despite propaganda. If you look at objective numbers, you can reassure yourself. Clearly, citizens are right to say that the tax burden in Italy is very high. From this point of view, it is our serious understanding to work to reduce it. How? Paying everyone, paying less; therefore, doing what was done on the tax decree, working very hard to combat tax evasion and then, of course, reducing the tax burden in a fair way. What I want to do today is talk about the future. From my point of view, talking about the future means talking about the potential growth factor, the greater and better that we have in Italy. And the potential factor is the talent and employment of women. To do this, to exploit the enormous basin and potential that we have in Italy, we need assumptions. These assumptions are, from a certain point of view, valuable and ideal - as the Constitution says - in the sense of an equal climate in the country, which is not yet built; and then better conditions for women to gain access to the political, social and economic life of our country. Bank of Italy and Istat have confirmed that Italy is penalized by a gap of 14% on the European standard levels of women's work. We're still at 50%. This means that one in two women in Italy does not work: in the South, one in three women. And this very much penalizes growth, expansion, vitality, creativity, the future of our country. For this reason, our understanding has been to overcome such obstacles, which undermine at the root the growth of our country. The family act is one of the pillars. Clearly, work is closely linked to growth. If there is no growth, there is no work. This is true for everyone, but for women the obstacles are of other origin, of other nature and are more than anything else based on a nature of cultural origin. For this reason, the family act has put in place a series of measures to allow women to get rid of all the care jobs, in order to get out of that condition that sees them at home, that sees them working less, with occasional career paths and with part-time jobs, low pay and even little able to generate an adequate pension in the future. For this reason, we have put in place a very important investment in terms of the realization of kindergartens, of the restructuring of structures, also of kindergartens of the childhood, in order to realize those structures even where today there are not and to allow all the women of Italy to realize in politics, in social, in life. From this point of view, therefore, here is the bonus kindergartens up to 3,000 euros in relation to the ISEE, in order to be able to be helped to pay the fees; to allow women to balance and work on parental leave; to give men the same responsibility for care as women, women the same rights in social and politics as men and men have the same duties of care and responsibility at family level. From this point of view, much has been done in terms of investment: more than 600 million have been invested in the family act. A great deal has also been invested in another chapter, which is based on the same cultural inequality that exists and concerns the issue of violence. There are many investments in terms of the fund to combat gender violence and to create, structure and finance the paths for the re-education of abusive men; investment and release of funds to help orphans of victims of feminicide and to respond to even the most current cases of reporting of orphans burdened by debts to the State. So, a great deal has been done from this point of view. Much has also been achieved in terms of training. We've restored education paths to respect in schools. We have structured the paths in universities, so that judges, journalists, politicians, lawyers can have an equal culture, a culture of respect, and can also work, in this sense, in writing more just sentences and in defending women victims of violence in the best way. A lot has also been done for women at the top, and not because we like to work with niches, but because we think that the ruling class has a strong potential for helping growth and change in this country. Positive, therefore, is the extension of the Golfo-Mosca law, which sees women to the vertites of the Italian listed companies, decided in the decree-law in tax matters to the House. Even better is the increase in the presence of women in these same organs, from 30 to 40%, decided in the Senate. Very positive is also 40% of women in the National Research Council: we need a female ruling class that can give a different approach to our country. That's why we say that our family model is very different from that model that women see at home and put back to other people's decisions. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and M5S]] What I want to leave to this House with regard to the maneuver is a political fact: an instant photograph of the members of the Budget Commission at the end of the work - of course very long in the last few hours - of the last few months. It is a snapshot that returns two elements. The first is the return of politics: to hold a government with four political forces means to put at the centre the confrontation, mediation, dialogue and even the clash in order to find the synthesis. And this was absolutely dramatically lacking in our country for too many months, too long. The second element is stability: it is a snapshot that gives the idea of a government governed by political forces that can stabilize our country, that can succeed in building that policy of structural reforms that needs stability in the medium term to be realized. All this gives us stabilisation: of the accounts, of the social climate in Italy and of the relationships between man and woman, which are the prerequisites for doing much better. In our agenda, since January there has been a shock plan for growth and investment. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u34	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I personally cannot understand the method by which we manage the draft budget law or the decree-law in tax matters: to drag along, to disagree within the majority, to doubt the measures, to inability and then to arrive at Monday - as is expected - with a large amendment on which to place trust, with the excuse that we are at Christmas. Very few amendments have been adopted in the Commission, because there is already the idea that the maneuver will be distorted with the maxi amendment. According to the journalistic shots there are no taxes, but since July there will be: they are micro taxes that, put together, represent costs for families. There are the famous ethical taxes, on which we have already expressed ourselves before. I believe that on a budget such as that of the Italian State, which has little room for manoeuvre, there being fixed costs - salaries, pensions, health care, general purchases, maintenance of the structure - what is questionable, discretionary is given by the few billions that must be faced. However, we need a general view in a budget and we need to have the courage to make specific choices. Everything revolves around the unleashing of VAT clauses (23 billion euros): clauses that are essentially defused through an increase in public debt of 16 billion, with 5 billion taxes in the draft budget law - there are, there are figures and, therefore, not objectionable - 5 billion in the tax decree-law, 3 billion famous fight against evasion. As far as expenditure is concerned: 23 billion - as I have already said - only to deal with the clauses, 3 billion tax wedges. Better than nothing! The VAT clauses in the three-year period are next year and the next year: either we invent a system to face them once and for all - and we sell the jewelry at home - or else they will persecute us forever, or we increase VAT, with the negative consequences we know about consumption. Or we still find the system of predicting lower outputs or higher revenue. For me there is a third choice, that of giving power to investment and the productive economy. However, I do not see investment - and this is beyond the announcements -: there are 150 million less for ANAS and 400 million less for Ferrovie, while one billion less goes for the Development and Cohesion Fund, just to mention the most important figures. The works blocked for about 62 billion - I think they are more - continue to be blocked. They say: "We will see, we will do, we will analyze," but, in the meantime, everything is still and just a little rain and wind to block Italy. As far as the manufacturing economy is concerned - perhaps it is destiny, it is a cycle of the West - there are too many crises. That of the former Ilva has been dealt with in a somewhat artisan way, but perhaps it is offensive and it is better then to say in an amateur way. I think - and I address myself to the Undersecretary Castelli - that in certain negotiations we must bring experts. Perhaps I would take a herd of cattle, once, who made contracts: it was enough for him to see an animal to judge it. If you bring with you a sensal of cattle, he would see who you are in front of and understand what a person he is, whether he mocks you or whether he can treat you. The crisis of the former Ilva, however, is a serious issue and we cannot say that for Taranto we will do more universities, more hospitals and things like that: but on which budget? With what numbers? As far as Alitalia is concerned, it had to be given years ago. Whether the choices were left or right, I don't care. There was no industrial plan, it came out later. We had a little joke in the papers. There are also other serious crisis situations, such as those involving Auchan, Whirlpool - I think it has not been resolved - recently Safilo in Friuli or, again, the multinational Mahle in Piedmont, a company that has two branches, one in Saluzzo and one in La Loggia. Banks have crazy redundancies for a number of reasons: Unicredit will start and then follow the others. The banks have the big problem of negative interests and then the managers - those who, as my friend Riccardo Ruggeri says, are always tanned, they all have the briefcase, they speak a little 'of English and use slides - as soon as they arrive, the first thing they say is that, in order to fix the budget, you have to fire. It's too easy. Banks have the problem of redundancies, they have non-performing loans (NPLs), while Brussels says over and over that they have a limit of ownership of public securities. However, we have said yes to the ESM, which also includes this. Inflation is unfortunately not there: if it were there, it would help to pay the debt. In fact, we're in deflation. The public debt is about 2 500 billion, although - as I have said before in this House - it is even more, in my opinion, because the tax credits of taxpayers, which amount to tens of billions, must also be included in it. I don't know the amount, but there's a lot on the nose. Then there are the commercial debts of the public administration and so on. I would also like to mention the local authorities, since I come from that world. Subtracting resources from the municipal solidarity fund, for which the other municipalities pay, we have again inserted the contribution to mergers for 30 million, so as to put in place 2019 and 2018 - it had not been planned - with 15 million per year. However, if the mergers of the municipalities are made to save money, what contribution do they need? They don't need the contribution, they save. Then there is the issue of the simplification of small municipalities. Just this morning mayors called me, telling me that they can no longer make models, they can no longer make ordinary administration where there is an employee or two, having to work for bureaucracy. Good is the maintenance of the capital contribution. Unfortunately in the municipalities and provinces there is the problem of the current part: maybe there is the money for the capital part, but there are those for the current part (maintenance of roads, schools and so on). This is a difficult concept to get into the common mentality and explain to people. Some mayors tell me they'd have money to make investments, but not to do the routine maintenance of the roads. In conclusion, in my opinion and in the opinion of many - as the newspapers say - taxes are there and will be there. The debt increases, the companies close and, for public works, we will see. We are no longer talking about the problem of Minister Thirty's house, it is not a trend and I do not know whether it is forbidden to talk about it. Someone continues to talk about ius soli or ius culturae: continue so that's okay. I wonder what perception certain parties in society in which they live have. Just say live Greta, live the sardines and we also allocate 200,000 euros for the centenary of the Italian Communist Party? If you want to allocate them, you pay for them. Forza Italia cannot express a positive opinion, and not without it: on the facts we would have liked to see a more general view of the changes that are not there. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u35	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the conclusion of the Calvary that is leading to the conclusion of the senate process of the maneuver with which the Italians will be crossed; a period of forty days during which daily in the government squabble, held together exclusively to go against someone (against the League, against Salvini) without having a true long-term planning, the political groups of the starred Left played them of godly reason. In the late morning of yesterday, after the night marathon of the Budget Commission, the regurgitations of the Fascism of the Left came out towards the end of the sitting when, in front of all those who are witnessing it, some senators, including Ferrazzi and D'Alfonso, verbally attacked the rapporteurs, the Presidency and colleagues of the majority of purpose; even more shameful is if to put all this into practice, among many, someone who was President of a Region. All this was finally seasoned and sealed with photo shoots repairing, adorned with hugs and smiles, in the same way as when hiding the garbage under the carpet so that no one can see, but that then you can feel for the smell that emanates. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I remember well how in the program "Le Hyene" Senator Taverna threw from the stage invective against the members of the Democratic Party with words impossible to quote in the Senate, apostrophoning them with terms replaced by the program "Le Hyenas" such as: precious friends, you are pearls. Those words have now become: we must govern, and all this for the chair, against Salvini. Coming to the contents of the maneuver I would like to start, as always, from examples of my territory, from my Verona, because it is a reality that I can touch with my hand, but of course similar examples exist throughout the national territory. I greet the mayor of Nogara, a community on which an important company insists, the production site of Coca-Cola. I greet all the workers, workers and managers I have met outside this context; truckers, logistics companies and various representatives of the induced. The plant of Nogara, in the province of Verona, represents an important resource for the economic and occupational development of the territory of the lower Verona and the Veneto Region; there are more than 2,400 direct and indirect jobs generated in the Region thanks to the activity of the site and more than 5,800 people whose working income depends partially or totally on the factory of Nogara. Inaugurated in 1975, it has become, thanks to continuous investments, the first site for production capacity in Europe. I propose that the so-called sugar tax be re-examined with the amendments that will be discussed in the Chamber on Monday, on the basis of the reasons put forward by the Italian Association of Non-Alcoholic Beverage Manufacturers (Assobibe), which I do not quote in full so as not to prolong. However, the estimates related to the introduction of a tax on soft drinks in Italy lead to a decrease of 10,692 jobs; a decrease in sales of 30%, corresponding to a reduction of 740 million euros; a decrease in VAT revenues of 127 million euros and 196 million euros for the reduction of tax revenues from labour and income. Small and medium-sized enterprises would suffer the most serious and least sustainable effects - around 80% would shift from a profit to a loss, with a negative operating result - of the consequent import of sugared beverages at very low costs from abroad, which, even if taxed, would have competitive prices due to the poor quality and poor control of products. The most deprived Italians would lose their lives, those who cannot afford sugary drinks that would become more expensive. This government, with its majority, could give rise to another misfortune, such as that of Ilva, for the many companies that could close. Climbing on mirrors during the budget session, the majority even said that the sugar tax is intended to protect health, mentioning diabetics: scandalous statement, because then we should tax the gianduiotti, the husbands, the babas, the Sicilian cannoli and all the products of our Italian pastry. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Mallegni]] In reality all this confirms the inability of the Government to carry out a policy of development of the Country, being able only to put its hands in the pockets of the Italians to make the accounts square. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I add another example, always of my Verona, and I also take the opportunity to greet the mayor of San Giovanni Lupatoto. I would like to refer to the case - recalled by the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" in an article of 22 November 2018 - of Melegatti, a historical company in Verona, with one hundred and twenty-five years of life. I quote from the article: The Melegatti is reborn for the third time in two years and prepares to bring the pandori back to supermarkets for Christmas thanks, in part, to a production line installed in a "secret" Venetian company (the one owned by San Giovanni Lupatoto is in reorganization these days) and to the mother yeast saved by Matteo Peraro and Davide Stupazzoni, two employees who have kept him alive - free of charge - in the last year of crisis. Today earning a spontaneous campaign of social networks that push to reward them with the appointment to Knights of labor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This was followed by a marathon made up of simple or famous people to help this Veronese company that represented the Italian production fabric - of companies there are many in Italy - a company in which the symbiosis between employees and workers is unique and is a case of excellence in the rest of Europe. You, in fact, in the majority of companies, always see entrepreneurs as thieves to whom to impose taxes and to be threatened with handcuffs. "There is a risk that these taxes will weigh on the industry system without really changing people's habits," said the brave entrepreneur from Vicenza Giacomo Spezzapria. They are hidden taxes more similar to VAT; the consequences of green taxes worry Italian companies. They certainly do not facilitate the work of entrepreneurs, but make it more difficult. Entrepreneurs therefore hope that common sense will be used by politicians; common sense - I add - which is missing from the starry left. Then there is the maintenance of the tax on maps and filters, already in force at this time, which will give rise to the black market and subtract 800 million per year from the state coffers. It will always be the most deprived, those who cannot afford the pack of cigarettes and therefore have to roll up the cigarette. I close my well-known controversy and criticism by thanking the whole of Parliament, which has honoured the women's world for a very much desired measure. I thank the Government, I thank the rapporteurs, the Femicide Commission and all the political leaders at the level of the Budget Commission and also at the level of the House, for accepting my proposal to make the national anti-violence number compulsory in all public places. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Fantetti]] I had presented a bill shared with the then majority of Government (the parent Romeo, Senator Patuanelli and Senator Maiorino). I put myself at risk knowing that in the budget law I would lose the paternity of the bill, but in our territory there is a serious emergency. What we have given is a good signal, also for the recent anniversary of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. I thank everyone and, in the belief that I am a spokesperson for this whole House, I wish all women a merry Christmas. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, PD and IV-PSI Groups and Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u38	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second year that Parliament is almost excluded from the definition of budgetary manoeuvre, which is normally the most important law of the whole year. I hope it's the last year. The government's institutionally incorrect lordship stifles the debate, prevents normal dialectic with Parliament and reduces its democratic connotations. I would like to thank my colleagues who have worked in the Budget Committee, at the limits of human bearability. I hope it doesn't happen again. The debate and debate here in this House would have been a desirable thing. The nature of the government alliance is sloppy and uncertain. The budget law takes shape with an unprecedented delay. We are at the limits of democracy when, beyond the changing actors, one - the 5 Star Movement - remains boldly the same; we are at the limits of constitutional freedom because the principles on which our democracy is founded are affected. I believe that the frames from the struggle continue among you of the majority and from the arrivals of vetoes and vetoes show that it has actually lost its mother line in order to kick the budgetary difficulties and bring us back to a condition of normality. The country is lost and feels unguided. Play with each other, believing that the removal of a tax, assumed on the political merit of a member of the Government, absolves you of total irresponsibility. You say you sterilized VAT, but with your attitude you are sterilizing Parliament and, above all, Italy as a whole. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] As for the substance, I would like to remind you of some of the issues. Do you think that with little change can be solved the problem of the drama of school buildings that in 70 percent of cases - I repeat, 70 percent of cases - as has recently found a study of the Agnelli Foundation, pours into conditions of danger? Let's all think about what is happening these days: the earthquake zones, the seismic swarms also present in my land and everywhere in Italy. A scientist recently published a study that warns the whole of Italy because there could be The Big One, that is, a great earthquake could hit the whole country. We also think of our children and grandchildren in unsafe schools. These are the fundamental themes, and not the few change you gave here and there. And what about the Mezzogiorno, which has also ended up in the shadows of this financial manoeuvre? The South is no longer a priority. And yet, you think it's important, because sometimes even President Conte says he'll talk about the South and do things in his favor. In the meantime, however, words remain only intentions. The South is not your top priority. However, given the decline in the population and an unstable balance of decline, this budgetary manoeuvre should already have contained the ingredients for a revival of the Mezzogiorno. From 2015 to 2019 we have already lost 310,000 people, many of them young. Everyone called the young people, but let us also think of the fifty-fifties and fifty-five years of age who lose their jobs, of which no one ever talks and who are even more at risk than others. I hope, therefore, that you will give them attention. [[Brusio.]] Look - and I am addressing some of my colleagues who are in a moment of rebellion - I am not in the majority, but in the opposition, and there are so many amendments that I have tabled and which relate to a number of areas, but not one has been accepted. The most serious aspect is that they do not even come to this House, so that they can inform the people we are interested in on the outside: that is the serious thing. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Having said that, I believe that with the impoverishment of human capital the opportunities for growth in the South are zero. Immediately immediate policies are needed which the Government does not propose. The lack of work in the South arises mainly from a problem of industrial production, that is from the lack of a production of goods and services capable of overcoming the constraints of the local markets and competing globally. Special attention should therefore be paid to avoiding depopulation. In this regard, I have tabled a draft law which is intended to encourage inland areas in order to avoid depopulation. I hope that this majority will take this into account and perhaps - why not - discuss it. This is what is lacking in your strategy: a development policy for the South that would be useful for the whole country. Today the North is no longer the locomotive and its growth no longer drives the rest of the country. [[Brusio.]] I always listen to everyone with politeness and I hope you do the same. I've always been sitting here listening to everyone, because I think listening is fundamental, so don't bother talking. Mr President, I apologize, I should have asked you to silence some voices that you are disturbing. North therefore no longer activates development in other inland areas. On the contrary, the development of the South, if the Government gave a sign of true attention, would spread in all the territories of the Country. This would be a necessary policy in terms of both efficiency and fairness. And what about your idle dispute over the putting aside of the current motorway dealerships? As you argue, bridges fall, people are afraid, and this, as in Liguria, depresses the economy. And how depressing that economy is! The Ligurian coast, stormed by Lombards and Piedmontese, remains in these deserted hours, because people are afraid. That torn land would need incentives before dozens and dozens of activities close their doors. People won't even come for these parties, because bridges have fallen and because on the other side, on the provincial roads... The government representative, instead of talking and being distracted, maybe he could give me some attention and take a few notes. Instead, I see you keep talking. Then when you're done... [[Call the president back.]] I said that Liguria, in the same way as other parts of Italy (but to which attention has been paid), needs incentives, because at this moment that land is isolated, has no bridges and the provincial roads are disadvantaged, as already mentioned in this House, the Provinces have yes delegations, but not the funds to intervene. That land is really experiencing dramatic moments. Now, for the big issues, from Ilva to the highways, not knowing what to do, you entrust yourself to the decisions of the judiciary - heard, heard - whose institutional task is far from that; even if relying on it, as demonstrated by the judgment on the blast furnace closed in Taranto, can cause dramatic problems for the Taranto workers, as it is happening. Then let's talk about the elimination of the prescription. Without the reasonable duration of the trial, it will be life imprisonment for the innocent. I repeat, life sentence for the innocent. What about the 160 disputes opened at MISE that demonstrate the inadequacy of the young former leader of the 5 Stars, perhaps also for this repaired to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And what about the objections that the European Commission has expressed to you, highlighting the inadequacy of the manoeuvre in relation to the debt reduction parameters? Too many taxes, then, and with demagogic choices about tax evasion, which leave the time they find. Basically, a sum of ingredients put at random without a thread. This is because of the logic of Plato's winged horses, to which this coalition resembles: everyone looks at himself and no auriga is able to steal them by pointing the right way. The horses of this government, indeed the buzzards, are now out of control. It is difficult, in fact it is impossible to govern this way. Even the most knowledgeable of you are realizing it. Between you and the country with its dramatic needs, we choose our people. That is why we say no to this maneuver. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u39	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although it was not at all obvious to invest in this budget law, since we have significantly cut taxes by averting the increase in VAT, a budget of 23 billion that would have taken place on 1 January, we have also invested. I must say with pride that we have invested mainly in health care. After years of cuts and financial surgery to the detriment of the right to health, finally the route is reversed: we have increased by 2 billion euros the National Health Fund and another 2 billion have been allocated for the health building and the technological modernization that, with our agenda, we extend also to the extra hospital building, in order to strengthen the primary care, the intermediate care and the needs of appropriate care settings and dedicated to chronicity, disability and palliative care because our country urgently needs to reorganize and tighten the links of the territorial assistance network. We have finally abolished the superticket, i.e. the share of participation at the cost of outpatient specialized care services for non-exempt recipients. The superticket, introduced by the Berlusconi Government in 2011 as an additional non-compulsory tax, had been passed as a temporary measure - almost ten years have passed - that should have helped the regions to manage a health system in failure, but it had no other effect than to affect the costs of the benefits representing an obstacle to the access to the cures. This is an unfair tax that made some public services more expensive than private ones and often involved giving up treatment itself. The superticket was now applied entirely only in the less virtuous regions, thus increasing regional disparities and inequalities between citizens, which are one of the main critical issues of Italian health care, resulting in the paradox of having to pay more for a poor quality service. The same fund dedicated to the reduction of the superticket was divided among the Regions according to historical expenditure and not to needs, guaranteeing the provision of health services only in the regions that had already historically provided it and, therefore, denying the right to care to those who historically had not cared for. All of this will be filed soon. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have dedicated a fund of EUR 235 million to the purchase of sanitary equipment for general medical doctors in order to improve the process of taking care and reduce the phenomenon of waiting lists. With our amendment we have also extended this fund to pediatricians of free choice and planned a strengthening of telemedicine routes and transmission of information flows between general medical doctors, Regions and the Ministry of Health through a unique management software. We have renewed the Fund for innovative medicines, both oncology and rare diseases, by EUR 1 billion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe, in fact, that investing in innovation and therapies increasingly personalized is the main way to reconcile the appropriateness and sustainability of the National Health System, also using methods of bargaining the price of the drug also innovative, as has been done for chimeric antigen treatments reception T cell (Car-T) with the payment by result. In addition, in terms of the development of health care personnel, we have stabilised health risks by extending the extension to the whole of 2019. We have increased specialized training contracts by 1,000 units, we have allocated a million euros to finally make the law establishing the national network of cancer registers operational, and we have dedicated one million euros to the new cooperatives confiscated from crime for social projects in the care of minors, drug addicts, subjects with autistic spectrum disorder and women victims of violence. I want to thank all my colleagues who have spent and spend every day with me so that something will change in this wonderful country that is going through such a delicate and difficult time. This country is famous in the world for its health system, where it doesn't count on the social state, because to access treatment it is enough to be an individual, as enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution. This country, cradle of culture and extraordinary talents, must see us all united here in the classrooms and palaces, but also out there, from North to South, bound by a sense of belonging without borders; a strong and ethically firm country, that makes us feel clearly and undoubtedly that the good of each of us is also the good of the other. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u41	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u42	Mr President, I warmly welcome you, the Government and your colleagues here. In these days of debate on the budgetary maneuver, which for the second time, in view of my first parliamentary experience, I have the opportunity, the honour and the opportunity to debate in this House, I have heard a number of important references to individual measures, to those which are defined as small brands and which are bestowed here and there for the Peninsula, each for its own interests - legitimate, we would miss other - and then get those eight to ten lines of article in the newspapers, legitimately, at the college of belonging. However, I would not like to lose sight of the framework elements, as well as the portrait of this budgetary manoeuvre. The first element, of course, is that we arrived - but last year too, it does not seem to me to have been better done - at the end of the year with a request for confidence in Parliament, because last year too, but this year in particular, given the latest landslides, at least according to the news reports (then we will probably see them in this House too) approving hundreds or thousands of amendments in this House would probably have caused more harm than benefit to the proposers themselves. The salient elements, in the light of which frankly every time I try to understand if this Assembly, this Parliament and this Government are attentive to what happens in the country, represent a particularly worrying situation: there is 1.8% less of industrial production; there are 158 open tables for business crises; there are 2,5 million unemployed, 13.4 million inactive, a submerged economy of 192 billion, 132,000 brains on the run, of which 50 percent young and a third graduates; the value of the properties throughout the national territory is falling (oscilla between 28 and 58 percent); the municipalities impose to the citizens, in addition to the taxes deliberated in Parliament, 36.4 billion taxes (IMU, additional IRPEF and TARI); of the blocked yards, that would have to be unblocked with the so-called unblocked yards, not even one has moved. But this is not enough. In addition to Parliament, which already puts us in its hands, and the Government, which puts us in the same position as its own, the Ministries, too, in the bureaucratic structure, play their part. It is news of a few days ago that, you think, in a wonderful country, kissed by the sun, with three quarters of the cultural heritage of the world, in which art, culture, ingenuity predominate and painters and sculptors can dedicate themselves to the future and look forward, with art galleries distributed throughout the Italian peninsula, well, since the 20th of November the gallerists have to subject to adequate verification who enters the store and buys a piece. Think about what happens when you go to open a bank account. If you'll excuse me, I remember that beautiful movie, "Johnny Toothpick," when Benigni says: "Ai siciliani ask him everything, but not bananas." Remember that he thought they were shooting at him for bananas, but instead they shot him because he looked like his mobster. Well, the same thing is happening: go to the bank to open a bank account and there begins the tragedy, because they ask you everything; you must be prepared, even with the blood tests of the family, grandparents, uncles and grandchildren. But now the art galleries too! Therefore, in the country where art is the master, the gallerist must submit to those who enter to buy a piece of 300 euros for proper verification. And be quick to bring it, or you, gallerist, do you know what you have to do? You have to report to the authority, you have to report your client, who came to buy the artwork, to the Finance Guard. Sounds normal to me. Everyone does. It's as if, when one goes to the restaurant and happens to drop his napkin or do something he doesn't have to do, the restaurantman calls the city police to report his client because he's dirty the tablecloth. If this was a joke, one could have two laughs. But all this is added to a particular point of view. The other day, in Commission 8a, we were talking about the opinion on the tax decree, because tax decree and budget maneuver go hand in hand, at least in this country. All my friends living abroad ask me why Italy makes a tax decree every year changing the rules, so that the previous year or the following year the entrepreneur never knows what to write about the tax return or what to bring into deduction, whether to buy one thing rather than another. I told him that it is an all-Italian thing, one of the specifics that we have, indeed we boast about it every year change the rules, because we want people to be quick and not settle on their laurels. Speaking of this measure, I have made a reasoning concerning the application of the IMU on capital goods, because I believe that, if it is on capital goods, it must be brought into full deduction, but this is not there. I referred to the great invention of the elimination of 21% dry coupons on stores. 12:03 p.m. (Following MALLEGNI). I give you some news, so at least I will also tell my colleague Misiani. Let's be careful, because from next year on everything that happened before the introduction of the dry coupon will happen again: we will collect less because there will be again rents in black. Somebody don't say, "Evador, in jail." You've allowed yourself not to pay taxes! Of course, if I rent a fund at 1,000 euros a month and 500-600 go away to pay the IRPEF, instead of 21%, as it used to be, it's a problem. You know perfectly well that the levying of 21% of the dry coupon has allowed the emergence of a number of leases, which have increased revenue, not decreased. If you then put on, like icing on the cake, taxation of light cannabis or active ingredient 05 THC, the synthesis is that we are really those who want to kill companies, destroy progress and try to water down ideas through a cane. Let's make them smoke, take something back, then forget and pay taxes quietly. I conclude on a matter that frightened me and, I must say, alarmed. You can find it in the Reports of the Senate 8th Commission. At this request, a colleague of the Democratic Party, of whom I obviously do not mention the name for the sake of Homeland, told me, almost indignant: But where do you think we take these rules? They come to us from the Finance Guard, the Revenue Agency and the Court of Auditors. And here I thought they were state control structures and not imposing the political agenda on the government. It's embarrassing! I'll finish... president. You really have to finish, Senator Mallegni. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Of course, Mr President. In any case, I would like to thank my colleagues who spent the night on the Commissions, but to tell the truth I would not have accepted the alms of the majority, I would not have accepted anything of what was approved of our proposals, because, in these cases, we have to get up and leave. I say this with great respect, but you do not deserve, colleagues, that there is someone who dialogues with you and has the will, as I have done and as others have done, to dialogue with you. This is really something I will never forgive myself for. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u43	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u44	Mr President, budget law is a political act, because it makes choices and directs the State's resources to one measure or another. The first choice of the budget law for 2020 is the sterilization of the safeguard clauses, amounting to 23 billion euros, without remodulation. More could have been done, but this choice was made, right. I am always happy to listen to my colleagues in the League, who speak in a very colourful language, but we have exactly avoided that, with such an animated intercourse - I use only this term - compared to Europe, the increase in VAT would risk, which would have led to the increase of expenditure for Italians and Italians and repercussions for professionals, who are so dear to you and care for all of us, and for companies. The second political choice is investment in the green economy. In essence, we must change our economic model and also our personal habits, towards a sustainable economy, given the scarce resources of the Earth, as the younger generations ask us. This does not mean, however, starting from the increase in taxes - as you know, this is a battle that has mainly carried out Italy Viva - but we must start from the investments and the accompaniment, both of companies and of the workforce, in the conversion to a new economic model. The debate in Europe on the break-up of green investment from the calculation of the deficit is our battle and it is the battle of a government that, head-on, can go to interloquire with Europe. Changing the economic model and investing in the green economy will mean creating more jobs in the coming years. We need more investment and we need to unlock the yards and therefore we also call on the opposition forces, who have spoken here of hydrogeological disruption, to join our shock plan to unlock the yards and, therefore, to invest, to restart the economy and create jobs. We need more investment and less citizenship income if it is not accompanied by a serious policy of job creation. Measures on industry and training 4.0 and dual apprenticeships are positive. I regret, personally and for my Group, that no additional resources have been found, for EUR 10 million, to stabilize all workers in ANPAL services, border professionals, who work in employment centres and who, for an unjust paradox, help people to retrain and find jobs, even though they themselves are precarious. This battle, for me and for my group, will continue. Another displeasure stems from the fact that no funds have been provided for the social shock absorbers of the call centers, a sector that we know is in great suffering, and for a very important measure, introduced by the previous government, such as the expansion contract, which holds together early retirements, recruitment plans and training, constituting an active policy measure, which can work: on this we will continue our battle, on the occasion of the next measures. Another important political choice is to increase resources for disability, starting with an ad hoc fund and increasing resources for non-self-sufficiency, the right to work fund and the contribution to equal schools for pupils with disabilities. Each of us is a value, each of us is a resource, all the more so if he is an elder, if he is not self-sufficient or if he is a person with disabilities. Each of us, with the lengthening of life, can become not self-sufficient. Non-self-sufficiency is the theme of our time. We would like to thank the speakers who, as parliamentarians, we had with the disability associations, starting with the most representative associations - FISH and FAND - for doing a very fruitful job. We will continue to fight, like Italy Viva, to allocate resources to increase funds for laws such as the "after" of us, for autism and caregivers. In the Senate, in fact, a bill on caregivers was presented. 75% of caregivers are women and Minister Bonetti, in a recent hearing, has undertaken to move forward to resolve this issue. Resources aren't enough. We all know that there are resources in the non-self-sufficiency fund for regional independent living projects. These projects must no longer be experimental but must become structural as the non-self-sufficiency fund, which became structural in 2016. We need to move forward, for example, to make a plan for non-self-sufficiency with existing funds and take up a measure already contained in the income of inclusion. We need to solve the problem of access and perhaps an evaluation system that is different from what we have, that puts the person at the centre, with his character and well-being. We must link the non-self-sufficiency and all the resources that we commit with this draft budget law to new professional figures. Yesterday I read of the 21 professional figures that will be typical of the near future. One of these figures is very beautiful: it is that of the speakers and walkers who will help our elders and people who are not self-sufficient to have a life and socio-relational support, because it is in that direction that we must go. Everyone has the right to an independent life and therefore to someone who helps support it, because each of us is different from the other and the other from us. That is the basis of the report. We believe that in this draft budget law there are very important policy measures, but the draft law before us does not close a path, but opens it. Our battles will continue, for all Italian citizens and citizens, from the reduction of taxes on sugar and plastic to issues related to non-self-sufficiency. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u46	Mr President, in my speech I will concentrate on my island. I am sure that the national economy comes from twenty local economies. The sum of the twenty local economies - or diseconomies - produces the national economy of which the budget is concerned. I would like to thank my fellow Members from Forza Italia who have gone before me, and it seems to me to be a comprehensive analysis of the pros and cons of this budgetary manoeuvre vis-à-vis their territories, but not only that they have examined in general the effects that such a manoeuvre will have on the economy. As I said, I focus on the part that, as regards my island, could have better influenced the national economy, playing an active and proactive role, as well as of local interest, in order to create economies in Sardinia. I have tabled two amendments on Sardinia, of which I have also referred to the present Undersecretary Misiani, which concern territorial continuity in the broadest sense and, in a more particular sense, territorial continuity linked to the ongoing process of energy development in Sardinia with reference to metanization. The metanization for Sardinia means, dear undersecretary, 400 million years of overload for the island for the production of energy and an incidence that varies, according to the statistical data, between 500 and 700 euros per family. This means that it is a problem that has a strong impact on the family economy and the more general economy of Sardinia. For about fifteen years we have caressed the solution of the problem through the GALSI. The acronym GALSI stands for Gasduct Algeria Sardinia Italy, a project that was part of the European energy development projects (I think it was the fifth or sixth project). It was, however, tragically shipwrecked three years ago, when it was eliminated from European projects, probably (in fact, certainly) due to problems of stability and security in the North Africa area. Since then for Sardinia, which had participated, certainly with a minority share, in the development of the GALSI project (it seems to me that the regional finance had contributed about 11%), the abyss has opened. There was no alternative to having methane through a European project. Sardinia, when leaving the GALSI, presented several solutions for the metanization of the Region and also projects for the implementation of the gas distribution throughout the island. The coastal deposits, supplied through the methane ships, no longer the gas pipeline coming from Algeria, were therefore the solution for the collection of gas in Sardinia. The dorsal nets also represented a methane distribution system throughout the island. Of the benefits I have already said before, but, in addition to the benefits I have mentioned, there are also the advantages for the present industrial realities, which, especially in Sulcis, are highly energy-intensive industries, whose thermal energy is badly produced by coal. Methaneisation would have been a very interesting step forward for the production of thermal energy, as well as for an improvement in the environment, as methane is certainly less polluting than coal. Very interesting prospects, including industrial development, were opened up at the latter and at all those energy companies, which saw the possibility of solving their own problem, which was precisely the cost of energy to be competitive in an international environment. I am referring, for example, to the aluminium industry. My concern, although I am aware of the opening of national tables, which are interested in the problem, is the Green New Deal, which is projecting Europe towards the least fossil consumption, towards a green energy which, however, at this point runs the risk of blocking programmes for the metanization of the island. I just want to remind you that the pipelines that are supposed to transport methane gas, which we hope will arrive in Sardinia soon, are such that they could one day transport other natural gases. Among these, we hope there will be the possibility of transporting hydrogen. I return to the maneuver, because otherwise I am told that I am coming out of the sown; it is not so. I have tabled two amendments to the maneuver, and I am sure that due to their complexity and the haste with which work was to be completed in the Commission, it is likely that they have not been examined there. I have already proposed them in a question addressed to the Government, but what interests me is to assert the principle of representing a strong problem for the regional economy, which wants to get out of a phase of continuous welfare. You see, the Sardinian one is a proud people: he does not want to live on alms, but to be an active part in contributing to the development of our nation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Linesu]] In order to do this, however, it must start from the same starting point, and we think that methane is such a balance for Sardinia that, solved the energy problem, we could really help to reduce the form of welfare that still exists in Sardinia to give life to a valid economy of which the entire national territory will benefit. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u47	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before speaking on the subject of this budgetary manoeuvre, allow me to renew our wish to the new President of the Constitutional Court, Professor Marta Cartabia, who is the first woman to assume this important and significant role for the institutional life of our country, also in this Chamber and in the Group of the Democratic Party. The first words spoken by President Cartabia were indeed a message of strong impact for the whole country: a country where murders decrease but feminicides grow - said the new President - is not a civil country. Well, for these words I sincerely want to thank you, for immediately raising the attention you deserve on the subject of violence against women, and especially for saying that the problem concerns the civilization of a country, the civilization of Italy, and therefore its level and its ability to culture, integration, its ability to make live, recognize and promote differences at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, I have started with a subject that may seem a little distant, but it is not and actually helps me to make a comfortable argument. I have heard many speakers in this House, as it should be. At this moment, in this maneuver, we are discussing the resources for next year that will be allocated to the most significant measures; but within a maneuver, as is natural, let us also try to establish the roadmap of what for us is the direction towards which we want to push the country, the idea of country that we have in mind. Well, I think it is not by chance that this maneuver paints an idea of a country that is profoundly different from what we have seen in the maneuver of the previous majority of government. It was a particularly difficult budgetary session: we came from a heavy legacy - allow me - not so much because of the issue of safeguard clauses, which also had their weight, of course, but precisely because of the idea of a country. A self-referential country, bent on itself, where one tried more to ride problems and blow on difficulties, but very little to give an answer to those difficulties. Little or very little was possible to identify an idea of development and where the country wanted to be taken. This was the heaviest legacy that we have been called upon to face with this maneuver. We have done this with seriousness, with calmness, with a great sense of responsibility. That is why I thank everyone: first of all the members of the Budget Commission, the Government, the majority, but also the oppositions that have allowed us to reach this point. We have done this with courage to really come back to the definition of a new model of development, a development which, in my opinion, has chosen to take a very clear path. A few days ago Governor Visco recalled that the growth of our country will depend largely on the level of participation of women in public life and the labour market. And so, if there is a subject that today requires a solid proposal that looks forward to the future with courage, a proposal made up of clear principles and objectives, but also effective instruments and resources to implement them, this is undoubtedly represented by the capacity and policies that we will put in place to promote the participation of women in an effective way and not only in a formal and stated manner. I think, in particular, of the gender gap and the difficulties for women to enter, to remain, but above all, to advance in their career paths in the world of work under the same conditions as men. But I also think about how much it takes to protect women from harassment in the workplace and in working relationships. Let us remember that work for women is the main instrument of autonomy and, therefore, of affirmation of their being and their dignity. Minimizing that kind of freedom means compromising choices of freedom. That is why we have done well to strengthen and extend the network of assistance and protection for women in the world of work. We have done so with many interventions, even in this budget law. In many cases women who ask for help are not alone, yet so many times it is not so and it is difficult to attend and give a concrete answer to their question and to their need. This budget law then does a first thing, perhaps at a low cost, but in my opinion it has a real impact: this is an important choice. As the colleague of the League mentioned earlier - and we would like to thank him for the fundamental collaboration between the majority and opposition on such sensitive issues - we have chosen to oblige all public administrations that provide direct services to users, public establishments, local health units and pharmacies to expose in a visible way the national green number anti- stalking and anti-violence. It is an important step, I repeat, which gives direction and marks a road map. Policies for women, however, means many things, even different things, which require different interventions and instruments, both at the legislative level and at the operational level. All these instruments will be more effective, but if behind there is a unified vision of where we want to take the country and of what role women must have in this march, a progressive vision that is not afraid to entrust to women a central weight in the future development, to which our country must obviously tend. I am certainly talking about economic growth, but also and above all about the future of rights and the degree of civilization of the country. I will come soon to the concrete instruments included in the maneuver, but let me say that only if we really believe that women's freedom, autonomy and rights should be defended and extended in all places of society - in the family, in the street, in the workplace - can we then find resources to implement policies in favour of women: only in this way will we really combat all forms of discrimination and inequality. I remember something simple. There was a phase, until a few months ago, in which, in addition to the Pillon counter-reform, it was intended to distribute a piece of land to the women who were at home and who had their third child, as well as proposing the abolition of Law No. 194 of 1978. I first heard Senator Pillon say that he should relaunch Law No. 194: we say that we should relaunch Law No. 194, but we have seen it challenged in the previous months and it was a risk, it was dangerous. It was also proposed to reopen the closed houses. I think we need to file that country idea. To think that women should go back to being mothers and wives is not a wrong battle for women; it is a wrong battle for the country, for its degree of civilization, progress and emancipation. [[Applause from the PD Group]] At that political stage the resources against violence were few. Today we have made courageous choices, with EUR 1 million for 2020, with particular reference to orphans of domestic crimes: I recall that this measure has been waiting for a long time. Again, €4 million has been provided for the anti-violence plan every year: it is a measure that speaks above all to centres, shelter houses, which are often without resources. It is a problem of resources, as well as of the ways and times with which we will come to give these resources. That money, in the future anti-violence plan, could also serve to recognize the places of women, where a gender culture is established, which is the first and most important battle to combat violence. We have also chosen to invest in education, students and teachers in schools. We have allocated resources in the draft budget law so that this battle really comes to school. The provisions contained in the maneuver will not be decisive; something else remains to be done and that is what awaits us in the coming year, but all that is in this maneuver is the son of the idea that, in order to affect the subject of violence, a concrete response must be built and it is not enough to shout at the emergency, but it is really necessary to influence education and prevention. That's the only way we're gonna win this fight. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u49	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u50	Mr President, good morning, everyone. [[Applause.]] Good morning to this House so, in this "resisting" the games are over, the market is closed and of course, when the markets are closed, banquets are taken away and people come home. What was to be done was done. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the two rapporteurs: to Senator Stefano, for his delicacy and grace, and to my extraordinary colleague Rivolta, who accompanied me in this new experience. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I come from the 8th Commission and when we passed in the minority I decided to leave it, because my intention was to put my hands on the procurement code and, since doing so meant putting a fairly substantial hand in it, having seen that it would be useless and unproductive, leaving reluctantly the colleagues who were with me (however we continue to see us), I decided to do this experience, which was very interesting. I say this because, although it is my first parliamentary term, I don't come from a very first-class political experience: I am an age-old person and this has allowed me to have good experiences with fairly complex budgets. Of course, I expected a budget and, above all, a programme and a series of very high-level meetings. Well, not that the people who belong to the Budget Commission are not - I would like to make it clear that they are all much more prepared than I am - but I have to say that, as they lasted, these four weeks, in which I went home only once, left me quite perplexed. Why? I will not go into the substance of everything that has been said and that has already been well explained, first, by those who have spoken of roads, who have spoken of one amendment, who of the other, who of the tax, of the surcharge, of the plastic tax and anything else. I'll leave it alone, and I'll take the credit for the arrangements. I would have expected a series of majority and minority meetings to build what is a tool that then falls on the lives of citizens and that did not happen. In fact, three weeks have passed between deconvicts and summons, summons and deconvicts, sit and stand, get up and sit down and above all with this ten-minute uncertainty. I learned what time is: ten minutes for me is ten minutes, perhaps because at a certain age ten minutes are important (after ten minutes you are already aged). Those ten minutes were actually 20. Even the expression "a little moment," said by the very nice President Pesco now has a meaning: a moment can be an hour like a day and of these moments I have spent, for three weeks, walking and doing things that I had never done and that have also cheered me up, because I could also see a little 'Rome. I could see Rome, I did the dye, I did the hair, I did all these things. They asked me, what are you doing? I'm budgeting. I realized that this budget was actually a series of "moments" and these "moments" then all conveyed themselves at a great time, which was Wednesday night. Wednesday night was the night of the long knives, the one where you arrived right at the end and these money scatters found their boxes. There was the mezzanine, where there is the Chamber of the 5th Commission, where there could not be passed, because there were about thirty journalists, and this little classroom, which is the House where the budget is created, in which we were about fifty. The air was missing, but it doesn't matter, because it lacks air and you realize that suddenly the brain doesn't work anymore, but you have to resist. So you're gonna open the window? You can't, because half of them are sick and you have to resist. The important thing is not to give up, because if you leave the place you take the amendment and if you part the amendment, you are screwed, because if you part the amendment on the territory, you are finished. In the middle of all this, there is a door outside, the door - allow me, Mr. Undersecretary - of the powerful. In front of that door there are a number of people who don't let you in, because there's the minister inside. I would need to talk to the Minister, but the answer is that you can't. Then you start to pass through the Undersecretaries, with everyone, right and left, but I need to talk to the government for a moment: you can't. In this role, undersecretary Malpezzi had great presence, who is not there and who last year threw a tome in Garavaglia (but Garavaglia is agile and has dodged it) and rightly, in his role as former teacher with the hands conserted, passed and said: you must be happy, you of the minority, because we approved you a billion euro for the State 36 Lecco-Cortina on two Regions, Veneto and Lombardy, that we do not govern. But, really, the budget, what is needed for Italy, is not made up of "marchettes," but it is made up of amendments, it is made up of positions that must serve the whole of Italy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is made of things that must serve not only to be in a newspaper. For the big political issues, we are in a newspaper. It took me two hours - after three weeks of "giaggiornamenti" - to say that the million euro that I need to drop the rock - I too made my "marchetta" - I need it because I don't want there to be any other warranty notices. I was told: "We'll see what we can do." I got so tired of Senator Stephen, he finally said, Don't worry, look: it passes, because you really broke me. It went well, but the budget is something else! The budget is these empty, full benches. The balance sheet is not to take a piece of paper and say: "What you did," "because Salvini did", "because you of the League", "because 2011, 2010 and 2013". The budget is the instrument... (Senator Biti makes a gesture with her hand). So you do it to your sister while I'm talking. So you do it to your sister! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise, if you want to do this, you turn around somewhere else or your partner. You don't do that to me when I'm talking. However, on returning to us, it is not the content of the budget that we are moving forward that is no longer good, it is its mode that needs to be changed. It's his approach that needs to be changed. Then, there may be a right-wing government or a left-wing government, big political issues that affect everyone, then, as a corollary, there must be a whole series of situations. The budget must be made up of respected meetings, it must be made up of classrooms where you breathe and it must be made of documents that can be readable. We deforested 4,000 square meters, because we used only paper, one sheet after another, which every ten minutes (the famous ten minutes) was no longer worth. We want to become modern, we want to make everything digital. We will also have the digital bill of exchange: today it can in debt on a computer, you can do whatever you want, it's fine, but why not put computers in a classroom and update the files instead of having flying cards? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's something else you could do. The time must be respected: minorities are minorities, minority groups, minorities politically, but they must have a respect that does not have to be: you touch this, a little bit and in this little you have to stay in it. Either it is or it is not: if an amendment is inadmissible today, it does not become admissible two hours later, or it is, or it is not. If there's money now, I'm here. If something's not right, it's not okay. I say then: all well, I do not go into the matter; last year to you, this year to us. However, we must make a serious reflection that allows us to face a law that is one of the most important instruments of the country, that then we descend on what is outside, because then there will be all the procedures and decrees that will have to be adopted, we will need many things before what we have established today becomes concrete. We need a rule that puts us in a position to deal with this fundamental and important instrument in the true sense of the word. Try, in a private company, to deal with the budget as we have dealt with it: there are rules that put you in. Try to deal with the budget of a condominium as we have faced it: the condominium administrator would be changed immediately. My hope, above all, is that the budget will really become an instrument for the Italians and will not simply result in a more or less fair, more or less acceptable, more or less concrete division. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u51	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u52	Mr President, I am pleased, because in this budgetary manoeuvre, thanks also to our contribution, we have managed to do good things for university, AFAM, school and culture. I'll list them quickly. For AFAM, we have increased by €1.5 million the resources for services and initiatives in favour of disabled pupils and with learning disabilities. We have provided 10 million euros for the refund for the non-introduction deriving from the no tax area. We have decided that 60% of the resources allocated to the great Human Technopole project are donated to projects chosen and shared by the world of national scientific research. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The world of scientific research needs to be valued and there is still work to be done. We have planned an increase from 16 million to 31 million in the State grant fund, because we firmly believe in the right to study as a right of equality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have ensured the continuity of teaching and specialized teachers for our students with disabilities, a measure that goes to add to the other measures for disability: we have guaranteed 1,000 places. There's still work to be done, we know that, but we're still doing something. In the world of culture we think that the great cultural fabric that is made up of so many small realities and institutions, so dear to the inhabitants of each place, even outside the great poles of attraction, must be exploited. We have therefore planned the establishment of a fund for the operation of small museums with resources of EUR 2 million from 2020, to ensure the operation and ordinary maintenance (there is still a national plan for ordinary maintenance and I say it first to ourselves and then to this Minister) and to ensure the continuity of use and the removal of architectural barriers. We have planned a fund to strengthen the promotion of Italian culture and language in the world, because from here pass the promotion of our Made in Italy, the construction of cultural bridges that destroy the narratives of hatred and racism that are taking too much foot in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is also through these measures that cooperation is made between all the centres for cultural, scientific and research promotion in the world. I am also particularly pleased with the establishment of the Fund for the recovery of state buildings of historical and cultural interest in the state of abandonment and for the redevelopment of abandoned industrial areas where there is a need for high-quality architectural artifacts. It is in fact by making an organic database, national, accessible and usable by local authorities, associations and all institutions that want to recover spaces to be used for various functions, that contrasts the consumption of soil and maintains our great artistic and architectural heritage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I will finish with two lines, because I have heard a huge castronery in this House, namely that the government puts young people's mouths at the mouth of reeds. The government does not put the reeds in the mouth of young people, but the same political force, the League, which tells us that we would like to put the reeds in the mouth of young people, would instead establish mininaja, so it would like to put the weapons in the hands of young people, and maybe it would also like to promote the culture of mojito instead of cane. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] These are two concrete things. So, again, we don't put canes in anyone's mouth. And we want to point this out, because this is a deformation and a mystification of a rule that instead is aimed at being the prelude to the valorization of a sector, that of industrial hemp, that in the past has been one of the pillars of the economy of this country, and that it would be good to recover in order to give new sap also to economic sectors and employment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u53	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are preparing to examine the budget law in this House, the most important measure for Parliament and, above all, for our country. A budget law we've been working on these weeks. Yesterday, at 11 a.m., he finished his journey in the Commission, with the long and intense work - I must say - of everyone, of the rapporteurs but also of all the parliamentary colleagues present, including the Government. It was an important job because it was admirably successful in giving the term of office to the rapporteurs. I remember last year this didn't happen, just to start putting the dots on the "i." It is to be considered a real miracle if we calculate that it has been prepared in a period of economic stagnation and with an initial obstacle of 23 billion euros in order to avoid the increase of the VAT: a heavy burden that would cost about 541 euros to the family of additional debts, also because the spread for the first months, indeed until mid-year, has been skyrocketing and has brought further damage to our economies. With the economic policies of the new Government contained in this budget law we bring Italy back on the tracks of equity and growth protecting the purchasing power of wages and pensions. We are securing the country, giving Italy the international credibility that has been severely blurred in recent months. It is a maneuver that restores trust to the people in the institutions, through the fight against tax evasion, supported by incentives for electronic payments and spontaneous compliance. It is a maneuver that increases the net in paycheck to workers through the cutting of taxes - yes - at work. It is a maneuver that will provide families with adequate support for parenthood through the establishment of a single allowance. As far as the measures that I particularly have to do with health care are concerned, I would like to mention some very important measures for the community, starting with the confirmation of the EUR 2 billion increase in the National Health Fund, the abolition of the superticket from next September and the confirmation of the two Funds, from EUR 500 million each, for innovative medicines and innovative environmentally friendly medicines. Among the most interesting news is the allocation of EUR 235 million to equip doctors' studies - and now, in budget law, thanks to the collaboration of many colleagues, extended and extended to pediatricians of free choice - in order to have more first-level diagnostics, going also in this direction towards the elimination of waiting lists. Without forgetting another amendment, which is very important with regard to the territories farthest from us, concerning the extension of the experimentation of the pharmacies of the services, which will also arrive in other regions (almost always Southern regions), going to give a further service to those citizens who will need to have immediate services closer to them. These are important, concrete signals that immediately reach the citizens. It is a first step in a potentially epochal reform, which over time can be translated not only into increasing attention to the patient, but also into savings for the National Health System because it can contribute to the reduction of waiting lists in the field of first-level diagnostics and will prevent inappropriate access to the hospital emergency room. To this must be added an additional EUR 2 billion for health care - we know how much the health facilities need to be modernised - and a disability and non-self-sufficiency fund with a budget of EUR 550 million, which will be added to what has already been planned for 2022. In short, there are concrete advances for health that lead us to say that this budget law can, in effect, represent a turning point for the whole sector. In addition, as promised, we have increased - as my colleagues have already said - the fund for student scholarships. That's another thing we really cared about, too. We have not yet achieved what we wanted; we are reasoning and we will continue to do this battle until we get to solve the problem of the training funnel, obviously controlling and seeing where there are really specialization deficiencies. It is, therefore, an important step and an initial signal to the resolution, over the years, of the lack of doctors and, above all, of specialists. Another key issue for health care is the stabilisation of personnel: we have extended the deadline to 31 December 2019 to have completed the requirements in order to be stabilized, in addition to having foreseen the sliding of the rankings, which is another concrete signal. More people will be able to stabilize, especially in the health sector, both as doctors and nurses. We are pleased to see that all political forces agree on this issue: how could this not be the case when it comes to health and the protection of the health of our citizens in particular? The debate on the budget law has been enriched by the parliamentary contribution and the work in the Commission, as has been mentioned earlier. For me, this is not the first time I have participated in the work of the budget law and every year, when discussing the draft budget law, there are assemblies and small classrooms, but this is our work as a Member of Parliament: we cannot always have everything comfortable. It is there that we have to stay and, if one has to follow his own amendments, he does the night, as many of us who have been present have done. Therefore, I do not think it is an inconvenience; on the contrary, I think that is the making available of our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] However, this budget law has been taken into account and worked, because this is how the Government had asked us, unlike the previous one, that instead had submitted a maxi amendment of which no one knew anything, not even who was in the government. We have been able to remove amendment by amendment, we have to remain in the Commission for 15 hours, but to reach a conclusion, as you can see, with the rapporteurs present and then we will continue in the coming weeks. The aim of this maneuver is to offer the country solutions that also give a political soul to this alliance, which was born, it is true, with the ambitious objective that was not only to sterilize VAT clauses, but to lower the spread and secure the accounts of our country with respect to a disastrous legacy that had been left just a few months before from the point of view of the international credibility of the country and the prospect of keeping its accounts. This majority, which was born on the wave of an emergency (we remember that, don't we?), with great responsibility towards the country took him in hand, with the ambition to build a cohesion that could last the entire legislature and, therefore, to give to its own measures not only the ability to face the problems of today, but also to foreshadow solutions for tomorrow. That is why I find the propaganda carried out by the opposition pretentious and demagogic, especially by those who only a few months ago sat among the benches of the government. Just see the fake news that have been art mounted on the reform of the ESM. Politics is also serious and responsible and never as at this time the country needs it. The Democratic Party, assuming the burden of governing and facing a budget law from which they preferred to run away for fear of making unpopular decisions, has once again demonstrated, together with its majority, that they have these requirements. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u55	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House, where we work for the good of the citizens and do not talk about cows or donkeys (but, of course, everyone sees what they want to see), we are discussing the state budget law for the financial year 2020 and the multi-annual budget for the three-year period 2020-2022, a maneuver which contains a number of measures relating to agriculture and fisheries. We are finally talking, insistently, about agriculture and fisheries in this legislature, which will be fundamental for the development of the country that we are imagining for the years to come. Suffice it to say that the Ministry of Agricultural, Food and Forestry Policies will be allocated as much as 600 million euros that put MIPAAF at the heart of government choices and make it one of the primary sectors for the three-year period 2020-2022. By analysing in detail some of these important facilities, we can see how the 2020 agriculture bonus consists of a total exemption of the mandatory INPS contributions for 24 months in favour of professional farmers and direct farmers. With this maneuver, we put women at the centre of our political agenda: for them there are zero-rate loans of up to 300,000 euros for farms run by entrepreneurs, the maximum duration of the loan will be 15 years, a measure that will be operational within sixty days of the entry into force of the budget law 2020, since it is planned to issue a special ministerial implementing decree. In addition to this, in order to protect workers in agriculture, we can also associate the fund that will be used to establish new kindergartens, precisely in order to encourage working women to have a family situation that will meet them. Also for 2020, agricultural incomes do not contribute to the formation of the tax base for the purposes of the IRPEF, tax on the income of natural persons, direct farmers and professional farmers enrolled in the agricultural insurance. However, since 2021, the exemption has fallen to 50%. The 2020 budget bill also provides for support for companies affected by the Asian bug, a scourge that has brought the fruit and vegetable sector to its knees with a yield loss of 90%. Eighty million euros over the three-year period 2020-2022 have been allocated to the National Solidarity Fund - compensatory measures. 15 million euros have also been allocated for 2020 and 14.5 million euros for 2021 for the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises and with the objective of supporting the development and the investments in the supply chains, measures also in line with the green new deal programme, for the strengthening of the sector of environmental sustainability and the plan made in Italy. Other preferential rules for agriculture are contained in the tax decree contained in the 2020 maneuver under discussion in the Chamber and concern the guarantee of the small and medium-sized free enterprise fund up to 20,000 euros for the development of innovative technologies, precision agriculture, traceability of products with blockchain technologies. Finally, we are talking about two measures incorporated into this very important budget law. With a rule, from 2020, we allocate EUR 200,000 for the operation of the CUNs, the national single commissions that have the task of monitoring and regulating the market for agricultural, agri-food and fish products. The proper functioning of CUNs is necessary to monitor market developments and any critical nodes. In order to speed up the production of Made in Italy, we must protect our products first, while in the fisheries sector, with another rule, we are going to guarantee income support for workers employed by fishing companies, including cooperative workers, during the period of suspension of employment, by allocating as much as EUR 11 million. One of the great engines for the development of Italy is agriculture - we are strongly supporting it in this legislature - and agro-food and this maneuver is an example of how we must invest to promote the development of the country and to relaunch it also at national and international level. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u57	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u58	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on the basic law of the country's economic and social life, a law that often sees the various political forces opposed, each interested in protecting the rights of its representatives and of its territory. In general, even in this maneuver we do not specify the criteria for the distribution of resources between the various areas of the Country, between North and South, we do not enter in detail the plan of departure, nor the dossiers of the Senate, which we have also urged, offer a specific economic analysis of the distribution of resources in the various areas of the Country. Yes, it is true, there are measures for the Mezzogiorno: the strengthening of the EEZs, leaving unchanged the maximum limit for each investment project of 50 million euros, the incentives "Resto al Sud," the fund "Cresci al Sud"; Article 34 allocates to some municipalities of the Mezzogiorno a contribution of 75 million euros annually, to be allocated to investments for social infrastructures; Article 35 allocates to the development of the internal areas 60 million for 2021 and 70 million for the years 2022-2023; Article 37 extends the tax credit for investments in the Mezzogiorno; the extension of the measure for investments made in 2020 involves a tax credit of 674 million euros; Article 26 assigns new resources to the Sabatini law. Another welcome measure is certainly the support for the growth of the Mezzogiorno through a series of measures that go in this direction, with the strengthening of the clause that provides for the allocation to the southern territories of a quota not less than 34% of the total public investment. But more could and had to be done: 1.5 billion euros in the South correspond more or less to the same amount that is allocated to the Winter Olympics alone, which had asked for 3 billion euros. If Italy is in stagnation, the South is in recession. More than €60 billion a year of investment is missing. For eighteen years we have been talking about essential levels of performance (LEP), of differentiated autonomy: I would have liked to read that for cities like Naples, Bari and Palermo more resources would have been allocated. For regions like Basilicata I would have liked to see more resources for infrastructure, instead we will have to settle for some citadel for 5G technology, in Matera, which hurts health. This year too, therefore, none of this. In the transport sector it is expected that the Turin metro line will be financed, but in order to travel the route Catania-Trapani or Bari-Reggio Calabria it will take many hours. We are still waiting for the railway in Matera, and all this does not seem to me to be very fair and I say this to all my colleagues in this House. As far as the environment is concerned, we continue to talk about green new deal, which the Government says it wants to pursue with conviction, but for 2020 at the bottom it is just 470 million euros and will be increased only after 2021. We are far from achieving the objectives set at world level for the drastic reduction of admissions as a state. Maybe we'll notice when it's too late. As far as agriculture is concerned, we have set up the Competitiveness Fund in MIPAAF's forecast, but this funding should be directed more precisely to the heading "Industry" and not to the heading "Agriculture" because the supply chains are cages prepared in a manner of art by the industries, in which farmers enter in order to monopolise the market, harness it, impose prices and conditions that are often impenetrable and indecent. The Ministry, instead of financing the supply chains, as it did, should have also financed the CUNs (National Single Commissions) and set up those CUNs that serve our farmers, especially in the Mezzogiorno. But all this has not yet been done, despite the Minister's commitments. Something's not right. You want to increase the production of grain in the South and then you give money to the industries to increase the production: there is something that doesn't work. On justice, I would like to remind the House that many lawyers who defend their assistants under legal aid are still waiting to be dismissed. Of course, we cannot fail to appreciate the sterilization of the safeguard clauses in order to avoid the increase in VAT, the forecast of the reduction of the tax wedge for workers, the block of the flat tax for VAT lots, some measures on investments in the environment, the cancellation of the superticket, the forecast of the financing of some million for the cheque for the first child. It is good that since January 1, 2020 many Italian families will no longer pay the fees for kindergartens. It is also positive that from 1 January 2020 many Italian families will no longer pay the fees of kindergartens. The introduction - postponed to July - of taxes on disposable plastic and drinks with added sugars (a measure that already exists in many other European countries), incentives for the use of electronic payment instruments (important for the fight against tax evasion), the reconfirmation of citizenship income, the facilitations for industry 4.0 and the bonus facades are also positive. With the new package of amendments, deposited by the rapporteurs in the Budget Committee, changes have been introduced to the green new deal, more resources to the National Fund for Non-self-sufficiency and the bonus excellence. Among the amending proposals, I also mention the resources for financial education and the single ACI circulation document. Among the various topics, I would also mention the Support Fund for the families of the victims of serious accidents at work, the Frankfurt Book Fair, the early retirement of journalists, scooters and bicycles, the completion of the geological map of Italy, the funds for scholarships to universities, the extension of contracts for socially useful workers (LSU) in Calabria and the courses against bullying for teachers. Those who receive crazy bills for the supply of electricity, gas, water, telephone or television services, in addition to the reimbursement of any sums paid and not due, are also entitled to receive a sum equal to 10% of the amount contested. It also raises its pink share on the boards of directors of listed companies. With regard to the original text of the maneuver, I welcome the intervention on the royalties of oil extraction companies, which provide for the non-application of the exemption thresholds for the three-year period 2020-2022. In this respect, I was hoping that an amendment of mine would be adopted to re-determine the production rates of hydrocarbons, with revenues for the state's coffers of more than EUR 2 billion. At present, royalty charges, overall, 10% on liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, with the exception of liquid hydrocarbons extracted at sea, for which the rate is 7%. These percentages in Italy are really ridiculous compared to other countries. For example, in Norway and Indonesia, royalties are 80%, in Libya 90%, while in Canada, local governments complain because they consider 45% insufficient. As I liked to have a constructive and proactive approach, I tabled twenty-four amendments and four agendas in the Commission (the latter, to be honest, were all four accepted but as a recommendation), many of which focused on the issues of the environment and agriculture, i.e. those on which today we play the most important games for the sustainable development of our country. I thank the Government for the acceptance of my other five agendas, presented in the Agriculture and Agri-food Production Commission, although with reformulation, concerning the moratorium for farmers, farmers and fishermen, the CAP for organic farming, the extension of the so-called break-up ter to the inspections of the agricultural IMU 2014-2015, as well as the establishment of the single national commission (CUN) for wheat. Finally, there is the issue of the socid, for which I have presented an agenda, containing the precise commitment of the Government to deepen the application of this contract, in order to avoid the distorting effects from it. In this respect, I also tabled an amendment to abolish soccer contracts to the livestock sector, which would increase the estimated tax revenue by around EUR 3 billion per year. This provision would have favoured proper integration between the different components of the supply chain, but unfortunately it has been rejected. Among the other amendments tabled, I would mention also those concerning the Tari for university students, the extension of contracts of the staff of the Municipality of Matera, the abolition of the IRPEF competition to 50% for the Dominican and agricultural incomes, the interventions for the rescue of farms in difficulty, a moratorium for farmers, farmers and fishermen, the tax credit for investments in agriculture, the amendments to Law No 205 of 27 December 2017 (green bonus), the fund for environmental and landscape protection in the internal areas, the establishment of a productive free zone in the municipality of Matera and the flood fund in Matera and Metaponto. My view of this is partly positive and partly negative, because I believe that the Government should have had more courage towards measures that have also been envisaged. In any case, as far as my agendas are concerned, I hope that the government will soon make them rules. On the other hand, I regret the rejection of some amending proposals which would have brought more money into the state's coffers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the short time available to me, I would like to concentrate on one aspect of this maneuver of which, like Movimento 5 Stars, we are extremely proud. This aspect has the objective of enhancing women, our role as workers and our role as mothers. This is, for the first time, a measure that devotes attention to women and families that has never been in this way before. In this regard, however, let me first carry out a general and preliminary consideration: a country that decides to invest in women, research and green policies, therefore on the environment, as we are finally doing, is a courageous country that expresses a vision and that is projected into the future with confidence, does not just put - so to speak - patches so much to liven up and move forward, but expresses an authentic perspective; for this we sincerely thank the current Government and all the colleagues with whom we have worked day and night to carry out these important measures. I am thinking, first of all, of the family package, of the whole series of measures dedicated to families with children, which is intended precisely to help the reconciliation of work and family for women, which is so complex at the moment. We have in fact doubled the voucher for kindergartens bringing it from 1,500 to 3,000 euros for families with ISEE up to 25,000 euros. We have increased the bonus to 2,500 euros for families with ISEE up to 40,000 euros. The baby bonus for newborns is naturally confirmed while the leave for dads is enhanced, which goes from five to seven days. Our objective, of course, is to reach at least ten, as planned by Europe, but those who know me well know how I feel about it. The son concerns his mother and concerns his father: leave must be equal for both parents, only so men and women will be truly equal in society and in the world of work and both parental figures will be recognized and valued as necessary. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are also measures to support youth and female entrepreneurship: as many as 10 million per year of grants to support the birth and development of young and female enterprises. Well also the bonus women in the field: 15 million to guarantee zero-rate loans up to 300,000 euros to agricultural entrepreneurs or to all those women who intend to become it. And again, thanks to the extension of the women's option, women who have gained 35 years of age and are at least fifty-eight years of age will be able to retire if they choose to do so. We have worked on all fronts: on the front of the family, the job and the welfare, but we have also moved on other fronts like the world of sport. We all know about the vexed question that women athletes are never and under no circumstances professional. Well, we have encouraged the federations to finally change this approach, giving them the opportunity to make our professional athletes too in order to overcome this unacceptable disparity made up of lower compensation and total lack of protection. Again, I have already had the opportunity to express my opinion on this issue and to see how sad it is that the federations need an economic incentive to implement the principle of equality enshrined in the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We take note of this and, if that serves to overcome this unacceptable justice, so be it. And that it is the principle of a fast path of recognition of women's sports professionalism at every level. With regard to overcoming injustices, I can only mention a further measure included in the tax decree, namely the reduction of VAT on biodegradable absorbents, which will finally rise from 22% to 5%. Apart from the instrumental criticism of this measure, it is a historic milestone for us women, which is declined in accordance with the modern sensitivity of respect for the environment. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention the 12 million allocated over three years against violence against women for the Extraordinary Action Plan against Sexual and Gender Violence, a measure which goes hand in hand with the extension of compensation also to the face rubbing and the increased protection of orphans of feminicide. I want to bring to the House my memory, and of course that of the whole Assembly, of Cristina Biagi, killed by her husband in the restaurant where she worked in Massa Carrara in 2013. Through her, our thoughts go to all the victims of feminicide and their family members, who must be guaranteed protection from any form of direct compensation action. We did it for Cristina's daughters and all the orphans of feminicide. Let's not compromise on that. We have shown this in fact and we are proud of it. I will now listen carefully to the intervention of former colleague Ugo Grassi. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u60	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to focus on Article 28 of the Budget Act. This article mentions the introduction and creation of the National Research Agency. This Agency requires an expenditure commitment of approximately EUR 5 million only for the operation of the structure: EUR 5 million. It is an Agency whose purpose is to identify the research projects to be financed. I quote Article 28: "4. The Agency shall be composed of the Director, the Steering Committee, the College of Auditors. 5. The Director shall be chosen by the President of the Council of Ministers. The steering committee consists of eight members chosen: two from the Minister for Education, University and Research, one from the Minister for Economic Development, one from the Minister for Health, one from the Minister for Technological Innovation and Digitalization, one from the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities, one from the National University Council, one from the Consultant of the Presidents of the Public Research Authorities. It is clear that the Governing Council is solely in the hands of politics. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A structure that costs 5 million euros: think of how many scholarships could be funded with that 5 million! How many students could be researched? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Instead, we use this sum to feed a structure of political nomination, which will decide, in violation of the principle of freedom of research, as enshrined in the Constitution, what research projects to finance. In the text, among other things, there is a clear reference to the twin agency already present in our system, which is the Anvur (National Agency for the Evaluation of the University System and Research). This agency to be set up evaluates the impact of the research activity taking into account the results provided by the Anvur. Who really devotes his time to the university, who spends his hours receiving students, tutoring, studying, publishing teaching articles knows well what the Anvur meant for the Italian university. Anvur has been defined as the most monstrous betrayal of scientific research that has ever been carried out in Italy; a subject whose only purpose is the production of bureaucratic rules that serve - and this has been strongly desired by the Governments of the XVII legislature - to the production of a system of competition between universities based on a series of indicators that culminate in the application of algorithms. All this to decide which departments of excellence are, in the name of a competition that constitutes the pale copy of what could happen in a market, but market is not because research and study are public goods in the main. Well, all this has caused damage to all the universities, from North to South, to South in particular, because this system has drained resources. One of the goals was the downsizing of the Anvur, and in this I also found a strong sensitivity in the League. Not only is Anvur mentioned, strengthened, but we create a second agency: bureaucracy on bureaucracy. We are destroying - in the name of interests of which I do not know the entity - the future of the study. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Look, the university is the driving force of this country. A committee had to be set up - as I proposed - to be entrusted with the task of raising additional funds - not already managing public funds - in order to promote technology transfer while respecting the country's homogeneity. As far as I am aware, the text I have just mentioned is still strongly desired by this Government. You are still in time to stop; university professors and students will be grateful to you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u62	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. As he is not present in the Chamber, he is intended to speak again.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u63	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u64	Mr President, I have heard colleagues tell us how the process of a budget bill can be improved. Indeed, we are all faced with a new experience, because in this parliamentary term we had never yet dealt with a draft budget law in the way it should be dealt with. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Last year, after voting and approving the draft budget law in the House, the balances changed; we changed them here in the Senate with a large amendment without passing by the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This year we have had the debate to the very end, I think it is satisfactory with regard to the conditions given. Everyone has made their contribution - and this must be acknowledged by the Members of the various political forces - under the very appropriate leadership of the Presidency of the Commission and the rapporteurs, and thanks to the presence of the Government which has helped us to do a fruitful job. After that, it is true: we operate in a regime that I do not find it difficult to call monocameralism alternate, in the sense that, in an alternate way, only the House or only the Senate deal with the measures. In the coming days we will discuss other decree-laws that have been examined, distorted and improved only by the House, which we will not modify: in the same way the House will face the work of this budget law. I believe that all this is in keeping with a subject that we have already considered before and which consists in imagining the way in which our institutional system can respond in the right way to the needs that the modern world places before us. We are talking about the modernisation of our institutional system in relation to what are the new realities in our society. I agree with this statement precisely in order to grasp a decisive and decisive aspect that we have before us and that this Government has suddenly been revealed: a reality revealed to all of us, that is to say the need to govern the transition giving it a direction. This is the theme that we found ourselves having to consider and that no longer has a chance to be procrastinated, because change has arrived. Things question us in a meaningful and urgent way, but if we are not able to govern the transition, because change is not instantaneous, if we are not able to give a direction to the transition, here we begin to make choices that look to the past, that lock us in a comfort zone no longer sustainable in any respect, neither from the environmental point of view, nor from the economic or social point of view. We must decide to have the courage to sail in the open sea, but also to set a course. This government was born in front of this reality. It is a change that must be governed in its transition and must be oriented in its direction and we do this starting from a majority, formed in the ways we know and which, in the face of this reality, however, tries to make qualifying choices. Making pieces of the road together changes us - I say it to the members of the majority - because we are born with the idea of solving emergencies. However, at a time when the resolution of urgency calls us to the need to give a design, here we begin to make street pieces together and being together in walking changes each other, puts us in relation and automatically our identity compares with different identities and tries to find a synthesis and make common choices. It is difficult, in fact, for a government to hold on if the assumption of the forces that make it up is that it does not want to have any more to do with each other in the future: how do you manage to govern with people with whom you do not want to be together and make a piece of the road together? On the contrary, today we are starting to make a piece of the road together and we must be aware that we will change each other, we will mix, not so much by changing our cultural views, but by putting in place the determination that makes us make shared choices, such as those that have been made here and I am referring, in the first place, to Europe. In the framework that guides us there is a different understanding, a different vision and an approach to what Europe is towards our country. From here, therefore, we start after having overcome, I believe, a very high obstacle, which today allows us to govern aspects that were previously completely out of control, first of all the spread. We are talking about a budget law with very strong economic aspects on the life of the country, of which perhaps we have no evidence in everyday life: with the current Government we are going to save almost 40 billion euros in perspective on the interests of debt and it is only the outcome of the choice to start a journey together. Then consider that if we had not done this draft budget law on 1 January the increase in VAT would have taken place. We are talking here about safeguard clauses to be neutralized, but the point is that the previous budget law had decided to increase VAT from 1 January 2020 and that is why we are allocating EUR 23 billion for this purpose, i.e. to ensure that it does not increase VAT from 1 January. There are people here who say that taxes increase, but with the measure under discussion we block the increase in taxes that are affecting mainly families. Then there are other elements that represent the beginning of a sharing, of what I used to call the government of the transition. When it comes to green new deal, it means that we are faced with a reality that asks us to make choices and if we don't get there and start a path that goes in that direction, these changes will overwhelm us. Before I come to the conclusion, to understand what it means to govern the transition I would like to make an example that I have already made in 10a Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. In our country we have production and industrial sectors that will necessarily have to change: we talk for example about the automotive sector. There are European directives that lead us to be greener and I think about electric cars. We have 60,000 employees working directly in the automotive industry, but to build an electric car it takes 25 people, while for a normal car it takes 100; an electric car has 800 pieces, a normal car has 8,000. Something's gonna change. How do we deal with these issues? Today's Friday. Do we think Monday's settled? No, we have to build tables that govern this transition together, that lead us to make it sustainable and compatible with what it will be. I define it as a path of convergence of our country because this question presupposes the topic of the homogeneity of territories with respect to services and a whole set of things. I believe that with this draft budget law we have started a difficult path; we must have the responsibility but above all the awareness of continuing it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u66	Mr President, last but not least, I have chosen the subject chosen by the students who are not well-prepared and who are a little scarce: the topical issue. Unfortunately, it is not a secret that in my previous profession, that of university professor and free intellectual in the debate, I had a leaning and a political belonging to the left. Unfortunately it is not a secret because the young colleague Morelli of the Lower House, in his spirit always ridicule, said it in front of a few hundred people (according to the journalistic sources) in St. John's Square; I have seen some hundreds of thousands, but I do not dwell on zeros. To revive the atmosphere, I will then try to make a speech that brings back a bit 'to the time when I was a "zecca," to say it with the technical language of the Group that I have now decided to belong to [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , so I also explain why I made this radical choice, since we have seen others these days. I would like to focus with you on something that should be interesting when discussing the budget law, which is the fundamental law of the State - as has been noted by many - precisely because it decides who to give and who to take away. It is that in which the State performs its redistributive function, that function which we legit "bad and bad" had been accused of wanting to do from the bottom up. We would have been the ones with the flat tax who took away the poor to give to the rich. Let me read you a few ideas from the electoral programme of a country where the elections have just taken place: 75 billion for people's housing in five years; 5 percent for the immediate increase in public sector salaries; minimum wage to 10 pounds per hour; lower retirement age for weary jobs; second home assets (because if you don't put on a splash of fiscal aggression you can't present yourself as credibly left); of course more broadband for everyone (in the original it was something else, but broadband always brings you too) [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and "Undoubtedly" vote at sixteen: a fantastic left-wing program. I open and close a reflection: when as a left-wing intellectual I tried to explain the class struggle... do you still want me in the Group if I say these things? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thank you. So, I explained the class struggle in the following way. The world works this way: the rich want to become richer and the poor want to become poorer. In a normal audience someone would have noticed that something is wrong with this talk, but nobody noticed it in here. Unfortunately even the poor want to become richer and they are more. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Why are the poor in the United Kingdom, who are - alas - the majority, since the concentration of income is increasing in a worrying way, not voting for the programme offered to them by Corbyn? I spoke to some of our political spectrum's colleagues in the "infrared" gang, who told me that this happened because Corbyn was obnoxious and there was no strong man in command of the left. The truth is another, and we must tell ourselves this, because even though we have not had the dramatization of the dialogue with Brussels this year (which is then a city, perhaps we should say 'with the European Union'), the truth is that a programme such as that of Corbyn within the European Union is unworkable and the British have taken note of it. That is why they voted in favour of the Conservative Party, the Conservative Party's proposal to get out of this cage. Why is Corbyn's program unworkable? It is unworkable - we know this and it has been said by many scholars - because the system, having deprived itself of some fundamental safeguards to adjust macroeconomic shocks, for example the flexibility of the exchange rate, is forced to resort to internal devaluation, which is the reduction of wages. We continue to beat it with this story that austerity serves to reduce public debt; austerity serves to increase unemployment sufficiently, so that workers agree to be paid less in countries that need to regain competitiveness: point and end. Is this the only possible route? Of course not, there are other paths, paths up; hegemony economies should make expansionary programs, finance their investments for the good of their citizens, before all the others, but this does not happen. There is more and more going towards the logic of each individual for himself and no one for all. But then this European Union, which is so gracious with the good and so cruel with the reprobate, which we proudly are, to what exactly do we need? Do we want to ask ourselves this question on the day that we have this moment of approval of a law that is being processed by the famous fiscal compact with the European Semester? One of its uses clarifies this in the case of Norddeutsche Landesbank, which perhaps has little to do with today's debate, apart from the fact that for this story of making "two weights and two measures" you already know that we have an account of one billion euros to pay to save one of our banks (but we don't make names to open markets). It serves to influence the economic dynamics of the countries, to institutionalize the method of "two weights and two measures," to ensure that a country in the North - Germany - can continue to save its banks with public money; it serves to massacre us when we try to remedy the crisis situations that are created in our country. That's what it's for. The question then is one: dear colleagues, as far as we can continue to accept this system, in which - I have already said, but I repeat - we cannot even understand what is the process of regulation (let us take as an example the one on the ESM) that concerns us very closely and the future of our children, while - on the other hand - it is strictly processed with limit dates and ultimatum (so as to create that sympathetic tension on the markets that keeps us awake) the process of drafting the budget law, which instead should be an act of autonomy at least the maximum act of legislative power of a country? I don't know. That's a question I'm asking you. We have been bitter about the absurdities that are still present in the draft budget law, but let us think about those that have been removed, for example the attempt to reform, by amendment, the system of independent authorities, things that were genuinely crying out for revenge to heaven and, thank God, the Presidents of the Commission and of the Assembly have decided to declare such filthy things inadmissible. However, I do not want to go against this majority. At this moment Christmas is approaching and I apologise for writing such an abominable budget law. However, I do not apologise for the fact that you continue to postpone a debate and reflection on the real issue: do we need the European Union or not? If then we want to decide that the real issue is how many pieces a car has, I will document myself and I will be happy to have a frank debate with my previous colleague. In my opinion, however, on a day like this, the institutional theme of why we need the "tunnara" in which we have gladly entered must be mentioned for two reasons. First of all, because there are those who are coming out of it and because we are still in it; second, because all the apories that you are encountering in managing, from a rissosa majority, unconcluded divided and unable to govern this country, are ultimately due not to your personal limitations (I have the utmost respect for your political ability and experience), but to the apories of the system on which you continue not to want to reflect and also to deny others the right to do so! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And this, unfortunately, will not be forgiven not so much by the Group to which I belong, but by the voters. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dell'Olio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget bill we are debating today in this House contains a wide range of important measures for the country, citizens and businesses. Many have spoken of the most famous points of the law, including the blocking of the increase in VAT, a measure that would be unnoticed, but which, in fact, is a reduction of 23 billion euros of taxes that would otherwise have affected, on average, 540 euros on families. Then there are measures to support the world of health and many other interventions that I am not repeating here, as they have already been extensively illustrated by my previous colleagues. I would like to focus on something that explains how the Movimento 5 Stars is moving to the Government, in a furrow that is continuous and has its meaning because it is necessary to put this country back, day after day, law after law, financial maneuver after financial maneuver. You cannot expect to raise the country in the course of a single exercise or even a single legislature, nor can you think of doing so quickly. It must be done on the basis of the basic bricks of a country. And bricks are people. It is necessary to put the person at the centre, restoring the dignity and the guarantee of the protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights, in perfect continuity with what the Movimento 5 Stars has begun to do in the last maneuver. Whether next to us is the party x or the party y is not interested. Italian interests come before any political idea or rivalry [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and we of the M5S are only interested in achieving the results useful for Italians. Last year the decree-law dignity and citizenship income began to give answers to the problem of poverty and precariousness with unequivocal successes, beyond some instrumental and pretentious. As the INPS recently pointed out, only six months after the introduction, citizenship income has resulted in a 60% reduction in the poverty rate. Data on the increase in stable contracts over the months are increasingly encouraging. The network of protection against the weakest, the last, the penultimate, the ones left on the margins for too many years, is progressively working. As we have always said, we would have started from the last and the essential needs of the people, and then go back to those who survive, but could live better, then continue with the support of people and families with actions in other areas beyond those of subsistence. Here, therefore, with this maneuver we continue the work for the benefit of the families, with an organic action: 600 million more in 2020 to enhance bonus baby and bonus kindergartens; parental leave that goes from five to seven days (we would have wanted to do more but economic issues did not allow us); 2 billion in the following two years to finance the single family allowance and fuel the trust of many mothers and dads, but also of many young couples who will return to look to the future with renewed confidence. For disability, another sensitive issue that affects many of our families, the budget law allocates 580 million additional over the three years to establish a new Fund for Disability and Non-self-sufficiency. However, at the same time, further funding is provided for three other ad hoc funds: the one for the protection of the right to work of disabled people, the one for disabled transport and the one for caregivers. When we talk about families, then, we cannot silence the sufferings, hopes and expectations that distinguish couples who cannot have children. It is on adoptive families that I would like to focus in particular on those forced to go uphill in relation to biological parents, from an emotional, bureaucratic and above all economic point of view. Italians want to have children, and they want it so much that those who cannot have them for biological issues, are willing to endure everything, even to face the winding paths of an international adoption compared to the national one (which, moreover, besides being absolutely insufficient in terms of numbers, has a functioning to which we will have to put our hand). Returning to international adoptions, think of all the expenses that the couple has to pay to become, to all intents and purposes, a couple of parents: expenses for travel, food, accommodation, those related to the bureaucracy of the country of origin of the child and those for the particular needs of the child himself. And the Fund for International Adoptions, which fortunately exists, supports these parents; minimally, but supports them. But it had been reduced because of the linear cuts that are made indiscriminately on a number of state posts. This led to the adoption, in the Commission' s budget law, of an amendment to my signature, which increases the International Adoption Fund by EUR 500 000 per year from 2020. It was a measure that saw all the compact and organic majority on this point, and I am sure that even the minority will be happy with this action, because being a parent has no political color. Italy has always been the guarantor of families, and of the rights and obligations associated with them, whether it is a biological family or not. Having restored the fund to its initial budget is a small signal, but it allows the adoption fund to work regularly, continuing to support adoption policies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u71	RIVOLTA, minority rapporteur. Mr President, this problem has arisen: the text that is being distributed, the draft, is not complete. I therefore call for an extension of the deadline for tabling amendments of three hours, precisely so that work can be done. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. I will of course pass on the request to President Alberti Casellati.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u73	For what, Senator? Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, simply on this subject, since we are also in a position to... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But let's not open a debate. Mr Ferrari (PD). But I ask you to speak on the order of business and I say what I want, I'm sorry. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, but let's not open up... tell her what she's talking about before I give her the floor. Mr Ferrari (PD). If you'd let me talk... Tell me the subject. Mr Ferrari (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Well, you can talk now. Mr Ferrari (PD). Yes, but if it doesn't even make me go beyond the expression 'I ask you to speak on the order of business', it's hard for you to know the subject. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, that's not correct. She was already talking. Mr Ferrari (PD). By the way, if you'd let me... president. I'm making him do it. Go ahead. Mr Ferrari (PD). You have to shut up when I speak, ma'am, otherwise... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, you have to shut up. But I'll tell you with all due respect, otherwise... No, he wasn't respectful. Go ahead. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's start from scratch. I ask you to speak on the order of business on the same subject as Senator Rivolta. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so for a minute. Mr Ferrari (PD). There is no provision for me to have a minute on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u74	[[Applause from Senator Biti. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am sorry, but I do not understand why you should interpret the Rules of Procedure in your own way. I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u75	I'm gonna take her word for it. I'll tell her first.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u76	Mr Ferrari (PD). And I of course ask President Alberti Casellati to respect the prerogatives provided for in the Rules of Procedure for senators. Among other things, it is making an absolutely useless controversy because, with an addition to the common derivations and intellectual sympathies towards the left, which has just represented Senator Bagnai, I welcome the request of Senator Rivolta, whom I consider extremely reasonable. I wanted to give as an indication that I think it is reasonable to add two or three hours, because I do not think it is reasonable to make an assessment which leads to a move beyond these two or three hours the deadline for tabling amendments. I wanted to leave to the record the fact that the Democratic Party corresponded to the same spirit... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do it. Mr Ferrari (PD). I'm doing it. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u77	He did; thank you. Time's up. In this case there was no need for you to intervene. [[Comments of Senators Biti and Stefano]] Mr Ferrari (PD). That's what I say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm asking politely. Let me speak calmly, partner. What's she yelling at? I'm talking now. There was no need for you to intervene without first saying what you wanted to report. He said it. He spoke. What a shame! It's a useless polemic. The general debate is closed. As established by the Conference of Leaders, the follow-up to the examination of the draft budget law, starting from the replies of the rapporteurs and the Government, will take place at 9.30 a.m. on Monday, 16 December.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u78	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-174.ana.u79	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 16 December, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13:52 a.m.
