ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. The Minutes of the sitting of 29 April will be read by the Secretary-General. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u3	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u4	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u5	CRAXI (FI-BP). Mr President, two days ago, Mr Gianni De Michelis died in his Venice. Gianni De Michelis was a prominent personality in the second part of the First Republic. De Michelis: genius and uncontrollableness, lucid visionary, with his gaze always turned beyond borders. [[Brusio]] If you shut up, maybe you learn something. He was one of the Lombard leaders who, in contrast to the moderateism of the DC and the ideological conservatism of the PCI, supported Craxi and the affirmation of his socialist reformism even when the Lombardians came into conflict with him. Man of Government, he was several times Minister of the Republic: competent, prepared, educated, tireless worker, enemy of banality. Many will miss his lucid analysis, his blows, his design strength. He was first Minister of Labour, in which he was one of the protagonists of the reform of industry and work, as well as a participant in the victory over Immobilism and inflation as the referendary victory of the so-called Valentine's Decree. He was then a courageous and imaginative Foreign Minister, a role in which, in agreement with Craxi and Andreotti, he confronted Thatcher on several occasions, for the construction of Europe in a spirit of solidarity between the nations in the years widely betrayed. Gianni De Michelis was, first of all, a courageous socialist, who was able to go through even the darkest and most infamous seasons of the socialist history of the country, from hombre vertical, without abjure, always defending the primacy of politics. Gianni was then a loyal companion of my father, in good and bad luck, never making him lack his fraternal solidarity in the difficult years of exile. De Michelis was one of the most demonized socialist leaders in the history of clean hands, a circumstance that has put into the background the great services he has rendered to this Republic. He was one of the protagonists of a great season, that of socialist reformism, which has been in the political and cultural history of Italy a very serious thing, that still today does not want to admit those who do not want to take note - among these also some authoritative journalists - that communism was a great historical failure, an economic failure and an antithetical ideology to freedom on the political level. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Senator Casini groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u8	NENCINI (Misto-PSI). Mr President, I have well known Gianni De Michelis and I absolutely do not share the caricature that has often been given. Long hair doesn't fit the culture of a Venetian who had been a university professor and then entrusted politics with a large part of his life. It was many things Gianni De Michelis - he was remembered by Senator Craxi - but he was above all a very good Foreign Minister. In Europe, it is remembered for three things: the first is the policies for the Mediterranean; the second is the attention that Italy should have had - and not always had - towards the Balkans; the third is for the Maastricht Treaty, which bears, among other things, its signature and which, within an Italian reformist and socialist leadership group among the most prepared, caused frictions. I remember one, lived directly: Craxi, who was then the leader of that party and a significant part of that Italy, believed that the Maastricht Treaty was absolutely not enough to represent Europe after the fall of the Berlin Wall. He imagined - and he was not wrong - a new Europe, which was being created mainly through the four pillars linked to the great national states of the time: Italy, France, Spain and Germany, which was not yet united, but which would become one within a few months. They took a different thought and a different strategy and De Michelis, the foreign minister of the Italian government who built and signed that agreement, which shared the European orientation more than he then shared that of his national leader, signed. They were both right, although perhaps the prophecy of the former, if we read the history of Europe today, was superior to the signature of the latter. He was also a good Minister of Labour at a time - and I concluded - decidedly and terribly controversial. History has given reason to those who then signed the decree of San Valentino (1984), because that act represented a turning point for the Italian economy and for the well-being of Italians. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u11	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am grateful first of all to Senator Craxi, because I too felt the strong need to recall a significant personality, who on behalf of the Italian Republic signed the Maastricht Treaty. [[Applause from Senator Papatheu.]] In my humble opinion, he was one of the best foreign ministers and a man who, on two particular issues, such as the Mediterranean and the Europe of the Balkans, worked like very few others. Perhaps a colleague who has had similar sensitivity on the subject of the Balkans was Senator Bonino, whom I have the honour of sitting here today, at my side. I would also like to say to my colleagues that Gianni De Michelis does not deserve the trivialization of newspaper articles. Reading the Italian newspapers on Saturday, De Michelis seemed to have spent his life in a discotheque. I believe that this is a generalization, which on the one hand can be picturesquely understandable, but which is unacceptable and must be rejected. De Michelis was a great Minister for Labour, he was a great Minister for Foreign Affairs, he was a socialist, even in the European Parliament, able to make himself appreciated as one of the brightest minds in the Italian Republic. Of course, he had his ways, but he was always a loyal man, with friends first and foremost and with opponents. I liked the words of the President emeritus Napolitano, who wanted to remember it, because perhaps he is one of the members of the left former communist who understood more the rigor and political seriousness of Gianni De Michelis. Like all of us, like all those who make politics at high levels, he has had moments of satisfaction and bitterness, but, Mr President, as I have already told you informally, in the messages that we exchanged, I think it is right that the Senate remember him even in a more meditated way, for the choices of his foreign policy and I think it is right that the Italians send him a thought of gratitude for what he did, when he worked in the Italian political and institutional life. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u14	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, Senator Craxi is right: with Gianni De Michelis one of the most brilliant political personalities of recent decades disappears, with a strategic vision of Italy's interest in the world. His long and extraordinary career in the institutions, as well as his commitment to the party, is remembered by Gianni De Michelis as Minister of Foreign Affairs and for many reasons. Senators Nencini and Casini have already mentioned his political-diplomatic activity, which was marked by three great pillars: the centrality of our country in the Mediterranean, the adherence to the democratic and liberal Western front and the convinced Europeanism. In the name of the first, he was able to cultivate deep relations with the Palestinian Authority, together with Bettino Craxi, and with the young independent States of North Africa; in the name of the second, he was stabilizer of the Atlantic Pact, after the fall of the Berlin Wall; in the name of the third, he was one of the main promoters of the European Economic and Monetary Union, culminating with his signature of the Maastricht Treaty and then in his role as MEP. He was a great politician and a great socialist politician. It is true, this is the time of the caricatures, but I am convinced that his memory will remain indelible among Italians, who think it is possible a non-subordinate, autonomous and firmly anchored to the democratic and liberal West. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u15	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, after consulting the Council of Ministers, has withdrawn his appointment as State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport of the sen. Armando SIRI. ==References====External links==
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u16	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u17	The Conference of the Leaders has decided to concentrate the work of the Assembly this week on the days of today and tomorrow, in order to allow, on the other days of the week, the convocation of the Commissions engaged in the examination of the decree-law unblocks yards. Therefore, the sessions of today and tomorrow, without closing hours, will be dedicated to the discussion of the bill on the vote of political-mafia exchange, of the decree-law on the revival of the agricultural sectors in crisis, as well as to the Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126-a, paragraph 2-a of the Regulation, on the connected bill for the improvement of the public administration. The question time, already scheduled for Thursday 16, will not take place. As already established, the Assembly and the Commissions will not hold session in the week before the European elections of 26 May, with the exception of the Commissions 5a, 8a and 13a, where necessary, for the continuation of the examination of decree-law n. 32 of 2019, unblock yards, possibly limiting the convocations to the days of Monday 20 and Tuesday 21 May. The schedule of the week from 28 to 30 May provides for the discussion of the following measures: decree-law unblocks yards; bill related to the public finance maneuver concerning the concreteness of the public administrations; bill on the contrast to the Circ Convention of the elderly; ratification with Kenya on the Centre Luigi Broglio; resolution of the Agriculture Commission on the Asian marble bug; where concluded by the Commissions, drafts of law on the minimum hourly wage, video surveillance and detachment of Municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region. Thursday 30, at 3 p.m., the question time will take place. Finally, with reference to document IV, point 1-A, concerning the Report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorization to use telephone interceptions of a senator, also in relation to a similar case pending in the Chamber of Deputies, the Group Heads unanimously agreed that the relevant committees of the two Parliament branches should jointly assess shared criteria on the division of competences.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u18	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following program of the Senate's proceedings for the months of May and June 2019: - Drawing of Law No 510-B - Amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code in the matter of political-mafia vote (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No 920-B - Interventions for the concreteness of the actions of public administrations and the prevention of absenteeism (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the maneuvering of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of Law Nos. 980 and 855 - Amendments to the penal code and to the criminal procedure code and other measures relating to the circumvention of elderly persons - Document XXIV, No 5 - Resolution approved by the 9th Commission on the invasion of Asian marble - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Establishment of the minimum hourly wage (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Measures to prevent and combat conduct of ill-treatment or abuse, including psychological, to the detriment of minors in the educational services for children and in the schools of children and persons hosted in the socio-health and socio-assistant structures for the elderly and persons with disabilities and delegation to the Government in the matter of training of staff (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio by the region Marche and their aggregation to the region of Emilia-Romagna, within the province of Rimini, pursuant to Article 132, second paragraph of the Constitution (approved by the Chamber of the Chamber of Conversions)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u19	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable under Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday, May 14, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 510-B - Exchange vote (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1249 - Decree-Law n. 27, Relaunching agricultural sectors in crisis (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expired on 28 May) - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation, on the draft law n. 1122 - Delegations public improvement administration (connected to the maneuver of public finance) Wednesday 15 " h. 9,30]] The Assembly and the Commissions will not hold session in the week before the European elections of 26 May, with the exception of the Commissions 5a, 8a and 13a, where necessary, for the continuation of the examination of decree-law n. 32, unblock yards, possibly limiting the convocations to the days of Monday 20 and Tuesday 21 May. [[Tuesday, May 28, h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 1248 - Decree-Law n. 32, Unblock construction sites (decades on 17 June) - Drawing of law n. 920-B - Concreteness of the actions of public administrations (approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies) (connected to the maneuver of public finance) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n. 980 and 885 - Contrast to the circonvention of the elderly - Drawing of law n. 1088 - Ratification with Kenya on the Space Center Luigi Broglio - Doc. XXIV, n. 5 - Resolution of the 9th Commission on the invasion of Asian marble wire - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Minimum hourly salary (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Common detachment of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 30, 15) Wednesday 29 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 30 " h. 9.30-20]] Amendments to Draft Law No 920-B (Concreteness of Public Administration Actions) and Nos. 980 and 885 (Contrast to the Convention of the Elderly) must be submitted by 1 p.m. on Thursday 23 May. The time limits for tabling amendments to the draft law n. 310 and related (Minimum hourly salary), n. 897 and related (Videosurveillance) and n. 1144 and related (Common detacco of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1249 (Decree-Law No 27, Relaunching agricultural sectors in crisis) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46'+15'=1h. 1'* FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] * The additional time was set by the Conference of Leaders on 14 May 2019. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1248 (Decree-Law No 32, Unblock yards) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 920-B (Concreteness of Public Administration Actions) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u22	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to raise two questions concerning the timetable. At the previous Conference of Leaders, there had been a commitment to release next week from the work of both the House and the Commissions, because at the following weekend there are elections in many municipalities, elections for the European Parliament and also regional elections in Piedmont and some of us are also candidates (and this is not only true of our Group. Well, we do the election campaign in a traditional way and we cannot go there with the means, the follow-up, the apparatus and with certain supportive actions that the Ministers have. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] We need to do it on the ground and therefore we had been to the agreement that had been taken so that there would be no work, not even the Commission. On the other hand, it has been decided to move forward next week, despite the fact that we are fully prepared to work fully this week, in which, moreover, the work of the House is quite short as a duration and, consequently, there is room for the Commissions, and also to work as much as is necessary in the week following the elections. This commitment of ours could ensure that we maintain the pacts that had been made and thus keep the week off next week. Working that week on that decree-law means having the two committees of merit engaged and of course also the Budget Commission, since, especially when the Government and others continue to make proposals, it is also necessary to present a series of sub-amendments, on which the Budget Commission must express itself. We therefore call for the work of the Commissions not to be planned in that week either, confirming the commitment this week and in the post-election commitment to do what is necessary and to provide for the necessary meetings to be held to conclude the examination of the measure at a time when the majority has already considered it appropriate, i.e. by the first week after the elections. There is a second point that is very close to our heart: our Group has long - and not only us, but also other opposition forces - tabled a motion for Radical Radio, the extension of which expires on 21 May. The fact that we do not discuss it until after 27 May (and we still do not know when) at best weakens its usefulness; in other words, we risk debating a motion in the face of an irremediably compromised situation. We know the situation of Radio Radicale, a station that for decades offers a very useful and indispensable service of transparency and openness of the institutions for the benefit of anyone who can tune in, so it is a channel really open to all. The government that promised transparency and the participation of citizens wants to cause the closure of this radio, with which there is in force a convention against which no one has ever submitted alternative or cheaper proposals, when on the part of the radio station Radicale there has always been the availability to a public contest. I see that certain races are not indicated, for example, on motorway concessions, which have expired for years now, while it prevents us from making a race for which everyone declares themselves available and closes the Radio Radicale station: it is a fact that we consider truly unacceptable. From the point of view of the dynamics of the work, we propose that the motions on Radical Radio be called into question this week. Tomorrow, the work will probably not end late and there will be plenty of time to discuss it, without even having to add one more day to the schedule of work. Discussing the Radical Radio motion when the radio would now be cut off from the convention we believe is really unacceptable, a further aspect of brutality in the act put in place against an organ that is almost a symbol of democracy in our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u23	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education in Praia a Mare, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u26	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, we do not agree with the timetable that has been decided. We also have some questions, because we have difficulty understanding how the majority and the government are moving. We were left, at the end of the work of the last session of this House, that this week we would have approved the unblocking of shipyards, which was to be a measure - at least this was presented - that would help our economy to restart. The content of this decree-law, in our view, does not go in that direction, but the parliamentary activity could have corrected and improved it, also thanks to the amending contribution of the political opposition forces. However, as is often the case, the internal divisions - the real ones and, above all, the false and supposed ones, due to the election campaign - have led to the calendarization of the vote of this measure after the European elections. As we are now accustomed to seeing, the timetable of parliamentary activity (specifically that of the Senate of the Republic) is dictated no longer by the needs of the Government, but - even worse - by those of the two Vice Presidents of the Council in the electoral campaign. On the basis of their needs, we define our timetable and our votes. This, Mr President, is objectively unacceptable. This week it would have been easy to work until Friday, meeting the commitments made and allowing the senators to campaign next week, and to start the measure towards the House of Deputies. We didn't. Even more incomprehensible is the cancellation of the question time scheduled on Thursday. I understand that now in the country there is a syndrome due to the disputes, which increasingly occur in the squares and streets of all the cities of Italy, which is finally understanding under which conditions this majority and this Government are reducing the country: the syndrome of contestation. I understand that in particular the Vice-Premier are afraid to go and talk, since there are now many Italians who dispute, but here you even get to not bring ministers to the Chamber to answer questions in the context of the question time! I wonder why? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Why can't you twist a hair to the government and its representatives? But, Mr President, this is not only our right, but also our duty and the duty of the Government is to come to this House and answer questions on time, which are, moreover, presented well in advance. Mr President, the Democratic Party has tabled a motion of no confidence, which we have asked to schedule in a short time (better than before the European elections). Why? Because we believe that there can be no two truths and therefore or the action of the Government is one, supported by the majority, and then it is clear that the political responsibility of everything that is taking place in Italy (especially in the fields of economy and work, and therefore of public debt, of the growth of the spread and of the difficulty in which our Country runs away) is of the Government and of the parties that support it (this is a truth, in my opinion the only one); or the truth is the one that is transmitted by the prudent communication of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, that is of different positions on the various measures. You tell the lies to the country and you want to pretend to have a strong dialectic between League and Movimento 5 Stars, but, together, you hit and punish the country. The motion of no confidence presented has precisely this objective, namely to tell the truth to Italy. And the truth is that League and Movimento 5 Stars, together, support this evil government in their own policies and that everything else is the result of lies and election campaign in search of consensus. So let us have the courage to bring the President of the Council here (who should assume his responsibilities before the House and the country) and put the motion of distrust to the vote. You don't want to do it: casually, President Conte - perhaps he too is in the election campaign, like the two Vice Premier - cannot come to the Senate. But Parliament is very important in a parliamentary Republic. The President-in-Office of the Council should know that and he should feel a strong duty to come and be here. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let me turn to the last question. The two proposals that we are submitting today to the vote of the Assembly are intended to include in the current week's agenda the motion of no confidence and - as Mr Malan has already proposed - the motion on Radio Radicale. You see, colleagues, there is a situation on Radical Radio that is not grotesque, but dramatic, because the government wants to put it in a position to reach the end of the convention on its knees, bending the free information in its favor, as it is doing with Rai. It therefore wants to bring it to an objective condition of great weakness. I believe that all parliamentary forces and all parliamentarians, with their individual choice of freedom and democracy, have a duty to defend Radio Radicale and we have the right to discuss it quickly, not when it suits the Government, which intends to blackmail this radio - let me use this term - which until now has been a symbol of democracy. We want it to continue to be, but the government and the majority are preventing it. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u29	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, with regard to the decree-law unblocks yards, despite the announcements of an absolutely decisive measure - a subject which has already been used enough in this election campaign, which will probably still be used in recent days - we are faced with the usual history. There is a programme of work and even a call for the amendments to be tabled very quickly, but then we are faced with a postponement after the other: nothing new, we could say, in this which has become the way of leading by the majority. I repeat this in this Chamber, as I have said and also asked for in the presence of the Government at the Conference of the Leaders: to see if an agreement will eventually be reached, everyone is waiting for the Government to table amendments, which have been announced repeatedly, that they should finally give us the light. Well, we ask here again, formally, that you do not think of presenting them on Thursday or Friday morning, because we, as an opposition, have expressed our views in the debate, without any kind of obstruction, but always and only presenting substantive arguments and amendments, and we do not want to be faced, as usual, with a radically changed measure, so that in the end we will have to table amendments in a very short time. This is the premise, because then all the movements took place because of the fact that obviously, once again, there was no agreement: perhaps there is no agreement on the works on which to appoint extraordinary Commissioners or how Divide them. This is now part of the history and sketch of this majority and of the dialectic, fake or presumed, but certainly present in the majority. Now, what is the point, Mr President? I immediately renew here the proposal that we had presented to the Conference of Leaders. As you will know, we and the Democratic Party have also tabled amendments to the decree-law unblocking yards on Radio Radicale, but motions have been tabled and Thursday we think we will not give place to the session, while we thought it could be held. According to the proposal made by Senator Malan, however, I believe that tomorrow, continuing the sitting beyond the scheduled time, we can safely place on the agenda the motion on Radical Radio in line with the decree-law on agriculture. Then there are two other issues that have disappeared, even though it has been said that a new Conference of Leaders will be held after the elections, Monday or Tuesday. Mr President, since a number of measures have been listed for the week following the elections, I renew here the urgent request to include the motion on climate change in the agenda, because I believe there is a real emergency. There is another issue that we have raised several times, concerning the motion on haddock: having taken place the third condemnation in the United States precisely on this, I believe that in the end, continuing in this way, we risk being the last country in which it is still being used. I think this is an emergency, too. Since the resolution on the bug is to be dealt with, I believe that it would be absolutely relevant - in the light of the list of all the measures - to sign up and provide for the consideration of the motion on cesium, which we have repeatedly requested both in this House and in the Conference of the Leaders. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u32	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, once again we try to convince the majority to change their minds about this work programme. We have time to discuss the important things that must be included in the timetable, also in order to respect the scope of these proposals. In particular, I refer to the two proposals presented by President Marcucci, the motion of distrust of the Government and the motion on Radio Radicale. On the motion of no confidence in the Government I add very briefly these words to those of President Marcucci: it is clear that the majority, President Conte, Lega and Movimento 5 Stars did not want to come to the Chamber to discuss whether their Government still has confidence in this Parliament because they are in clear difficulty. Maybe they chose this route for three reasons. Let's see which one you choose. The first possibility is that they do not want to discuss this motion of distrust in order to prevent this Parliament from putting its eyes on it, placing the spotlight on the economic and social damage that this Government is producing to this country. The reality is this and, therefore, will not prevent us from denouncing that the fiscal pressure, as we have written in our motion of distrust, will tend to 42.7% in 2020 and 2021, that the unemployment will tend to 11 percent in the next year, that it will be necessary a corrective maneuver of 25 billion euros in the coming months, that it is decidedly diminished - as the ABI has reminded us this morning - the demand for loans and, therefore, the companies have diminished own demands of loan in order to invest, that this Government is totally deaf regarding what today Confindustria has said, that the Italian enterprises, after the measure industry 4.0 of the Renzi governments and Gentiloni Silveri, have been able to invest 10 billions in this country. You are deaf in the face of all this. The truth is that those of numbers and numbers hurt, in fact then get hit because the real exchange is not between 2.4 and 2.04, on which you have played in the previous months, but it is between 1% of GDP that you promised this country and 0.1 percent of GDP that this country will find itself, with all the consequent difficulties. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The second possibility is that the contract is over, that you are actually cheating the voters and that you have already decided to cut this contract, but you do not have the courage to tell Italy before the elections on 26 May. The last possibility - perhaps the most true - is that you are ashamed to say that League and Movimento 5 Stars are exactly the same because a vote in this House that would restore confidence to this Government would clearly and officially testify that League and Movimento 5 Stars are the same thing, have chosen the same policies and are equally responsible for the social and economic damage that this country is suffering. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the motion on Radical Radio. There are no more words to try to push the majority of League and Movimento 5 Stars to have respect for a significant part of our cultural heritage and republican history, as is for decades Radical Radio. You know very well, Mr Malan has been reminded and taken up by his colleague Marcucci: from 21 May Radio Radicale will no longer have the funds to be able to continue to offer all of us Italian citizens the great service he has offered over the years. The theme is clear: you in the last possible week in which the Senate could deal and give a clear directive on the story, the history and the future of Radical Radio, have chosen not to give it and it is not a coincidence perhaps what was pronounced yesterday evening by Deputy Minister Salvini in terms of total disrespect for free journalism and free information in the country. You have chosen and chosen once again, voting on the calendar and against our proposal to discuss this week's motion on Radical Radio, to trample on information and then hit information to hit democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u33	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Malan, so that the Commissions do not work next week. It's not approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the calendar of the Assembly's work, made by Senators Malan, Marcucci and De Petris, aimed at calendarizing the current week the motion on Radical Radio. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, put forward by Senator Marcucci, to keep the current week running the question time. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, made by Senator Marcucci, to insert the current week's motion of distrust against the Government. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings, tabled by Senator De Petris, to schedule the motions on climate change and the setting of a timetable for the week following the European elections on 26 May. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u34	The next item is the debate on draft law 510-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Riccardi, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law which this House is preparing to examine in more detail is Article 416-b of the Criminal Code laying down rules on political-mafia electoral exchange. The rule provided for in this article is aimed at the protection of the legal good of public order - considered in its material consistency, expressed in the orderly development of the common life on which the feeling of tranquility of the civil community depends - and the need for a free exercise of the right to vote, free from any mafia bond. It is identified, therefore, as a multi-offensive offence, in view of the fact that the indebted mafia conditioning affects public order, the exercise of the right to vote and the impartiality of public administration. It is also characterized by being a multi-subjective crime of its own, given the possibility of punishing even the one who promises to bring the votes, directly or through intermediaries, necessary for the exchange. This is a danger offence which must be ascertained in relation to the concrete suitability of the Mafia promise or agreement concluded between the contractors to endanger public order. In particular, in order to configure the crime, since it is a danger offence, it is sufficient that, in the agreement on the exchange between vote and money or other utility, or the availability to satisfy the interests or needs of the association, the person who undertakes to recruit the votes is a person who exercises a widespread conditioning based on bullying and oppression, and whose voting indications are perceived outside as coming from a mafia partnership, while neither the implementation nor the explicit programming of a campaign implemented through intimidation are necessary. The crime in question is an abstract danger, a mere conduct and a fractional consumption: the case is consumed, therefore, regardless of the subsequent date of the promised; the crime is perfect and consumed already from the moment of the promise. (The sitting was suspended at 5.25 p.m. and resumed at 5.25 p.m.) The subsequent date, however, is not made criminally irrelevant: the realization of the service has various effects, such as the delayed duration of the prescription or the sub-entry of competitors into the crime. The crime in question, in the form of acceptance of the promise, can be committed by anyone, whether directly a candidate for an electoral competition, or whether he is an agent in the name and on behalf of them, provided that he is alien to a mob association. In the form of the release of the promise, in the same way, the offence may be committed by any person, even by an intermediary of the association itself, provided that it is linked to a mafia partnership or by whomever uses the modalities indicated in the third paragraph of Article 416-a of the Criminal Code. In this brief premise some of the interventions made during the proceedings relating to the crime in question have been illustrated. The bill No. 510 was incardinated at first reading at the Senate, modified to the Chamber and returned to the Senate in third reading. Let us see, therefore, in more detail, what were the changes compared to the existing legislation. Firstly, in relation to the disvalue of the conduct, for all the reasons listed above, a general tightening of the minimums and maximum edittal penalty has been achieved. Article 416-b, to date, provides for the imprisonment from six to twelve years; the draft law under consideration coordinates the basic penalty as provided for in the first paragraph of Article 416-a (reclusion from ten to fifteen years), substantially comparing the disvalue of the conduct to what is foreseen for the sanctioning treatment of the subjects belonging to the Mafia association. In addition, the number of persons active in the crime is extended. The intermediaries will also configure the crime in question, whether they are of the promoter or of the promissary. The bill further extends the objective element of the crime, through the extension of the object of the counter-performance, which may be not only the money or other utility, but also the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the association. In addition, the scope of the crime is extended, in addition to the reference to the method of Mafia intimidation, in order to configure the crime in question, also against the subjects belonging to the association itself. The draft law provides for a special effect event in cases where the person who accepted the promise of votes has been elected in the relevant electoral consultation. In these cases, the expected penalty has increased by half. Finally, the ancillary penalty of perpetual prohibition from public offices is introduced in cases of conviction for the offences provided for in the article in question. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u36	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, criminal law is a serious matter. These seven words alone should be enough to erase the peregrine will of the majority to give rise to the approval of a rule that instead of considering criminal law as a serious, complex and delicate discipline together, uses it simply as a clava, or rather as a hammer with which to forge yet another slogan whose consequences will be detrimental to the country. Criminal law, I said, is a serious matter because it, as the members of the majority should know, intervenes only when there are goods to be protected that cannot be protected by other branches of the law and intervenes on the illicits by means of that particular kind of sanction that is the penalty. Pena can mean fine, fine but also arrest, imprisonment, life sentence, or limitation of the freedom of an individual by the State; limitation of the freedom of an individual found guilty by a legitimate and legally defined system of justice, but which for this reason does not appear less serious in the economic sphere of an existence, not even, above all, in a rule of law. Criminal law, Mr President, is a serious matter and we cannot understand how the scope of these simple words, which should be appreciated and clear to all, can instead be broken against a proposal such as the one supported by the majority that we are today, despite us, debating. In spite of this, Mr President, why would we want a serious, complex and organic discipline such as criminal law to be changed with complete approximation by a majority convinced that once a good formula for social networks has been invented, it can be translated into the penal code, with all that it means and involves, with a simplicity that on other occasions it could have made smile, but in this case it makes the veins tremble to the wrists. On the contrary, it terrifies because in this specific case the penal norm is also connected to the cases in which a relationship is established between politics and the mafia, a field on which it is necessary to act with resolve, awareness and seriousness and in which instead, once again, the majority chooses to pass through some slogans, without thinking that these can be real splinters mad and that move in the legal system of the country, risking to scratch irremediably the gears. Let us be clear, President: the point here is not the general, sacrosanct principle of combating any possible electoral exchange between politics and the Mafia. The point is that, precisely because of the total lack of quality of the standard defined by the majority, one risks not being able to effectively pursue that same objective, also conveying, in a sibilline way, the message that the whole policy is negative in itself. We risk not effectively pursuing the objective because the text, as amended by the other branch of Parliament, brings back to the theme of the mafia sonship of the subjects involved not already to the awareness of those who accept the promise, but to the membership of the associations referred to in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code. A belonging that is configured only for those who are recognized as such by a judgment. Moreover, as I said, there is a risk of giving an image of politics, as always, collusion, providing for the addition introduced by the new article 416 -ter for the mere fact that the candidate who accepted the promise of votes is elected, despite the absence of behaviors that testify on his part to the maintenance of the fraudulent agreement eventually concluded, and with the addition - which implicitly suggests that even for an innocent politician the election is an evil - that, in the event of obtaining an elected office, the sentence has increased in a non proportional way. However, in this case there would still be an insurmountable problem of a probative nature, since it is necessary to ascertain that the candidate would not have been elected without the distorting effect of the gangster pressure. I don't think we need any more examples. Criminal law, President, is a discipline in which the determination of precepts, proportionality and reasonableness of punitive responses cannot be called into question. Criminal law is serious, very serious. We are aware of this and with our positions we continue to witness respect for this seriousness: a seriousness that does not reverberate directly in that of our Constitution. This majority, with its numbers, can of course decide to act as it thinks; but we are sure that this is not the way to act with responsibility and for the good of the country, and again we will not be complicit in your desire for easy consent with the inauspicious consequences. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u38	Senator Causin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u39	Mr President, I asked my Parent Company to speak on this issue mainly because there are two recent episodes that concern the territory where I reside: two very important investigations that represented a significant infiltration of the Mafia organisations in a territory that apparently was immune only until some time ago. The first survey concerns the world of the economy and relates to issues related to money laundering, which the criminal organisations have in large quantities. The other is even more unusual because it concerns the Venetian coast and, in particular, the subject of the exchange vote: a new, unique fact, which certainly surprised the public as well as the professionals. Well, when I made a complaint two years ago to the then President of the anti-Mafia Commission Rosy Bindi, in a confidential form - which then became public because our institutions are so permeable that even those who make a complaint of this type are not protected - I was laughed at; yet, the investigation confirms that the Venetian coast has been affected, in the past year, by heavy mafia infiltrations, and there is also the subject of the exchange vote. I was saying, that I am a centre-right exponent of Forza Italia, I denounced the President of the Anti-Mafia Commission, which was not done by other political forces. Therefore, this is a matter that is not owned and belongs to anyone: it belongs to the institutional and constitutional duty of a Member of Parliament, of an official public to denounce, when it is known, certain facts. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are entitled to intervene on this issue because the center-right, like the other political forces that have ruled the country in the last twenty years, has played a fundamental role in the fight against the mob. We did so when we ruled through the commitment of the Ministry of the Interior; we did so also through regulatory measures that revolutionized the fight against criminal organizations. I am thinking only of the introduction of confiscation of property to the Mafia organisations which, in addition to having yielded some EUR 30 billion to the State, has effectively compromised the operational capacity of criminal organisations. John Falcone said that to find crime you had to follow the path of money. This is the case today, partly because the centre of the right has introduced specific rules in this respect. I am still thinking of the sharpening of 41-bis, of hard prison, which, among other things, we have also been criticized by human rights organisations. Today's article reported that Raffaele Cutolo says he is sorry because he cannot embrace his daughter. Well, if a person has dozens and dozens of deaths on his conscience, even innocent ones, as happens in the shootings and civil wars of Camorra that occur in Naples, I believe that the least of the penalty is to end life inside a place where contact with family members is also precluded, therefore normal life. I think that's the least I can do. We are not for the end of life, for the death penalty, but we are for the penalties to be severe, as well as for the entire national anti-mafia plan and anti-mafia laws. Compared to all this, however, there is a limit. It is right that there should be a regulatory framework that severely punishes relations between politicians and mafia organisations, and it is right that there should be sanctions on the exchange vote and it is the work that Parliament has done in recent years. However, I am strongly perplexed - and on this announcement the critical and contrary position of Forza Italia on the measure under consideration - with respect to a way of making commercials on issues of this type. From the moment, in fact, that the penalties are already there and are important, it is abnormal, for example, to decide to impose twice the years of punishment on a person who is guilty of the very serious crime of voting for exchange, which is a more serious crime than that committed by those who lead a mob criminal organization. They are commercial laws that refer to a culture that is dangerous in Italy today, which presupposes that those who make politics - I, you, the local administrators - are potential criminals or criminals still undiscovered. I rebel against this idea of a country. Parliament and the institutions are not a den of potential criminals or occult criminals: they are places where there are people who may have been wrong and who are wrong and for this reason must be prosecuted and punished, but the Italian institutions are still guarantors of democracy, because most of those who sit in these benches and who govern the local institutions are decent people who make politics with a spirit of service and make a clear distinction between what is good and what is bad. That is why we are opposed to commercial laws, to non-direct laws, and I believe that if we go in this direction, we will bring serious damage to democratic institutions and their holding. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our democracy. We are in fact about to approve - and it will become a law of the State - a bill amending Article 416-b of the penal code in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange. This bill brings to completion and gives correct configuration to a criminal case strongly wanted by the magistrate Giovanni Falcone and introduced just under the emerging thrust of the massacre of Capaci of 23 May 1992, in one of the darkest moments in the history of our country. This is a regulatory intervention which, however, remains very topical, if we think of the arrests of the last few weeks, for example in Lombardy, the collusion of local politicians and entrepreneurs with the mobs. The analysis of the genesis of the norm is necessary because it allows us to grasp and appreciate the innovative scope of the bill that we are preparing to approve. The crime of political-mafia electoral exchange, introduced with an emergency measure, the decree-law Scotti-Martelli, converted into law on August 7, immediately after the assassination of Paolo Borsellino, proved to be soon a "zoppa" norm, as it was defined, and of little application importance. In fact, the sanctioned exchange - the unholy pact - was that between the politician and the mob who promised to get votes, having as counter-performance the only money supply. We must wait for Law No. 62 of 2014 to see the norm reworded, although this law was passed with the votes against of the Movimento 5 Stars, which strongly opposed, first of all Senator Giarrusso, as the first signatory of the bill that we are preparing to vote on and to which my personal thanks go as a member of the Senate Justice Commission, for the work done all these years. The Movimento 5 Stars opposed because they were aware of the scope once again without the necessary incisiveness of the norm, which was once again considered as an uncourageable instrument to combat the phenomenon of political-mafia electoral exchange. Surely an important step forward was taken, because finally it was punished those who accepted and who formulated the promise of mafia consents, not only in exchange for money, but also for other utilities, those dear to societyas sceleris, which thus retained the power to infiltrate in the management of the public thing and take advantage of it through the control of economic activities, concessions, authorizations, contracts and public services. However, at the same time, a resounding step backwards was also taken as important and such as to empty the preceptive content of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code. The sentence, in fact, was inexplicably reduced and the crime punished with the imprisonment from four to ten years, instead of from seven to twelve and this caused the equalization with the penalty established by Article 416-a for the crime of Mafia association. In this way the natural link between the two cases was broken, which must necessarily impose the same prison sentence, both to those who are part of the Mafia association and to those who ask for their votes, with harmful consequences in the application of the sentence. The politician incensured, in fact, with a sentence of four years cannot be arrested and condemned to the perpetual ban by the public offices - as will happen from now on, with the approval of the new bill - with the consequent end of his political activity. The rewriting of the norm could no longer be postponed, not even after the corrective intervention of the law of 2017, which saw the raising of the penalty of imprisonment from a minimum of six to a maximum of twelve years, nor could more compensate for the lack of an adequate case law intervention, which in any case in recent years has filled gaps and criticalities of the crime in question. Well, today we are faced with a new article, enriched by the passages to the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, which reconstitutes the natural relationship between this crime and that of the Mafia association, finally predicting that the penalty is the same: the imprisonment from ten to fifteen years. The criminality is extended to cases in which action is taken not only directly, but also through intermediaries, who promise to obtain the votes or accept the promise. The conduct of criminal importance is extended, as the crime is configured both in the hypothesis in which the promise comes from subjects belonging to the mafia associations, that in that in which the subjects who promise to obtain votes do it through the modus operandi of the mafia, that is the peculiar mafia method, that, among others, makes use of the force of intimidation. The counter-performance of the "unholy pact" consists not only in the provision or promise of money or any other utility, but also in the willingness to satisfy the interests and needs of the Mafia association, evidently meaning with this broad forecast all possible demands that, if satisfied by the politician, would allow the Mafia to attack and control the public thing. The penalty has increased by half if those who have accepted the promise of votes and, therefore, concluded the agreement, are elected, previewing that the sentence must always achieve the ancillary penalty of perpetual ban from the public offices. That is why, with the bill amending Article 416-b, we finally return to guarantee the right of every citizen to express a personal and equal vote, but above all free and secret and that cannot be limited except in the cases provided for in the law, as provided for in our dear Constitutional Charter, to Article 48. Finally, I would like to point out that the vote in favour of the new crime of mafia political exchange also marks a new era, confirming the Government of Change and we hope that we will also come back to this House to be ashamed of politicians collused with pieces of organised crime. As the Movimento 5 Stars has always said, even irrationally, in this House: outside the Mafia from the State! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u43	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to the speech by my colleague from Movimento 5 Stars, who spoke on a historic day. However, I would not like it to be an historic day for our justice, as it was for Napoleon, in June 1815, on Waterloo's day. I am referring in particular to this way of law-making, because if on the one hand there is no one who does not see how absolutely important it is to oppose the vote on the Mafia's political electoral exchange, on the other hand we cannot fail to take into account the organic structure of our penal code. That is something that needs to be taken into account and which I shall be talking about shortly. However, I would like to clear the field from those who think and believe that Forza Italia has not fought a real, strong and serious battle against organized crime: we have done so against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, the sacred united crown, all the bad organizations, as they testify to the parliamentary acts and especially the measures taken by the Berlusconi Government. I would like to remind you that the first Berlusconi Government, which was established in May 1994, made the first provision in June of the same year to confiscate property to the mafias and at the time it was an enlarged confiscation. Then we continued - as my colleague Mr Causin pointed out - with the inclusion of Article 41- bis in the prison order on the hard prison against the Mafia and with the international agreements that have followed in order to allow extradition; and I add the strengthening of prevention measures. I could continue on this point for a long time, but I would simply point out that we obviously do not agree - it would be crazy if that were the case - with a weakening of the rules on the vote on political-mafia electoral exchange, but we cannot hide behind a system that - as I recalled - must be protected, that is, that of our penal code. I am therefore expressing a calm outrage at this way of law-making. I have to think about what President Conte said in his first speech during his inauguration, when in the matter of justice he spoke - perhaps he did a slip - of presumption of guilt on the part of the citizens. If that is the point from which this legislation starts, I believe that we cannot agree, because Forza Italia but also other political forces are a bastion to defend the principles of guarantee of our system. We are here to criticize this plant because, if we take into account Articles 416-a and 416-b in the aggravated hypothesis, we immediately realize that the politician who commits this hypothesis of crime - or it is assumed that he has committed it - risks an infinitely higher penalty, i.e. up to twenty-two and a half years of imprisonment, than those who belong to the criminal organization. This would be enough to ask the House for a moment of reflection and above all to consider the principles that govern our order, because we are really witnessing a madness of our system. The case referred to in Article 416-b may therefore not provide for a higher penalty than that provided for in Article 416-a. This is really crazy. This way of lawmaking is explained by what appears in a video that we have all seen and that goes crazy on YouTube during which a 5 Star Member points out that the norm must be vague. The rule must not be exhaustive and must not respond to the fundamental principles: it is absolutely ridiculous; if there is one thing that must qualify the criminal law and that above all it must be clear is its very clear and precise direction. The consequence of this way of law-making is that we are dealing with a completely unacceptable measure. I would like to remind you that we are faced with an incriminating rule and, when a rule is such - I say this to colleagues - it must respond not only to the principles set out in Articles 1, 42 and 43 of the penal code, but also to the constitutional principles. I would like to recall very quickly what these articles provide for. If we want to legislate, we must also have the capacity to do so and we must not forget the general principles. Article 1 of the Penal Code reads as follows: "No one can be punished for a fact that is not expressly provided for as a crime by law, nor with penalties that are not established by it." Article 42 reads as follows: "No one can be punished for an action or omission foreseen by law as a crime, if he has not committed it with conscience and will." Article 43 deals with the subjective element of the crime: principles of legality, taxability and determination of the criminal law. If we do not want to deal with the subjective element of the crime or the re-educational element provided for in our Constitution, when we go to legislate we should remain within this track; otherwise - let me say - we do something else: we operate in a sloganistic way, we operate commercials and we atomize a norm of the penal code, we remove it from the code itself, we modify it and imagine what such a code can become. If we take a rule and increase our sentence, we do not benefit from the entire system of our penal code, which in that case risks becoming genetically modified. This isn't good for our system. When we see this type of operation, we can think of that doctor who did certain experiments with human bodies: he attacked his arms, then his legs, then an eye. We risk turning this House into a sort of Dr Frankenstein of the penal code: working outside the basic principles we risk becoming one. In fact, for the comedy vis that I have heard and I have also warned in the last articles that have been published in the newspapers - all of you have read them - I think that it is not even Dr. Frankenstein of Mary Shelley, but Dr. Frankenstin of Mel Brooks, because we are really ridiculous. By operating in this way we are outside the principles of civilization that characterize our order. That is why we are going to vote against this measure and that is why we are going to remain a bulwark to defend the guarantees of the process and also to guarantee legislation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u44	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u45	Mr President, I do not think it is possible for anyone, Mr President, members of the Government, to deny that the vote of exchange is one of the most serious vulnus of our democracy, because it profoundly alters the right to vote which is a difficult achievement, but which has now become the real heritage of all. It is not enough to be able to vote to say that democracy is achieved, but it is necessary to be able to vote freely. And there is no doubt that behind the vote of exchange there are - as the measure before us presents it - all the blackmail, persuasion and seduction that derive from the structures of the mafia-type organizations. We have a very dangerous interlocutor, someone who presents himself to a certainly weaker person and who is perceived as inadequate to achieve the objective that defines his role as a Member of Parliament, namely the ability to obtain consensus among his potential voters. The dangerous subject suggests a shortcut: he does and can obviously do it because the other thinks he is not able to provide for himself the consent he needs. He does so with a manipulation operation with which he identifies the weak subject and then proposes to him what could be the realization of his desire: the package of exchange votes. But there is also no doubt that in this alliance - more properly it is a sort of criminal association, a truly criminal pact - that is created between one and the other also the candidate who takes the initiative to go to seek the votes not one by one, but bribe bribe, package package, is a person who expresses a substantial disdain for his voters. What I am interested in acquiring to the cause that I support is not the singularity of the voter I have before me, but the anonymity of the group to which I think I bring a kind of benefit and conditioning. This structure sometimes makes it very difficult to understand who is really the corrupt and who is the corrupt; whether the corrupt is the parliamentarians or whether the parliamentarians is somehow the corruptor and, vice versa, whether the mob association is the one that suffers, cashing in, this form of corruption, or whether - in reality - it is the one that induces corrupt behavior in the politician. What is certain is that, on the one hand and on the other - corrupt and corrupt - we are faced with a pathology that we can consider very serious, definitely contagious and - theoretically - appears almost incurable. There is that beautiful document, written by Pope Francis when he was still the Archbishop of Buenos Aires, entitled: "Healing from Corruption." I wonder if the draft law under consideration, with the changes made by the House of Deputies, is an instrument that helps to heal from corruption, restoring to politics the dignity of those who vote and of those who are voted. However, in this blunder that has been done the only thing that emerges is that there is a substantial conflict of interest between one another and the heavier price is paid by the citizens themselves. I am referring specifically to three aspects introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies. The first is that there is no need for the politician who accepts to know that the one who is making a certain proposal to him is a mafia. In the previous version it was essential what could be called a variant of informed consent. In other words, I accept the proposal you make to me because I am informed and I know that you who are making it to me are mafia and, therefore, I also have the antibodies to defend myself (or, if I do not want to defend myself, I have the awareness of what I am going to do). All this fails, because it is up to him to investigate whether those who are proposing to him a kind of pre-election alliance are mafia or not. Of course, it is clear that he may be able to identify the membership of the person who is the intermediary (this is the second aspect on which he spoke in the Chamber of Deputies). May I ask whether the intermediary belongs to a thigh, is the spokesperson, or - simply - is it a personal impression, how many times it happens and how we all know in relation to the mundane credit? We all know people who tell us: don't worry, I know that environment, that situation and that context, from which you can get 100, 200, 300, 1,000, 2,000 or 3,000 votes. There are a lot of people who make a huge amount of credit and who, in fact, are in no way capable of achieving that kind of promise at zero exchange. However, you don't know if the person who's making you a certain promise is actually mafia or not. It's up to you to investigate. It is up to you, in the context and in the context of the complexity of the situations that occur in an election campaign, to know who the other one is in front of you and to verify the situations, circumstances and conditions, taking into account that this can be very difficult, unless there is actually that mob mode and blackmail expressly and explicitly built on a reality for which you cannot fail to give me what I am asking for. And then we understand perfectly that it is not even a vow of exchange, but simply an appropriation of the will of the other, which must be surrendered to those who do not promise him, but asks him something (which would then be the soul, if we had before the story of Goethe in the "Faust", present in the imagination of all, because of this). In this condition, the politician who accepts the exchange is selling his soul. Once you have sold your soul, from that moment on, your reliability is close to zero, because you will be and will be constantly in a climate of conditioning and blackmail. Now, the introduction of these two elements into the bill under consideration increases the distance between the person applying for any election and the context, which is no longer civil society, but the worst of the civilization, represented by this sick society, deeply aggressive and violent; with the amendments, therefore, this is made more distant. There is no longer a direct relationship, in fact, but there is the intermediary, and there is no longer a concrete knowledge, but a mere supposition and, therefore, also an obligation of analysis. I am deeply surprised by these aspects, because in fact they greatly limit freedom and responsibility and, therefore, the subject's awareness of this. I believe that from this point of view - as has been explained by my previous colleagues - the measure under consideration, instead of improving the possibility of denouncing such a thing, makes it more smoky and foggy and, therefore, makes it difficult also to satisfy that pact of pulcritude and loyalty that should exist between a citizen and his constituents. That is why - as has already been made clear by my colleagues - we will vote against this. However, I wonder whether the measures to be taken should be based less on the punitive dimension and more on the preventive one and whether it should not change the entire political climate, increasingly poisoned and conditioned, expression of a mafia aggressiveness, even if it is not directly from the mafia that comes, but from someone who has taken on its lifestyle and behaviour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between politics and the Mafia is certainly one of the most alarming phenomena in our country's history. For this reason, we need to raise the level of guard by means of legislative measures that can affect the phenomenon. Today we are finally doing so with the forthcoming adoption of this measure, which I consider to be an important signal of Parliament's determination to combat the new mafias. I only say on this article that, with the new formulation of the case in the matter of political-mafia electoral exchange, we are finally going to hit the phenomenon, picking up the sanctioning scope and paying attention to the profile of the behaviour of the political subject. These are too harsh rules, it has been said from some political point of view: most of the time it has been those parts that news reports and judicial acts have shown us to be the most affected by the collusions and penetrations of the Italian mafias. This measure is not excessive, ladies and gentlemen, but simply adapted to the critical and dramatic situation. There is certainly an economic interest in pushing too many politicians to make their powers and prerogatives available to the mobs. But - as the Italian events well illustrate - there is almost always an electoral interest: the need to collect votes, a phenomenon that now affects elected representatives at every level of public life, from that of the Municipalities to Parliaments, both national and European. The municipalities? Let's talk about it, but without inflaming, going to analyze the data that comes to us from the front of the local authorities dissolved for mafia infiltrations: a problem that has assumed extraordinarily important dimensions for our democratic system. Suffice it to say that, out of a total of 319 decrees issued since 1991, 112 are included in the period between 2012 and 2018. These figures confirm our emergency, the scope and extent of that terrible mortal embrace, and force us to reflect on what the mafias are today and what becomes politics. Paolo Borsellino said that politics and mafia are two powers that live on the control of the same territory: they make war or agree. Given that this distinction between mafias and politicians collusion on that particular territory can still be valid today, I ask a question: are we all here to wage war on the mafias? Data on infiltrations in local authorities do not seem to show consistent attitudes on the part of political forces that have tolerated and tolerate internal presence of those administrators who have been accused. They do not seem to show genuine anti-mafia commitment the parties brought into play even from the most recent chronicles for cases that have invested or are investing in the parliamentary level. Do we want to remember the case of Congressman Francantonio Genovese, who was first sentenced to 11 years in prison in 2017? Former regional secretary of the Democratic Party, according to news reports, he still manages a package of 20,000 votes. Yet, although today it is again under investigation for crimes of association aimed at electoral corruption, the same Genovese, which should affect as a case the colleagues of the Democratic Party, as usual all too often distracted on the problem of the mob... MIRABELLI (PD). You didn't study well. DI NICOLA (M5S). ...the same Genovese and his entourage would be securing that package of votes to a gentleman named Angelo Gioachino Gaetano Attaguele, currently a candidate for the European elections after a tortuous political career. Be careful because he was not a candidate without, in turn, being involved in a wider investigation by the Imerese Public Prosecutor also on an exchange voting system, which even involves about 100 regional councillors, MPs, mayors and municipal administrators. Of course, we could be reassured by the distance taken by important members of the party in which Attaguele is a candidate. Singular - not to say bizarre - are instead the justifications of the candidate Attaguele who, between last night and this morning, feels authorized to say, referring to Genovese, that political relations with personal and friendship should not be confused. The latter - says Attaguele - in private life have been and will always be a firm point. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Let's forget the meaning that these words can take on the land of friends of friends. They are certainly perplexing and should further warn all observers. Citizens have the right to clarity and transparency. Therefore, I say: other than exaggerated measure; you have to hit hard. The Mafia votes and makes to vote even today, as evidenced by the story of Mr Galati in the last legislature, elected in the PDL and investigated for external competition in Mafia association and by the District Anti-Mafia Directorate of Catanzaro, considered by the members of the affected thigh as a politician at their disposal, in return - of course - of a constant electoral commitment. We must therefore approve the rule at our examination because we are faced with transformations of criminal apparatus that confuse the boundaries that divide them from the elected and the highest expressions of the ruling class. More and more they are indeed the same: expression of those incensured mafias that, as in the case of the former vice president of Confindustria, Antonello Montante, brought to light by journalist Attilio Bolzoni, in the general silences of a complacent system that embraced magistrates, bankers, journalists, exponents of the secret services, of course politicians and even former ministers of the interior. They are the expression of those incensured mafias - in my opinion - no longer classified as anti-state, tending themselves to form and become a state, perhaps under the cover of Masonic lodges already discovered by the magistrates, whose lists were acquired by Parliament through the parliamentary anti-Mafia Commission. Yes, therefore, to the measure under consideration, Mr President, important and necessary, confirms the absolute commitment of Movimento 5 Stars in the fight against the political activities of Mafia SpA. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u48	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the speeches made by my colleagues in the Group and, in particular, by Senators Evangelista and Di Nicola. I should like to say something about the reconstruction that has been made of the commitment that seems to have been born only now, for a few months, of Parliament and, in particular, of the Movimento 5 Stars, with reference to the fight against the mob. Mrs Evangelista rightly in her speech started from the massacres of Falcone and Borsellino, which we remember every year and which are written in our hearts in an indelible way. He recalled the legislation La Torre, then he jumped and left a hole to which not partially - it is in fact a lot of stuff - my colleagues Aimi and Causin referred in their speeches. I would then like to use the ten minutes at my disposal to fill this hole, a kind of emptiness of memory, which I believe should be kept in mind if we are talking about something that affects all of us, which is obviously the fight against organised crime. The important and first Decree-Law No 399 of 1994 - among other things, it is on 20 June, the day of my birthday - also recalled by my colleague Aimi, was aimed at preventing those accused and convicted of serious crimes of organized crime from having the disposition of their assets. It is a decree-law that was made by the center-right government, President Berlusconi, and of course it was with us the League that I think can claim the action that was done also in those years. It was not only important for the legislation to remove the possibility of using assets - a legislation that still remains the most important and has not been touched or modified - but also the reversal of the burden of proof. That was the most important issue. If the condemned and the accused did not prove their origin, or even if there was an interposed person, the extended confiscation was carried out; above all the so-called etiological connection was not called into question. 18.16 (Modena follow). It has rightly been referred to Article 41-a, that is to say to hard prison. We must also honestly remember that this measure was introduced in the first place in an emerging and later, also through the signatures of our parliamentarians when the governments were of center-left - I remember, for example, when there was D'Alema in the government - it was extended from year to year and became permanent as a disposition when the Minister of Justice was Castles of the League in 2002, always with the Berlusconi Government. These operations have brought the beauty of 30 billion confiscated assets to the state's coffers, a figure comparable to a budget maneuver. The National Agency, always established through this legislation, has 16,874 assets in management, 15,655 distinct properties, 2,976 companies, 952 already destined. This is the result of the struggle done through the legislative measures with the majorities of the center-right. I would like to remind you that there is nothing between Falcone and Movimento 5 Stars, but there is a history of a country and governments that have nevertheless fought against organized crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The Mafia Procurator Grasso publicly declared that he would give a prize to Berlusconi and his Government for the laws introduced in the fight against the Mafia. This is reflected in all the statements that have been made. Let's move on. The Berlusconi right-wing government has approved the urgent provisions for the victims of the mob; it has ratified - as my colleague Mr Aimi has mentioned - the United Nations Conventions against transactional crime (these phenomena must now be beaten in this way); it has signed agreements at European level both for the European Police Office and for the so-called Eurojust structure. Berlusconi, indeed the Government and therefore the Parliament, voting the laws in 2008, have extended the legislation not only to the mafia, but also to the 'ndrangheta. Priority has been given to trials in the roles of hearing, so that they are done immediately; the prohibition of plea settlement has been introduced; the legislation on the DIA and the National Anti-Mafia Public Prosecutor has been implemented with reference to the verification of contracts and the powers of the prefects. In 2010 the rules were approved to avoid the mafia infiltrations of the 'ndrangheta in cases of reconstruction after the earthquake. 2010 and 2011 are the extraordinary plan against the Mafia and the anti-Mafia code. The ban on the conduct of electoral propaganda for those investigated for mafia phenomena has also been introduced. In 2010, the Fund for Solidarity with Victims was established and then the anti-racket fund was followed. To this is added a series of initiatives by our parliamentarians: legal aid for the crimes in question has been removed; the power of the anti-Mafia prosecutor has been increased - I remember it - and about 3,000 fugitives have been arrested; the Commissions of inquiry have been promoted since the beginning, by the honourable Members before Della Valle and then La Loggia. I think, therefore, that there should be at least intellectual honesty in this House not to think that before 14 March last year there was nothing about the fight against the mob. There has been the work of so many people like us who deserve respect. And above all, it cannot be said that with the arrival of the 5 Star MPs the fight against the Mafia has finally arrived. No: fortunately, today we are talking about legislation that has built the history, from the massacres onwards, of the fight against organized crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with an important issue that affects the level of trust that citizens place in the institutions, namely the relationship between the mafia and politics, a relationship that has been denied for many years and which is still too often being minimized. I was brought into play by Senator Modena's previous intervention for what you can safely consider a fake news, in the sense that I have never given any prizes to Berlusconi and his Government. Anyone who can or wants to listen to the recording of the aforementioned interview at the broadcast "The mosquito," released during the period when I was a national anti-mafia prosecutor, can only find that I acknowledged that I had finally received a request that was even by Giovanni Falcone and dated back to the period when the law on the creation of the Anti-Mafia District Direction and the National Anti-Mafia Directorate was launched, in which I participated and collaborated because I was then working at the Ministry of Justice. In the broadcast I noted the fact that finally it had been included among the competences of the anti-mafia district management also the topic of personal and patrimonial prevention measures. The journalist then said that we should give a prize to Berlusconi and I replied that it was a result obtained at my request to try to regularize the legislation. So, excuse me, Senator Modena, but the fairy tale of the award to President Berlusconi is a journalistic news that needs to be clarified. Thank you for finally giving me the opportunity to do this publicly. I invite you to go listen to that recording on YouTube. Article 416-b of the penal code regulates the crime of political mafia exchange: this is a crime that - as has already been said - was introduced by the decree-law Scotti-Martelli after the massacres of Capaci and Via D'Amelio. It has been the subject of successive changes resulting from a wide-ranging debate and is born to punish the forms of contiguity between candidates and organised crime; to implement, in essence, Article 51 of the Constitution in full that access to public office must take place under conditions of effective equality, a fundamental aspect for a real representative democracy. The amendment made in the previous parliamentary term, which introduced the other benefits in addition to the giving of money (but with a promise of obtaining votes in a mafia manner), required Parliament's further assessment of the wording of this rule. In fact, it was necessary to overcome all the problems related to the jurisprudential interpretations of that reference to the Mafia method in the promise, which no longer made it a truly efficient and balanced instrument of contrast. What do you want to punish, in a nutshell? The agreement between a politician and belonging to the mafias that is based on a do ut des, an exchange: I bring you the votes, you in return will do some good things for me. To limit oneself to the exchange of money was not enough, and for this reason it was useful to include, in the previous legislature, the other utilities in addition to the money, and this was certainly a positive thing. It is clear, in fact, that it was rather asfittic a norm that imagines a politician offering only money to those who bring him the votes, but even more a mobster content himself only with a counter-performance in money that exhausted the mafia-political relationship. Well, the surveys that have been in the pages of our newspapers for many years tell of promises - alas often maintained - of public procurement, supplies, concessions, jobs. From this point of view I therefore consider it important to have further extended the object of the counter-performance of those who hold a political office to the general willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the Mafia association in order to include also behaviors not expressly listed. In the text dismissed by the Senate at first reading, it was sanctioned the achievement of the promise of electoral support by subjects whose membership of criminal associations of the mafia is known to the contracting party. In this sense, today's proposal has improved because, in my opinion, it has eliminated that necessary notoriety: it leaves to the judiciary the task of clarifying when the interlocutor of the politician can be defined as belonging to the Mafia association, thus allowing a wider range of repression, including the possibility that the Mafia has been condemned not only by judgment of first instance or passed into judgment, but also possibly subject to personal and patrimonial prevention measures that we know can be imposed without a conviction. To demand in the politician, as the norm had been interpreted so far, the awareness that the taking of votes took place in mafia mode would continue to make it difficult, if not diabolical, proof of wrongdoing. From the point of view of sanctions, the sentence is increased, from the imprisonment from six to twelve years to the imprisonment from ten to fifteen years, and with the same penalty is punished the conduct of the subject who promises, directly or through intermediaries, to obtain the votes. Also this incident, positively introduced to the House (it was not present in the text of the Senate), acknowledges the possibility of intervening in chores and intermediaries in this relationship between mafia and politics. An event is also planned: if those who have concluded the agreement with the Mafia are elected, the penalty for the political-mafia electoral exchange has increased by half. Although I fully agree with the seriousness of the crime from the point of view of the serious disturbance in the democratic security of the country, I believe - and I have already said this before, when the bill passed in this Senate Chamber - that this dry increase of half, which unfortunately does not have any deterrent effect, would not be consistent with the principle of proportionality of the whole sanctioning system. I agree with those who have made this point. In this respect, I have pointed out several times during the examination in the Senate, including by tabling amendments, that I believe it would be more appropriate to refer to the increase in penalty provided for by the common aggravating agents, i.e. up to a third. This would have left the judge a wider discretion in the application which, in my opinion, it is always useful to maintain. On the other hand - and on this point perhaps more careful systemic reflection would be necessary and appropriate - the attack, as formulated in the text we are debating today, could lead to higher penalties for the political-mafia electoral pact than both the external competition in Mafia association and participation in association and even the penalties provided for the heads of the organization, which, as I said, seems to me an unjustified disproportion. I conclude by saying that it is fundamental and more than shared the imposition of the ancillary penalty of perpetual ban from public offices in case of conviction for the crime in question: those who have committed such crimes are not worthy to participate in the management of the public thing. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is still much to be done when we consider the fact that many municipalities have been repeatedly dissolved for mafia infiltration, a reality that is difficult to eliminate despite the use of successive local electoral competitions. It is our duty to support the fight against organised crime in all its forms, to deepen its evolution, to adapt the legislative system to the rapid transformations of organisations, to provide the judiciary with every useful tool and personal police forces and means to do their best. It is our duty to combat trafficking, the business that enriches the mafias, in general to prevent all forms of illicit enrichment, recycling and avoidance of responsibility for anyone who is criminal; we must do so. It must be done with good laws and virtuous behavior, never underestimating the dramatic impact that the culture of lawlessness has on our community. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u52	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, on which we have heard so many speeches, in fact makes an excellent text worse: our text, which had been adopted in the last parliamentary term, a text known as the reform of Article 416-b of the penal code, which had already had a good application and was already on the agenda of the work of all anti-mafia prosecutors. I repeat this in a distracted and silent Assembly, because in previous speeches a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars has thought to rebuke the Democratic Party of distraction: never and never has the Democratic Party been distracted on the themes of the Mafia, so much so that the reform of article 416-b of the penal code is the result of our work and action of our Government in the last legislature. Distracted against crime never! [[Applause from the PD Group]] The real point is the new wording that you have put in place, a new dangerous formulation: there is a risk that confusion will return, that interpretative uncertainty will increase, with the consequence that it will become increasingly difficult to identify and punish those responsible for this crime. A colleague or a Senate group is not telling you this, but many prosecutors of the Republic, including the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, have repeated this to you in various hearings. It will be more difficult to identify and punish those responsible for this crime and I explain why. I am referring, above all, to the amendment of the first paragraph of Article 416-b. Today, for the crime of political-mafia electoral exchange to occur, it is sufficient that the exchange itself takes place with the mafia method, while the text that aims to introduce puts the different condition of belonging to a mafia-style organization of the one who promises to obtain the votes. This means not only restricting the area of criminality, but also making it much more difficult to identify criminal conduct and thus prosecute it in court. I put rhetorical questions, so much so in the Justice Commission we have debated them for a long time and none of you - indeed none of you, colleagues - has been able to answer these doubts. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how do you identify a subject belonging to a mob association? It is not necessary to have seen a thousand times the film "The godfather" or many other films, also used to denigrate the Italians, to know what kind of secret, ominous and absolutely tacit context is used by the members of these organizations. So, complicated conduct complicates identification. I therefore wonder if it will be necessary to have a previous judgment passed in court to identify the author of the crime. It is not known, because you have not answered us either in the Commission or in the speeches I have heard in this House. That is why the text is seriously inadequate on this point and leaves an alea difficult to interpret. I am silent on the many profiles of unconstitutionality, because they are more than one. For example, the text shares very different conducts with regard to the determination of the penalty, even if they are all serious. We do not exploit, we do not invent things: they are all conducted to be pursued dutyfully. I am thinking, for example, of the second paragraph of Article 416-b, relating to the figure of intermediaries or, again, the new third paragraph of Article 416-b, which punishes the elected person in a more serious way than the same person convicted by a mob association within the meaning of Article 416-a. They are all profiles that it is certainly legitimate to deepen, but always and only in compliance with the constitutional principles, which must govern all the writing of criminal rules. We cannot derogate from the constitutional principles, especially in criminal matters, but now, after more than a year of work in this House, we have become accustomed and know you, colleagues of the majority; we have long understood your superficial method of working. For you, criminal law is not the instrument with which to give effect to the defense of legality and the fight against all mafias, but exclusively, as we have seen a thousand times, an instrument of propaganda and perennial electoral campaign, with proclamations, headlines in newspapers and big words of the type: "Do not go back" means "do not stop" means "do not stop" or "do not stop" means "do not They're in jail, they're handcuffs, they're handcuffs, we're gonna take them back to their homes. You absolutely do not want to put in place effective strategies to combat organised crime and not even implement concrete security policies: you only want to feed the lower instincts of public opinion and the anti-political feeling of flag rules, which, as I have already explained, really weaken the fight against mafias. Justiceism and handcuffs, handcuffs and justiceism: criminal law for you is a propaganda shortcut, useful for your perennial election campaign. Of course you need propaganda. You really need it. You need criminal populism and the use of criminal law for your programs. I am thinking of the law that is now widely defined in legal circles as "legitimate revenge"; I am thinking of the constant and continuous violation of human rights that lies in your texts: first example of all the violation of the human body through that horror of proposal on chemical castration. They are all arguments used as weapons of mass distraction so that newspapers can make headlines, so that talk shows can talk and not put everything you don't do under the investigating eye of the Italians who will soon come back to vote. Don't do anything about the economy, don't do anything about development, don't do anything about work. At lunchtime I went shopping and at the register I saw a very sad scene, Mr President: two of the cashiers spoke to each other about the dispute concerning Auchan, which was bought by Conad. They wondered if she would go first via Giovanna or Carlo; the first said that one is fixed-term, so she would leave first; the other replied that perhaps she could take the decree-law dignity. Here is the dignity that you have built, the dignity that workers are counting on who is more precarious than others, who will go back to hunger before others. Luckily, however, the average housewife (I belong to this category) has ears and understands that you only do propaganda. Returning to the text under discussion, we were not alone - and I have already told you - in this case too, to highlight its criticalities. The National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor called you back in the hearings and you didn't listen to her: why didn't you listen to the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor? Explain it. I hope in a serious replica on the points, not in the usual fuffa. The prosecutor reminded you of the risks associated with the adoption of this text, which are those of less effective repression of very serious conduct that undermines at the root the relationship of political representation and therefore the quality of our democracy. Let us always return to this point: what you want to undermine is the quality of our democracy, our guarantees, the democratic representation of this Parliament and these institutions. Nothing amazes us, nothing new, we know it well and every day you prove it to us. You don't care about democracy, you don't care about the entire constitutional system that you constantly pick up; you don't care about Italy, you don't care about the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u54	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u55	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today, with this third parliamentary passage, we are finally approving this important amendment to Article 416-b of the Criminal Code, which, as far as we are concerned, will bring an effective, common sense rule into our system and which will also move in the wake of the general-preventive function of a criminal law. Before making a few comments on the text under consideration and more systemic considerations, I would like to say that propaganda is also a moment of democracy, then clearly everyone does it with the weapons and with the arguments he believes. For example, we defend our country from the indiscriminate invasion, you say that violence on the human body is not good, but then, for example, you support the practice, of the uterus for rent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] You have spoken, through the Secretary of the Zingaretti Democratic Party, of more health for all and we know how it ended in Umbria for example [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Everyone therefore uses the arguments he believes to make available to the country, also because we are in perfect harmony with those housewives that represent authentic Italy, to which we speak. Coming to the text of the norm, we believe that it is a common sense rule that will serve the legal order, the judiciary, the judges and the law enforcement forces, because it will help to defend the institutions from the invasion of organised crime, from the mafias. We also move - I won't want the friends of Forza Italia - among many self-celebrations, which evidently didn't produce the results that perhaps were hoped for, and among the fake news that brought out Senator Grasso. We believe that this is a common sense rule, because it also provides for sanctions to be imposed on intermediaries to intervene. We believe that the norm is common sense because it provides to sanction the cases in which the promise of votes is made by the subject belonging to the mob association or in the mob mode: we believe that this too is an element of reflection. We believe that it is also common sense that the counter-performance to the promise of vows is not only the provision or promise of money or any other utility, but also the willingness to satisfy the interests or needs of the mob association. Therefore, to those who look at performance, or the promise of votes, I ask that we also look at counter-performance and wonder why a politician should ever accept vows on promise of money, on promise of utility or on the basis of willingness to meet the needs of a mob association. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We believe that it is also common sense to increase the sentence from six to twelve years to ten to fifteen years and we believe that even the aggression of the event can pursue the same function. We agree that, at a time when a politician is convicted of this crime, he must no longer set foot in the institutions. We also want this to be seen in a broader context, because in order to make the fight against organised crime as effective as possible, a rule such as this is important, but it is important that overall action - as this Government is doing - is put in place in a forward-looking, strategic and I would also say priority over any other action that a programme agenda can put at its centre. Politics must therefore not only be distant from the Mafia, but we believe that it must fight the Mafia with all the instruments at its disposal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have a very recent example of a measure which we have also discussed in this House and which is today the law, the so-called security decree. Many people often see the idea that the security decree has rightly - and also effectively - only dealt with the fight against illegal immigration, but there is a very important chapter that is dedicated precisely to the fight against organised crime. I would like to remind you that the strengthening of the Agency for the administration and the destination of property seized and confiscated to organized crime is contained within the Security Decree, where it is expected to branch out the same agency throughout the national territory and its release from the constraints of spending on the recruitment of personnel, and the possibility of selling the property confiscated to the mafia to hit the heart of the mafia, subtracting the dirty money that could conquer only and only through criminal activity. That is why we believe that we must not give up anything on the fight against drugs, because fighting drugs means fighting against the mafia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Hitting the mafia to the heart also means demonstrating with the laws and especially with the behaviors that the mafia is vulnerable. Falcone said that the Mafia, being a human phenomenon, is destined to die, because precisely there is the possibility of defeating it. Therefore we do not understand, for example, when someone is scandalized if a Minister, on 25 April, goes to Corleone to inaugurate a police station, because we must continue to free this country from who today is the real invader. Before concluding, I would like to point out how, in our opinion, a systemic match can lead a state to prevail over organized crime and - we are convinced of this - to defeat the Mafia, not with theorems, justiceism, suppositions and, much less, media processes and the press. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We believe that the Mafia can and must defeat with other instruments. Let me also quote Falcone here, who said that suspicion is the antechamber of slander; for this reason we need rules that, whether they are acceptable or not, are well-written and clearly written, which can indicate to the national community what they intend to do for certain criminal cases. We are also convinced that the Mafia can and must defeat on two other levels: first in consciences and with the consciences of Italians and, then, with resources, rules and laws. Defeat in and with the consciences of the Italians means that the State must form the sons of Italy who have awareness and awareness of the social disvalue of organized crime and the mafia and this is what is being done with the introduction in schools of the teaching of civic education (i.e. education to legality). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Defeating with resources, rules and laws means instead putting the judiciary and the forces of order in the condition of doing their job to the full, first in investigations - which must be effective - and then in trials, with speed and justice. This is a challenge to which we want to strive and we are convinced that we can overcome it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Who gives way to propaganda thinking that it is the way to defeat the mafia does not know that it does good to the mafia, because the mafia of propaganda lives and propaganda does not die. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u57	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the reasons for the fact that the majority parties - and not only - consider this new rewording of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code to be necessary and useful. I believe that an incriminating rule has been created, but this Government and this majority have not been able to link to the necessary rules that must coexist in a rule of law. You have violated the substantive norms (the ones on legality, fiscality and determination) and - even more so - you have violated the constitutional norms on the impossibility of being condemned for crimes not provided for by law, which privileges the right to defence over all and provides that the penalty must have a reeducational value and, above all, that the overall system is characterized by proportionality and reasonableness. You have done all this not only by violating the substantive and constitutional rules, but also by passing on the message that those who do not vote for this rule are in favour of the Mafia and those who vote for it are against the Mafia. This is a sneaky message, which does not correspond to the truth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like to point out - only for the sake of my own memory, I certainly hope not of my colleagues - that the Berlusconi governments were the ones that produced the most rules for combating organised crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We take note today of the resistance of Senator Grasso and remember only that for seven years his statements have remained incardinated on the press without him ever saying a word to fail to what has been declared. Grasso (Misto-Leu). That's not true! VITALI (FI-BP). It's never too late, Master Manzi said. I would like to recall: the introduction of the legislation establishing the confiscation of property to the Mafia; Article 12-e of the so-called extended confiscation, which reversed the burden of proof, so it was the Mafia who had to prove the adequacy of the assets possessed with respect to the contribution capacity; the 30 billion euros of assets seized against organised crime in the Berlusconi governments, which have already reminded colleagues; the exclusion of legal aid for the Mafia; the increase of powers for the anti-Mafia prosecutor; the capture of 3,000 fugitives; the unique code of anti-Mafia laws. The speaker was then the rapporteur in the Chamber of Deputies for the amendment of Rule 41-a, which made the detention last for the mobs effective and permanent. This means fighting organised crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] You have established a principle that acceptance or promise will be punished even if put into effect in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 416-a and not only if it comes from members of the flock. In essence, you have turned a crime of your own - the one committed exclusively by the belonging to the thigh - into a common crime, which can also be committed by those who are not part of the thigh. Today we invite you to reflect on an amendment that you have rejected and that we have retabled today, which concerns anyone who accepts the promise to obtain votes from subjects who make use of the modalities referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a or of whom one has the awareness of belonging to the associations referred to in Article 416-a (there must be awareness). Even more comical is what is laid down in the third paragraph, in which the wording of the proposed act is not entirely clear and poses an interpretative problem: should the election have taken place thanks to the support of the mob association or is it only necessary that there has been a contribution? In essence, must the contribution of the Mafia association have been decisive or is it sufficient that it has been there? This is not said, leaving its assessment to the interpretation of the magistrates. You are focusing exclusively on the increase in penalties, on inaccessibility to prison benefits, on one with the suspension of the time limits for the prescription, in spite of the reasonable duration of the trial, while there would be a need for intervention on prisons, yet there is nothing on the part of this Government about prisons, which today suffer from an overcrowding of 70 percent (we have 65,000 inmates, instead of the 45,000 that our facilities can accommodate); there is nothing on the prison police, nothing on the magistrates or on the administrative staff, which make justice go on. Of course, you then blocked the prescription, so the proceedings will be for life and you don't care to make them faster. The League I think has fallen into the trap of the 5 Stars and I'll tell you why. We have grown tired of this exchange of charities between the two majority parties: I give my citizenship income to you, you give 100 to me. I give self-defense to you, you give 416-b to me, everything always to the detriment of the Italians, who are now opening their eyes to this opium policy (when the effects of the announcements will end, in fact, the disasters you are causing will remain). I can understand then that this legislation has been sponsored and promoted by representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars, that the relationship with citizens have a telematic idea, they campaign on social media and establish their leaders with a click. I wonder, instead, how such a measure can be supported by the friends of the League, who instead have, like us, different traditions and cultures, which provide for a direct relationship with the citizens and daily direct contact. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It will be you, friends of the League, who will pay the highest price. Your captain is the one who travels around this country every day doing very crowded meetings and, after the meetings, subjecting himself to the practice of selfies. It's tens and hundreds of selfies. It will suffice that one of these is made with a mobster whose origin he does not know and may be subject to 416-b! Be careful, friends of the League. This is the risk that you run by falling into the devious trap that the Movimento 5 Stars tends to you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We told you. You can't say you didn't know: we told you and told you to open your eyes. There's still time. Enter at least the element of consciousness: there must be awareness that the contact is entertained with a member of a mafia thigh, while now a contact is sufficient without the passive person having awareness. I told you what might happen to your captain. I do not know how many Andreotti cases there will be, but I know that Andreotti has been blocked, for an alleged kiss and after years of judgment, the rise to the Presidency of the Republic. Someone else will be able to see the prison doors open. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u58	Mr President, we are talking about a particularly hateful crime for those who care about the real reasons for democracy, those for which the vote must be free, as well as personal. We are talking about a crime that, to hear so many who have preceded me, should not be more practice consumed, also because I just heard an endless list of measures and measures that should have, not removed, but just annihilated and destroyed in root any Mafia partnership. (at 19.04 p.m.) (Following Morra). However, even this morning there have been operations aimed at unraveling clans and mafia associations. True, John Falcone has taught us that the Mafia, being a human phenomenon, can and must be defeated, but so far all those who have listed measures and measures defined as very effective have done nothing but collect a presence of the mafias within our country - and not only - particularly hateful, or perhaps particularly accept because when there was to accept the votes the mafias became nice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Someone has just reasoned on 41- bis of the penitentiary system, remembering that he was rapporteur for a measure that tightens up this penalty, but I remember that 41- bis was the subject of the so-called negotiation, on which we will still have to discover a lot. I do not like the idea that the country and the democratic state have been able to start negotiations with criminals and criminals: many of the servants of the state have known the blood and there are still victims of mafia who mourn their loved ones. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Certainly behavior evolves, just as social practices evolve. Everything was born as a result of the umpteenth emergency that the Mafia forced us to live in the early 1990s. It was remembered the genesis of this crime, of this criminal case; it was remembered the measure signed Scotti-Martelli, which identified in the political-mafia electoral exchange something that had to be pursued, but previously how many majorities were built with those votes? So let's ask ourselves whether those practices that have been consolidated over time have not, approved the law, simply searched for pettyr, more hypocritical ways, aimed at mascarying, to continue the exchange. The exchange is in fact useful and unfortunately the usefulness is found on both fronts. As a non-jurist I learn and learn that it is a multi-subjective crime, as well as a crime of opinion, and it is a crime that is obnoxious for both those who offer and those who accept. Colleagues, I remember the considerations, which seemed particularly useful to me, of Senator Grasso: to suppose and introduce a change in the norm so that there is a perpetual ban from the public offices for those who are condemned for this case, I think it is necessary, Senator Vitali. It is necessary, because we cannot in any way allow that in the face of the craps that have been proclaimed, which represent the criminal world that is synthesized by the term mafia, against crimes that have been declared and consumed, it is possible to condemn and, then, to allow similar subjects to reappear to the public thing, proposing themselves as administrators of the same. Only masochists, only those who want to harm themselves, their children and their grandchildren, allow those who have been guilty of such vile and hateful crime to come back again, perhaps in difficult territories, to govern the public thing. So, secularly and rationally, why not accept that this piece of legislation, in this clarification, meets the needs of all those who want a state actually voted to fight the mafias and not just to make lists of measures which, for many reasons, have proved ineffective? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I have already listened here to detailed and intelligent lists of what is wrong, but perhaps what is wrong is not right, precisely because there was a clear political will to arm the hands of the Mafia through interventions that would allow it to continue to "mafia." [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, by now the mafia has become an economic or financial reality that, thanks to the decriminalization of the false in the budget, has allowed displeasure, with which resources were obtained to continue to carry out nefandi crimes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] These craps have gone hand in hand with all the measures that have effectively depowered the administration of justice, because at the same time it allowed itself, for example, to accept a promise of electoral exchange not in exchange for money, but perhaps in exchange for the will to hinder and prevent proceedings that would make justice more effective. It is true, Senator Vitali, unfortunately the penitentiary system is in serious stress, but let us ask ourselves why, for example, the administration of justice has not been properly financed and with it the judicial system; let us ask ourselves why regulations have been identified, for example the praise ad personam, in favour of someone, exponent of a party of which one of the founders seems to have been recently and for the umpteenth time condemned, as has been mentioned, for association with criminals of a mafia type. Well, let's ask ourselves if all this did not respond to a design that strategically opened up not roads, but prairies to the mafias. This also means helping not to eradicate, not to annihilate the mafias. Senator Pepe, as a contracting party to a pact that allows us to vote on this measure, you have been repeatedly urged by Senator Vitali to recover from a sort of obnubilation, of continuous sedation (the politics of opium has been defined, if I recall correctly), by virtue of which you yourself with your political side would vote for a measure of which the League would be the victim in the first place. Well, I invite everyone here to accept this challenge that a part of the opposition has addressed to us. With great satisfaction I have heard comments from senators, not from the majority, that I hope they can vote for this measure, because it is in everyone's interest to tighten the penalties and, above all, the minimum penalties. We need an assessment, as Senator Grasso always said, of a more congruent definition, because the mafias no longer seek money or other usefulness that are offered momentarily: rather they seek the willingness to become an instrument of perverse and criminal action, because it is anti-democratic. It is approaching May 23 and will be a decisive anniversary for all of us Italians. Let us ask ourselves, when we vote, who really has the will to fight the mafias and who, on the other hand, still has some delays and some embarrassments. The vote on the measure awaits us in a few hours and we know where we have to go. Of course, the text could be even better, but we know that, because the rules are never perfect. It is also true that perfect and granite must be the will to counter the mafias, and perhaps someone in this House has so much to correct. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u59	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u60	Mr President, I will be very brief in replying also because the technical report was presented at the beginning, when I technically explained the article that is being modified and introduced, albeit among the general buzz: I tried to interrupt myself, but it was useless, because the buzz continued. So I'm not resuming the relationship. I personally appreciated the intervention of Senator Grasso, at least in part, which nevertheless recognizes the validity of the new formulation. What I found disconcerting, Mr President, was to hear from the political forces in this House the complaint that the increase in the penalty for the politician would be excessive. Frankly, we know very well that those who are part of the partnership work for the partnership. I do not find it correct, and indeed I find it morally unacceptable, to hear me say that the politician should not be punished more forcefully than those who are part of the partnership, because we are here to administer the public good. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We should defend the exercise of the right to vote. I therefore find it abhorrent, frankly, to hear me say in this House that politicians should not be punished more forcefully than those who try corruption. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u61	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u62	Mr President, I give up my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u63	We shall now proceed to the examination of the draft law, composed of only Article 1, in the text including the amendments made by the Chamber of Deputies, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u64	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u65	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u66	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u69	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, let us clear the field of doubt immediately: no one considers the proposal to be exaggerated today when we look at it. We simply ask you to stop and reflect on why there is a real danger, on the contrary, not to overdo it, but to restrict the scope of applicability of that rule which is working well today and which Parliament had adopted by a very large majority. When we talk about criminal law, the risk of confusion, the risk of interpretative uncertainty, the risk of restricting the scope of applicability, we cannot simply include them in the absolute category of common sense. The approximation is not excusable because, when it comes to an incriminating rule, the interpretative risk is not insignificant, especially when we talk about rules that are related to associative cases. The question, therefore, which concerns the amendment is whether to make the rule that punishes the mafia vote applicable or not, whether to make it useful or not, after we had expanded its scope by introducing the question of the usefulness as well as that of money. Then there are two questions: first, alongside the conduct, "mafia mode," which includes everything, you continued to maintain a subjective qualification, belonging, very dangerous interpretative doubt. The second question relates to the introduction of intermediaries, a category that does not include everything where the norm, as it is written today, speaks of anyone associated with conduct. There is therefore a risk of a very dangerous restriction on the applicability of the rule. Not only that: jurisprudence, when it comes to changes of this type, has considered them new forms of indictment and therefore risks the acquittal, the acquiescence of persons investigated and accused before the approval of this rule. So there is no fear of worsening, there is fear of impunity, ladies and gentlemen. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is certainly a risk of having, albeit surely unintentionally, the effect of the so-called suicide sentences. We haven't seen any suicide laws yet, but we're in the government of change. And I would like to remind all of us that the category of guilt is provided for as a criminal offence in the penal code and is reflected in imprudence, imprudence and negligence. I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u70	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u73	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I have heard Falcone and Borsellino call into question many times in this House, but, like so many times, I must say, and when there is no need for it. Let me give an example for everyone: when Senator Pepe, who I do not see, said that Falcone would say that the suspicion is the antechamber of slander. I assure you, he never even thought of it. It is the paraphrase of a phrase according to which the suspicion is the antechamber of truth, attributed to Father Ennio Pintacuda in Palermo. So let's try to bring things back as they are and not through assonances that also determine ignorance. As I have already explained in the general debate, I believe that the changes made to the House of Deputies have been better than the text that was fired at first reading by the Senate. At first reading, in fact, the promise was sanctioned to obtain votes from subjects of which the candidate was known to belong to criminal associations of the mafia. The difficulty of this subjective test is evident, from time to time entrusted to the magistrates and to the investigations. The House has been eliminated the need to prove at the head of the politician the subjective condition of the notoriety about the belonging of its interlocutor to a mafia association and, among other things, has been reintroduced - but this time as an alternative - the reference to the attempt to vote through the typical mafia modalities, thus allowing a wider range of intervention and repression and interpretation by the judges, who can alternatively choose between acting with the mafia method by the promoter or belonging to a mafia association determined, according to the judge's judgment, not necessarily on the successful sentence with final judgment but on a whole series of elements, including possibly also the measures of personal and patrimonial prevention. In this respect, the changes made to the measure are improving even if they do not yet give the possibility of an instrument that can really be applied with a more continuous case law. The construction of the crime, as originally conceived in the bill, with the referability of the promise to obtain votes only by subjects belonging to mafia associations, involved a narrowing in the practical application of the norm, above all, as I said, if it had had to come to the consequence of the definitive condemnation for the purpose of a configuration of their respective responsibilities and that this sentence was known to the contractor. It must be necessary and sufficient that the indication of the vote be perceived outside as coming from the mafia clan, perfectly existing, known in the territory and as such, as a vow of cosca, supported in itself by the intimidating force of the associative bond, the subjection and the omerty that the associative bond produces. That's the point. It is sufficient that the mobster take a walk through the center of the country with the candidate so that no other indication is needed on who is the candidate of the mob. When the crime was introduced it was added among the typical aims of the Mafia associations that of preventing and hindering the free exercise of the right to vote, the heart of representative democracy. The interest of criminal organisations in influencing administrative and political electoral consultations is evident, but not for an immediate profit from money - what we could call the sale of votes, which also exists, because there are so many cases in which it has been established - as for the possibility of entering into contracts, purchases, supplies, concessions, public works, up to the influence, through legislative proposals or ad hoc amendments, of Parliament's legislative function. These are data of chronicle, not exaggerations or easy alarmism and I invite Senator Vitali to read the motivation of the sentence of the court of Assize of Palermo on the negotiation: perhaps his certainties would not be so granite as he tried to prove. To permanently break this link between politics and crime, or at least to make it even more risky, is undoubtedly our indispensable duty, an important step towards a more effective contrast to all types of mafia. However, it is clear that it cannot and must not be the only one. Other measures under discussion, colleagues in the majority, go in the opposite direction. There is little point in sending out rigorous messages with one hand, if, with the other, the threshold for direct assignments of works without competition is raised to a great extent, if the criterion of the lowest price for public contracts and works of millions of euros returns, if the possibility of subcontracting freely up to 50% of the orders, if the guidelines of the Anti-corruption Authority are deleted. You are also doing the fight against the Mafia - a theme that should unite us all to guarantee our country legality, development and growth - yet another electoral spot. Seeing the fight against the Mafia used as an excuse by the Minister of the Interior to escape the celebrations of the anniversary of liberation, for example, is a way to degrade a commitment that must be constant, daily, serious. It is not enough to inaugurate in favor of cameras assets confiscated many years ago; it is not enough post and tweet to every arrest, perhaps to operations in progress, compromising also the outcome, in order to fulfil the country's driving obligations. I have heard that the arrests of the fugitives today are brought as the pride of all governments: let us not forget, however, that there have been magistrates and police forces who have lent their work to achieve this result that today is claimed even by governments. The contrast to the Mafia is much more than that. The country deserves much more than you are doing, on this as on all the other fronts of your political action. As you have sensed, the promises are already showing the rope: the credit of trust is running out; the weapons of distraction that you have skilfully used until a few weeks ago do not work anymore, the squares of this endless campaign tell you, the polls tell you, the voters will soon tell you in the ballot box. In conclusion, we expect further measures in the Commission and in this House to make the fight against the mafias more effective, the fight against the criminal economy more incisive and the processes faster. Having said that, giving you further proof of what we are interested in is the merit of the measures and not the political part that supports them, we believe that the new case of Article 416-b, especially after the changes made by the House of Deputies, is better than the current one, although, as I have tried to demonstrate, it does not solve the problems. For this announcement that the Free and Equal members of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u76	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in favour of this draft law, despite the fact that the wording has still remained questionable. You will recall, ladies and gentlemen, that during the first reading examination, I, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, emphasized, together with other colleagues, that it was wrong to exclude the mob method from the norm. Nevertheless, the majority also wanted to proceed, without realizing it then - but they realized it then, fortunately, in the Chamber of Deputies - that excluding mob mode meant excluding from the audience of potential culprits all those who, not belonging to the mob association - or rather: all those who were not tried belonged to the mob association - used, in any case, within the framework of this slanderous pact, mob mode. This serious mistake, which would probably have had serious consequences for the ongoing processes, has fortunately been corrected in the House of Deputies, which introduced what we had asked not to exclude, with the result that we are here, at the third reading, precisely to ratify the correction, which fortunately the House of Deputies has operated. Therefore, from this point of view there is no doubt that the intervention of the House of Deputies has been improved. It remains to be asked - my question is a doubt and not a certainty - whether it has been intelligent to exclude, as some of the colleagues of the Forza Italia Group who have spoken in general discussion have also pointed out, the reference to the necessity that, however, those who conclude this evil pact are aware of the fact that they are concluding it with the exponent of a clan or a mob association, because otherwise we would no longer be in the context of political-mafia electoral exchange, but in the context of the simple violation of a rule of the electoral law, which nevertheless punishes the vote of exchange, even when it is not done under an agreement with the mafia. You see, that's the point, as some of my previous colleagues have pointed out: today the mob is not trading votes in exchange for money or other benefits. The mafia does not need this, but guarantees the election of a politician if that politician becomes functional and performer of a mafia design, whether it is to control contracts or the assignment of public housing or client recruitment within the public administration within which the politician is destined to operate. This is the true pact that the politician concludes with the Mafia to secure the election, so it must be clearly known to the guilty party the membership of the Mafia association of the person with whom he signs this agreement or it must be known that the intermediary acts in the name and on behalf of the Mafia association. Having eliminated this inscription does not go in the direction of punishing these phenomena more effectively, but in the direction of leaving a gap, however, an interpretative doubt that we can hope the jurisprudence fills adequately, but on which certainly there can be no certainty. With these limitations, however, we believe that the bill deserves our vote in favour; we expressed it at first reading and we reiterate today that we still see an improvement on a fundamental element that was the maintenance of the procedure referred to in the third paragraph of article 416-a of the penal code, that is - in simpler terms - the reference to the mob method. We are also convinced of the increase in punishment, because it is a question of protecting our democracy from the pollution of the mafia. There can be no democracy until the mob can influence the election of the people's representatives. No severity is superfluous when it comes to combating phenomena such as these, so the increase in punishment will well come, we agree very much, and also the perpetual ban from public offices. The Brothers of Italy Group is convinced that those who are guilty of crimes like these must never set foot in a public institution again, so on this point we absolutely agree. These are certainly reasons which are also prevalent in the technical reservations which I outlined earlier, and for these reasons we will also vote in favour of them. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u79	(19.39) MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I think that in order to combat the mafias we need a true unity of all political forces, we need to give a signal that all institutions are fighting organised crime. This should be taken for granted: all parties, apart from their differences, must feel part of a state and institutions engaged in the fight against the mafia. Rising up to the sole defenders of legality does not help to fight the mafia; it does not help to use anti-mafia to fuel the political clash. After the debate that I have heard, I want to say that in my opinion no one here should or can give anti-mafia lessons to anyone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I don't think we can take anti-mafia lessons. Even Senator Grasso could be a good witness to the fact that, according to a consideration made by all the anti-mafia organizations, during the last parliamentary term a lot has been done: many have said that there has never been a legislature in which so many laws have been passed, they have put in place many tools to counter the mafia. I am thinking of the reform of the code, the re-introduction of fake money into the budget and the crime of self-laundering, the constitution of the National Anti-Corruption Authority (NAAC) and the powers that we have given it. It has been done a lot, so we lessons do not accept it from anyone, especially from those who make imaginative reconstructions regarding the attitude that we have also held on events for us painful. We voted in favour of the arrest of Genovese - which was mentioned earlier - and if he is supporting politicians on other fronts today, it is certainly not the responsibility of the PD. At the beginning of the last parliamentary term, the reform process on anti-mafia began with the reform of 416-b: that reform was approved after a great mobilization promoted by many anti-mafia associations, who asked the MPs, already in the process of electoral campaign, to commit themselves to a necessary and important reform, the truly historical one, which changed the picture compared to the crime of voting of exchange, which was then considered only the pursuit of votes in exchange for money: it was the only crime expected and in fact did not produce any effect. That crime produced only three convictions in the many years in which the rule was in force. It was therefore necessary to punish the vote of exchange, what was practiced most often: votes in exchange for favors, in exchange for usefulness. So there was a rule that attacked many cases of exchange voting, from North to South, where in exchange for votes it was agreed to guarantee utility, position annuities to the mafias or even to delegate to the mafias the choices on contracts. That rule, as the anti-mafia prosecutor has said several times, has worked and works: it has allowed many convictions and has allowed to counter the vote of exchange. It is a rule that severely punishes those who receive the votes (the sentence between six and twelve years I do not think is light); a clear, balanced and considered positive and applied by the judiciary and that fulfilled the vast associative world. An effective rule that no one had asked to change, but that you wanted at all costs to change to make propaganda, to name you a battle that instead was a battle of many. Unfortunately, this propaganda anxiety, this obsession to want to change everything, considering you the only depositaries of the principle of legality (then will explain to us the 5 Stars, regarding the decree unblocks yards, where we will find their commitment to transparency). [[Applause from the PD Group]] In short, the desire to show you how the only honest people have produced a worse text, which puts the whole norm at risk. You know that, because if we are here it is because you also realized that writing - as Giarrusso wrote in the first text - that in order to configure the crime there had to be the promise of electoral support by subjects whose membership of criminal associations of the mafia is known to those who contract it meant restricting the field, frustrating the norm and creating interpretative uncertainty. In the Chamber, also with our contribution, the text has changed and it has been added that the political-mafia exchange manifests itself if it is realized through mafia modalities. Better, but it remains a rule to be interpreted: it is not clear. That is the first reason why we will vote against the measure. The other main reason is that the amendment of a rule already applied, without anyone raising questions of constitutionality, risks creating the conditions for an appeal. Predicting the same sanctions for a mob leader and for those who accept votes from the mob is likely to appear disproportionate. Arriving at higher penalties than those provided for bosses if the candidate is elected risks defining an abnormal penalty (from twelve to eighteen years) and thus creating profiles of constitutional illegitimacy. In short, it is not because we do not want to punish and oppose the exchange vote that we will vote against the measure. The reason for our vote, on the contrary, lies in the belief that you are worsening a useful and effective measure that works and that the prosecutors and all those in the associations who deal with anti-mafia ask us not to cancel. You assume full responsibility for a choice that risks weakening the contrast to the vote of exchange compared to what is now and to give cards and arguments to those who defend corrupt mafias and politicians in the classrooms of justice. You take this responsibility, we won't take it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u82	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, in these hours I have witnessed a race in which every political force has claimed to have done something more than the other. I believe that the Senate, which is a fundamental body because it represents the people, deserves much more. While I was preparing for the explanation of vote on the draft law under consideration, beyond the text (whose improvement was duly clarified by the previous speaker), I could only stop for a moment and ask myself a simple question: why? Why should we here, today, once again reaffirm our non-controversial, but firm and unconditional condemnation of the mob phenomenon? Why, after decades of fighting the Mafia, is it still necessary to strengthen the regulatory foundations for the suppression of the Mafia phenomenon? Allow me, colleagues. Ever since I was a very young student I have felt and watched intrigued and even frightened important and blazonous politicians of the past who, unanimously, distanced themselves from the mobsters and their methods. I say more: at the time I was frightened, because I didn't know the phenomenon thoroughly, I didn't know what it could lead to and what it could cause. Growing up, studying and reading, well before the university course, it was understood how this cancer of society had led to the death of men, in order not to yield to flattery and threats and to maintain respect for the legality and life of every single person who, many times blamelessly, came into contact with the mafia and suffered the harmful and tragic consequences. Heroes - I think of the many times mentioned Falcone and Borsellino and also of Judge Livatino, well remembered during the previous passage to the Senate by Senator Pillon - who, like many others, paid for their strictness and put the respect of their people before their lives. That's why. We must remember all these thousands of victims of the underworld, because memory must strengthen the motivations of the struggle, so that politics is really the maximum expression of commitment to the common good, without whether or not. If and but that, if linked to crime, they can only be condemned and fought without energy saving. Here, then, metaphorically, comes to light the answer to the question that I had asked myself initially. It is moral and ethical duty, even before legal and political, to put in place any useful and necessary action in order to avoid any hypothesis of mafia infiltration within political life. And the phenomenon is all the more serious today if one thinks that there are no geographical or ideological limits to the criminal and shameful action of those who act for mere interests of gain, speculation and exploitation of public administration and the common good. In the light of our mandate, which is not only political, and in view of the fact that it is necessary to remove the infiltration of illicit interests from political life, the entire Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote firmly and decisively in favour of this measure. We do this because it is right and because, beyond all rhetoric (which, unfortunately, in these classrooms feels a little too often), we owe it to the victims, who today must revive in the heart of each of us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u85	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I must draw everyone's attention to the fact that we have been debating for hours and I have heard the President of the anti-Mafia Commission - who, precisely because of his function, should have the duty of truth - remember and speak of the concept of usefulness as if it were an amendment to this rule. The rules have already been written since 2014 and there is no novelty, except the increase in the penalty and the indeterminateness of membership. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] On this, dear President, just to remind everyone, I would like to point out that the Court of Cassation in 2016 rightly said that there had been no abolition of crimes after the amendment of 2014, but that, both before and after the amendment, for the purpose of the configuration of the crime, the promise of acquisition of electoral consent was necessary through the use of the typical mafia methods of oppression and intimidation. This was the reason why in 2017 we changed that rule together, introducing not only the ways in which belongings to the Mafia association carry out their activities, but also the other utility in addition to money. I must not justify the past, however: I had the honour to be part of the Berlusconi Government, the only one in this country that, to be honest, made the only anti-mafia rules that have not been modified. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] They have never had a change. Dear Senator Giarrusso, the stabilisation of article 41- bis, made with the decree-law security, is due to the Senate, with all the consequent norms in relation to the benefits for women victims of sexual violence and the subtraction of other benefits to the Mafia defendants. President Grasso pretends to forget that we also took into account some indications from the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , which at that time correctly said that there had been effective anti-mafia legislation by that Government. Senator Grasso, do you want to tell me what the rules were later? Senator Mirabelli is right in saying that outline rules have been made, but the others have no longer been touched. You are discussing something that is all about anti-mafia legislation, which you know where it is born. Senator Giarrusso, who is Sicilian, knows very well what my relationship with that land was, when there was John Falcone (whose logic in 1992 were applied). When were they made in 1992? No, with the Berlusconi governments: this is the reality, which cannot be mystified. Why can't we vote on this rule, then? It is a misunderstanding, Minister. I've been a magistrate for forty years and my question is, to you who asked the lawyer: what does "belonging" mean? President Grasso tried to justify this wording, saying that it could even be a preventive measure to determine membership, but you, who did the lawyer and did the Minister of Justice, give me an interpretation? "Appartenenti" is it because he said a sentence? Why do you have a diploma, certificate or membership card? Or why was there anyone who claimed that Guy belonged? The second part concerning the use of the method referred to in the third paragraph of Article 416-a was my amendment. Senator Giarrusso, you opposed this at first reading and Mr Balboni reminded us of it. Today, which was introduced, you watered it down by joining it to membership. In the fight against the Mafia, the penalties cannot be lifted beyond certain limits because, when the penalty becomes inconsistent with the criminal system, it determines the rice of the Mafia. These are rules that will be cut by successive reforms or by the Constitutional Court. Do you realize the absurdity? Who fights the mob? Who makes the rules that have a stable validity or who, on the other hand, changes the criminal system every two years? If a member of the mob association or, even, a leader who awaits the attack has a lower penalty, two levels are created. Do you think that a member of an association that commits crimes - I mean murders, as well as financial crimes - must have a higher penalty? So the penal system is shattered today. All we do is follow the logic of shouting out those who have done the highest penalty. Senator Pepe, I claim to have made those rules with the League because they made those rules with us when Maroni was Minister. Instead, what do you have today? What do you say? Is there a better balance in the criminal system with these rules than you have for years? There's no balance when I'm told you have to lift your pains. When in criminal law has lifting penalties led to a greater fight against a criminal phenomenon? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The determination of responsibilities and the imposition of the sentence as soon as possible are instruments in the fight against crime, which you do not want to do. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Fighting crime means not wasting time and identifying the current models that do not determine the speed of criminal investigation. Instead of wasting time with the increase in penalties to have a rule to wave in the election campaign, let us realize the needs we would have to have a criminal system consistent with the principles of the Constitution. We need a criminal procedural system that allows us to say that to those who have committed a crime and are responsible, we find that responsibility in a short time and go to jail. That is the criminal responsibility. The responsibility of the politician, on the other hand, is different and I must say thanks to President Berlusconi for introducing in 1994 the principle of ethic of responsibility into Italian politics, which none of you has. The ethics of responsibility means having the courage to promise in the election campaign and at the end of the mandate recognize and specify the reasons why some things are done and others are not. This is the ethic of responsibility, that is, having the responsibility before the public to recognize their shortcomings. As regards the fight against the Mafia, not only can we not recognize deficiencies, but we have the joy of being able to say that thanks to our legislation, which has not been modified by anyone, we continue to fight the Mafia with the most just standards of this world. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u88	GIARRUSSO (M5S). Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, once again in this House we have seen a debate in many surreal respects, a debate that is not merely propaganda but lies. The first is that in the authoritative hearings judges have condemned the rule, they have defined it even more restrictive in the punishment of the conducts. False, destitute of all foundation. It was even ridiculous when someone in this House had the courage to point out, without perhaps realizing it, that perhaps for those who are elected by the votes of the Mafia, it is necessary to determine whether those votes are decisive or not; as if it were a question of a small amount of the Mafia votes. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] Because one takes the vows of the mobsters and if the quantity is moderate, it is not good, because the mobster goes to tell him that, having provided few, does not support him in the demands. We had to hear things from the other world tonight. We had to listen to lies, like the one that we simply increased the penalty; no, we reconnected the penalty, as it was in 1992, to the first paragraph of 416- bis, because this had a fundamental meaning. It is not an increase in the penalty, but a systematic and ontological link between two norms, wanted by John Falcone, because it was clear that the strength of the Mafia association was outside it. So said Giovanni Falcone and so it was clear. And where is this "otherwhere" of the mob association? It is also in these classrooms, in the elective classrooms where the subjects voted by the Mafia associations have gone, the fifth columns that we intend to hit and hit hard with this rule. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] Someone asked what was there since 1992 at Movimento 5 Stars. Well, we'll remind you of what happened. As Senator Morra has already said, there was negotiation, then there was 1993 with the massacres and there were terrible years, in which a President of the Council, founder and leader of your party said that Mangano was a hero. This has been there since 1992 at Movimento 5 Stars in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] They mock these norms and forget that with the Mafia Mangano, sentenced to life imprisonment and called hero by Berlusconi and comrades, the latter went to lunch and dinner and kept him at home, in Arcore. And the 5 Star Movimento doesn't say it; you know who said it? Marcello Of Utri in his trial, in which he was condemned for mafia, for external competition; this was also there in 1992. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group.]] Next week we will go to remember John Falcone and how many Pharisees will go in the streets and squares of the country saying they were friends of John Falcone when they were not alive because they were enemies and mortal opponents, but above all to remember what his masterpiece was, the maxiprocess. Then let us remember what the maxi-process was, since soon many Pharisees in this House will be going to remember it in Palermo, where they should be ashamed to go. [[Live comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Laus (PD). First and last names. President Senator Giarrusso, please remain in the vehemence of the intervention and do not go any further. GIARRUSSO (M5S). The maxi-trial is that trial in which 480 defendants had three degrees of judgment until the cassation in seven years. You know what's been going on since 1992 at Movimento 5 Stars? That 480 defendants can't convict them even in 50 years, with your rules. [[Senator Floris' comments.]] Because you dismantled the rules that led to the maxi-process. MALAN (FI-BP). Think about Corleone. GIARRUSSO (M5S). So you want to know what this rule is? This was said by one of our people who has already intervened: it is the attempt of the citizens of this country to fight the Mafia, but to do it for real and not as it has been done in recent years, that is, facade struggle when the trials were sabotaged. In our country, the mafias have not been defeated and we owe this to the twenty years of your regime. Then the first thing you have to do when you go to the fight, when you go to war with the mafia, is to avoid being hit behind you, as were Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, who were shot behind you! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). In fact, you have them behind you. GIARRUSSO (M5S). This rule is only the beginning, to prevent the institutions from going to those who then hit the backs of those who spend themselves to fight the mob. Those who say that it is excessive to strike with a high penalty a politician who has been elected by the votes of the mobsters, forget that among the elements of the case of the mob association there is the control of the public administrations. The politician who is elected with the votes of the Mafia achieves the aims of the association, and for this reason we foresee a specific and important aggression that we defend and proudly claim. Inside the institutions must be the women and men sent by the decent citizens of this country, not the ones sent by the worst criminal associations this country has ever seen. Then the Movimento 5 Stars and this majority with this rule had to remedy a very serious fact happened in the last legislature: this discipline was not born yesterday, but from six years of battles started here, in this Parliament, in 2013 and ended in the last legislature with an infamous norm - we must say - because this was defined by the Cassation. Norma more favorable to the villain; it is not said by the Movimento 5 Stars, but it is written by the Cassazione, and this sweeps away your lies. We had to remedy this, that is to say, the fact that you had lowered the sentence by 42 percent; that you had predicted an element never required before by 416-b, i.e. the proof of the Mafia method for the collection of votes: a diabolical probatio said the Cassazione, not the Movimento 5 Stars. You have made it impossible to apply a standard that is already difficult to apply. With this rule we remedy one of the most serious disasters that the PD and the majority that preceded us, that of Verdini and Renzi, in the last legislature put in place [[Lively comments from the PD Group]] , which was 416-ter Renzi and Verdini. MIRABELLI (PD). You're the only one who thinks so! GIARRUSSO (M5S). Let's remember that! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u89	Conclude, Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u90	GIARRUSSO (M5S). I'll finish by saying... [[Live comments from Senators Bellanova and Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u91	Colleagues, let us conclude Senator Giarrusso, who has practically finished the time at his disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u92	Please, Senator Giarrusso. GIARRUSSO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I conclude by saying that this is only a starting point for our efforts to combat the mafias in our country, in the name of those who have given their lives to fight them. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u94	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u95	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I will not vote and I will not vote because at this point it is the only way I can speak for a minute and to address Mr Giarrusso, whose speech I have heard. Senator Giarrusso described Pharisees as some senators who sit in this Chamber and did so... VOICE BY THE M5S GROUP. It's too little! ZANDA (PD). I'm also talking to you that you said it was too little. I'm telling you, too. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Sorry, let me finish. I'll be very brief. Throwing generic accusations or insults without saying the names of the people to whom these accusations are directed is a mafia method. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP, FdI, Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senators Casini and Errani. Protests from the M5S Group.]] This is a mafia method and these things are not allowed in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u96	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u99	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would just like to ask a minimum of attention to an issue which concerns not only the Abruzzo Region but an important part of Central Italy, namely the dreaded closure of the Gran Sasso tunnel. [[Brusio]] President, there is a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u100	You are right, Senator Pagano, I would ask colleagues who want to leave the House to do so in silence if possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u101	PAGE (FI-BP). When it's time to talk about real problems, which really affect people, not about electoral ads like the one that has just been voted, when we talk about people's skin, this is the show that Italians (which I hope are watching) are in front of them; this is the show that is being proposed to them. Here's the news that comes out. The truth is that if the 19th of this month will be closed the tunnel of the Gran Sasso, a part of the Abruzzo Region will be split in half and many citizens, from L'Aquila to the coast and from the coast inland, will no longer have the opportunity to be connected. It is a public work of fundamental importance for mobility, in particular of the Abruzzo Region, but also of the southernmost part of the Marche Region and this demonstration of the... [[Brusio]] The general disinterest I perceive gives me the measure of the quality of this House, which is very low. It's just bad. That's my judgment. [[Comments of Senator Croatti]] There's little to protest, you understand? What's your name? President. - Senator Pagano, please speak to the Presidency or else I will have to take the floor. PAGE (FI-BP). So, it's only right that those who follow us know the names of those who offend because I don't do these things and I demand that they don't do them either. We have been voted by the Italian people and we must represent them well. There is a serious problem that affects hundreds of thousands of people, of Italians who are now afraid of suffering enormous damage from the closure of this tunnel. The Ministry of Infrastructure only in these hours, is news of a few minutes ago, is finally discussing with the concessionary society of the Autostrada dei Parchi that unfortunately, being involved in an investigation near the attorney of Teramo, has feared the closure of that tunnel if they are not taken immediately measures from the Ministry for the waterproofing of the tunnel. This is to prevent the pollution of the slopes, the pollution of drinking water that, from the aqueduct of Gran Sasso, arrives to the coast, damaging the health of the citizens. It is therefore necessary and absolutely necessary for this Parliament too to address the problem and for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to be able to address the situation immediately, including through the appointment of a Commissioner. There is absolutely no need for that tunnel to be closed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u104	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor to call for a very rapid reply to the question that we have tabled today to clarify the removal of that banner, which was unwelcome to Mr Salvini, who was taken away by the fire department in Brembate. We believe that an answer on this issue is urgent because, unfortunately, episodes of this nature - totally unacceptable - of prevarication against citizens against those who express dissent towards the constituted power are becoming too frequent. I just remember that the Constitution, in Article 21, reads as follows: Everyone has the right to freely express their thoughts by word, writing and any other means of dissemination. Printing may not be subject to permission or censorship. We would not like to see, for example, provisions given only vocally - as in the case of the Diciotti ship - then fall on subordinates who had no personal responsibility or that, perhaps, some officials are too polite to ingratiate the head of the shift, which, in this case, incidentally, seems to like, in the light of what happened, for example, at Settimo Torinese, where, during a meeting, he incited: What the fuck, make them stop! PIANASSO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Were you in Settimo Torinese? [[Comments of Senator Marino]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u105	Excuse me, Senator, you can't speak directly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u106	TARICCO (PD). The videos are all over the world. I was saying, we would not want officials who are too rude to take on behaviour contrary to the Constitution and I would say to the very idea of democracy, creating problems. I would merely point out that here we are dealing with an issue which concerns the Constitution as well as democracy, but also the use of public resources. We also asked in the question to know who paid for those interventions because I believe there are all the extremes of a risk of erarial damage. We ask to respond urgently because we believe that all doubts - and at this moment objectively there are so many - must be eliminated that too many episodes have brought about a closure against all those who dare to contest the head of the shift. In conclusion, I would just like to remind you, incidentally, that we are all appointed protempore, including the Minister for the Interior. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u109	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I rise to inform the House of what is happening in Umbria in the middle of the election campaign. We all know that last May 7th the PD, not knowing how to justify a denial to the resignation of the President of the Region, preferred to postpone for the umpteenth time; but, besides remaining attached to the armchair, they chose to heavily condition the electoral campaign in two municipalities of Umbria: Panicale and Piegaro. On 9 May last, in fact, the Umbria Region intended to sign a protocol of understanding with Enel, Municipality of Panicale and Municipality of Piegaro, unacceptable from three points of view: obviously from the point of view of the opportunity and I do not think it is necessary to specify why; from the point of view of the substance, because it is an absolutely empty protocol, which speculates on the electoral campaign and on the words, but does not solve the problems that afflict the territory; but, above all, on the level of the form, understood as respect for the law. There are three obvious violations. The first concerns Article 38 of the single text of the local authorities because, after the elections have been held, the municipalities can only approve urgent and indisputable acts. Well, this Memorandum of Understanding is two years late: it had to arrive by June 30, 2017. There is only an urgent electoral deadline. Moreover, Article 42 of the single text of the local authorities is also violated, because the acts of programme are the responsibility of the municipal councils, whereas that act of programme for the municipal councils did not pass by accident either. Finally, the last violation: of the junta resolutions, which should have been approved, several days after the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding, alas, there is no trace and have been refused to the members of the opposition. No one has seen the junta deliberations on the basis of which the mayors of the Republic have signed a protocol. That is why we have informed the prefect, given his competence, and have submitted a written question to the Minister of the Interior, to whom I ask to be able to give us an answer by 26 May, so that the citizens have made it clear whether the mayors have signed in full office, whether or not they comply with the law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u112	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just adopted an important anti-mafia measure and the subject I am about to discuss is less serious, but I assure you that it is of interest to tens of thousands of people and concerns compliance with the rules of law and sports law and the criterion of reasonableness and balance to which all the decisions of any decision-making body must be informed. Yesterday it happened that the national federal court of the Italian Football Federation (FIGC) has ruled the relegation of Palermo to the last place of the classification of series B. Soon after, the board of directors of the League B series met, which basically sanctioned the immediate enforceability of the judgment and for the effect there was the refishing of Perugia for what concerns the playoffs, that is to say to identify the team that will be promoted in Serie A, making in fact a judgment of first instance like a final judgment, Sancendo at the same time the annulment of the playout, which instead had to decree the last team that had to relegate in Serie C, playout that had to compete between the fourth and fifth last team of the classification of Serie B and this has in fact sanctioned the retrocession of the Foggia football in Serie C. In practice, the board of directors of the League B series, without having any power - power that instead is at the head of the FIGC, according to the internal organizational norms of the same FIGC (NOIF) - has changed the rules of the game in progress. Moreover, some members of the Governing Council appear in a clear conflict of interest, as the incredible decision taken yesterday directly benefits two teams whose representatives voted on this resolution. Therefore, given the lack of power of the Board of Directors of the League B series, we hope and ask the president of the FIGC, the president of the CONI and the undersecretary Giorgetti to take action, each for its own competences, to get to cancel the effects of the resolution that I have just mentioned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-05-14-LEG18-Senato-sed-112.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 15 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.26 a.m.
