ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1018. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and the general debate took place. I call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u5	Mr President, I will be brief as many of the speakers of the majority have already partly answered the questions raised in the course of the opposition's speeches. First of all, I would like to clarify why these two measures are together: on the one hand, because they deal with both employment integration and, on the other hand, because they deal with aid and exiting flexibility. They are then together because, of course, they also concern the generational turnover, because they are part of the government program and because they both come from the Ministry of Labour. It has been said that the centres for employment in Italy are not enough. Well, employment centres currently have 8,000 employees and certainly the choice not to invest in such centres and active labour policies has not been supported by the 5 Star Movement or the League but by previous governments, which should have invested in active labour policies and employment centres, as did other European countries that have implemented structural investment reforms in these sectors. If we want to give an example, let us talk about Germany with its 110,000 employees who are involved in helping to get into work. We are now laying the foundations and building those pillars that will help active labour policies. Sooner or later someone had to do it in Italy: our Government, the Government of change, is doing it. It has been said that the opinion of the privacy guarantor has been ignored; this opinion has not been ignored, so much so that several government amendments have been tabled that take into account the advice given by the guarantor. As regards municipalities, I would like to point out that the National Fund for the fight against poverty and social exclusion has been increased with a budget for 2019 of €347 million, for 2020 of €587 million and for 2021 of €615 million. There has been talk of electoral bills; I am sorry for the senator who spoke about them but both the Movimento 5 Stars and the League since the beginning of this legislature - but also during the previous legislature - had and have brought forward topics such as citizenship income and the overcoming of the Fornero reform with constancy and consistency. It is clear that the first measures we take are precisely those that we have carried out first in our electoral campaigns and in our path. There has been talk of a hybrid measure, because the measure speaks of poverty, but also of reintegration into the working environment. However, I would like to mention briefly the European pillar of social rights which, whose fourteenth key principle states that anyone who does not have sufficient resources is entitled to an adequate income and that for those who can work the minimum income should be combined with incentives for reintegration into the labour market. This measure is therefore perfectly in line with the above-mentioned European pillar. There has been talk of the absence of the third sector. This seems to me rather strange, because the third sector is present in a large part of the measure, from taking responsibility through the employment agencies (which often belong to the third sector), to the training bodies that will deal with the training of the beneficiaries (even those are often accredited bodies of the third sector), to everything that concerns the aid and take charge also for social inclusion. I do not think that children are invisible on this scale, which is made so that a family with two adults and four children will receive an income of EUR 1.330; I do not think that it is low income support, but decent and I think that children are absolutely covered. Disability has also been mentioned. In the measure there is a very special attention to the disabled, but not only: for the first time there is attention to those who care for the disabled, who are not subject to cross-compliance, and this is a very important new element. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u6	I call the rapporteur, Senator Nisini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u7	Mr President, I listened very carefully to yesterday's speeches and I would like to respond to some of the comments made by my colleagues in the opposition, making clear some aspects that may not yet be clear, starting from the strong criticism made by the minority rapporteur to Amendment 2.512 on the certification of the movable and immovable property of non-European citizens. The request for this documentation is not a farce and I say it because I know the matter well. I am city councilman for housing policies in the municipality of Arezzo and I can proudly say that Arezzo in 2015 was the first municipality in Italy where this rule was applied to the ban on the allocation of housing for public housing. I can assure you that the corresponding rankings have changed substantially: Italians have gone from 45 to 76 percent. It is not discrimination, but pure equity towards the Italians. I tell you more: in the municipality of Arezzo we govern in coalition and this rule has been accepted more than positively by the city council member of Forza Italia to social policies, which has applied the same criterion to the ban for the rent contribution. Therefore, we govern at national level in complete coherence with local policies and this amendment is proof of this; on the contrary, those who have raised this criticism at local level work in one way and vote against this amendment at national level because they feel it is wrong and they dispute it hard. Moving to 100, it must be said that this is not an obligation: it is an opportunity more given to Italian citizens and it is clear that those who will want to continue to work beyond the sixty-two-year threshold will be able to do so safely and this is called freedom of choice and not obligation. The opposition colleagues have repeatedly accused us, as Mrs Catalfo has said, of the fact that the decree-law under consideration has only propagandistic aims in view of the European elections, but I would like to remind those who had not read it that income of citizenship and quota 100 are both contained in the government contract. I would also like to stress, as my colleagues did yesterday, that the League did not vote for the Fornero law and has always convincedly argued that, once in the government, it would change the pension system. But I realize that those who have voted for the Fornero law, including Forza Italia, cannot support the 100 quota, which goes in a different direction. I should therefore like to stress for the hundredth time that 100 is not an electoral ad, but a further promise that has been made. Then there is the story of the penalty: is there penalty? No, he's not. It is obvious that those who retire first will have less contributions paid and it is also obvious that they will have a different transformation coefficient; so it is equally obvious that the pension will have a different value. The penalty was in the so-called Damian law, presented in the last legislature, which in fact provided for a penalty of two percentage points for each year in advance. The three-year transitional period was also criticised. The 100th share is only the beginning of a path, because before thinking about structural reform of the whole social security system, it is essential to reduce to the maximum the scissor of inequalities created because of the so-called Fornero law. But let's go to the concrete numbers. I'll tell you this number: 67,738. Do you know what that corresponds to? The number of applications submitted to INPS yesterday afternoon. This means that in 2019 they will retire: 23,910 private employees, 25,133 civil servants, 5,250 merchants and 5,442 craftsmen. Do you know what it's like to retire people at an affordable age? It means giving them the opportunity to be grandparents, and for us in the League the concept of family has always been at the heart of our political activity. Do you know what the support of grandparents means for a family? It means for many mothers, finally, to have the chance to return to the world of work. I will conclude by replying to another comment made on the high percentage of membership at 100 by civil servants. As has already been said several times during the examination of the draft law, the average age of civil servants is fifty-five years; therefore, focusing on young people also in public administrations is indispensable and essential. In the age of digitalization, in fact, the generational replacement will contribute to the efficiency of the public administrative machine. I conclude by saying that we are not creating exodus, but we are creating the future. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u8	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u9	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, I think it is worth remembering that Forza Italia is and has always been attentive to the weakest sections of the population. The Berlusconi governments have always shown this, in fact it was precisely President Berlusconi who raised pensions to one million of the old lire; it was always President Berlusconi who created well over 1,600,000 jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He can say it: "Make it." Minister Di Maio says he has already abolished poverty, but he knows not to be true, because this measure will not produce this result. It is true that many countries have already activated active policies and reforms for years, but it is also true that they have done so like Germany, whose employment centres we have had the opportunity to visit. They did so not in one or two years: it took well over ten years for a complete reform. Countries with economic situations quite different from ours have been engaged for ten years, and you want to do all this in not a month. Of course, the Rousseau platform is magical, but you are really magicians, because I think it is impossible to be ready on April 1st to provide citizenship income. The employment centers will not be ready. President Catalfo, with whom I have had the opportunity to visit the employment centers, both in Italy and abroad, says that we must begin to restructure them: it is true, if they want to be pillars, we must start working immediately. But you have to start right there, you can't start to provide a benefit when the whole structure isn't ready. If you say that there is no time, for those who will benefit from income, to sit on the couch because it will be engaged in training, say the false: on April 1, in fact, no one will be able to take charge of the beneficiaries of the citizenship income to give them training. The CAFs won't be ready. In ten days' time, the system must start, but the agreement with the CAFs has not yet been activated so that the models can be started for ISEE purposes. Nothing is ready and this is an embarrassing situation. It is clear that the income of citizenship and quota 100 will only serve for your election campaign. Employment centres, which should be the core of the intersection between supply and demand, will not be able to perform these functions. Currently, in fact, only 4.2 percent of Italian companies rely on employment centres to look for workers and among young people - and this is an ISTAT figure - only 2.5 percent are aimed at employment centres. They are really very low levels and these data cannot be changed in a month; even assuming 4,000 new employees, plus 6,000 navigators, these may be able to activate in the centres for employment all those mechanisms that serve to cross the demand and the supply of work. We believe, therefore, that this instrument does not give answers to poverty and to the weak and, once the resources are exhausted, it will leave the bitter in the mouth of so many poor that you have deceived. Believe me, it is not only the opposition that says that they are not adequate measures to give answers to our country; we contest them, we criticize them and we do so objectively, but there are those who did so last Sunday through the ballot boxes, dear pentastellated colleagues, and they literally rejected this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u10	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Nannicini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u11	Mr President, my reply will not be a reply because yesterday's debate was not a debate: we spoke, but we did not talk; we listened, but we did not listen. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The majority have repeated their truths, without answering any of the punctual and merit questions we have tried to pose as a Democratic Party. We have heard many sociological analyses about the lost sense of the left (thank you, I have taken notes), we have heard many economic analyses so that the poverty of recent years would not be the fault of one of the most terrible economic crises in Italian history but of the PD-led governments, while the growth and the escape from that same crisis would not be due to those Governments but they came from under a cabbage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We discussed for hours of redistribution and work, of epochal turns and abolition of poverty, without ever talking for a minute about the recession in which our country is pouring back. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Three colleagues in the majority rejected the Democratic Party's rejection of Article 18. But what does that have to do with the decree we're discussing? And why did you take good care to re-introduce him into the work arrangements you did? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Two colleagues in the majority rejected the Democratic Party's introduction of the 80 euros. But why not abolish them instead of continuing to talk about them? You could use $10 billion in a little while. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The League's colleagues celebrated the abolition of Fornero. But in the decree we're discussing, it's not there. Stop saying that you did not vote for the Fornero reform in 2011 because, in case you did not notice, you are voting today in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Despite 21 billion spending over the next three years, this decree leaves the rules of that reform intact. There is only one temporary lottery that will benefit some generations of male workers with medium-high incomes, creating an absurd staircase in three years. Of course, then you say that you will abolish it later, but they are again promises, announcements: there is nothing in this decree and we will see, if and when you do, with what money and at what costs for young people and the weakest. A colleague of the majority glorified yesterday the virtues of the relocation allowance, the instrument introduced by the jobs act with which an unemployed person can receive intensive job search services. Listening to him, I had a flash: I thought I heard Pietro Ichino, who sat on these benches in the last legislature and was the inspiration of that instrument. That is why we asked you: if you like the relocation allowance so much, why do you take it away from the unemployed who have recently lost a job to give it to people in poverty who may not have worked for decades? No answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Continue to confuse the fight against poverty and the protection of unemployment. The colleague and Patriarch Master told you with a very simple phrase: it can happen that a poor person is not employable and it can happen that an unemployed person is not poor. Both need a guarantee of income and services, but different: an income close to the wage they have lost and relocation services for the unemployed; a lower income but with social activation services for the poor. That is what we started to do in the last parliamentary term, by increasing unemployment benefit and creating income for inclusion. More can and must be done, but going in that direction and not creating a hybrid instrument - yes, hybrid - that forgets the unemployed and will not help the poor. We asked you to change the rules that penalize the many "invisible" of the decree: not only the unemployed who still - goodness them - are not poor, but the people with disabilities, those without a fixed home, foreigners, children, Italians who return home after years spent abroad. We have indicated to you the parts of the decree in which you forget the "last among the last." No answer. Some colleagues in the majority said that the Democratic Party considers the poor "guilty." But when? We asked you, here, to change the most absurd parts of your decree that exude "guilty poverty." We have asked you to change the criminal sanctions, which are disproportionate; to review the excessive, bureaucratic conditionality, the obligation of socially useful working hours without training purposes. We have asked you to abandon the vision that I can give the poor an income, but then they have to work for free for me, they have to consume what I tell them and, if they fail to produce some documents, I throw them in the slum. No answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Look, I agree with the government and the majority on one thing. 2019 will be a beautiful year. I fear not for the Italians, even if I hope to be wrong, but for sure 2019 will be a beautiful year for the exponents of the Government and the majority: a year in which the fault of the things that do not go is always of the previous Governments; a year in which you can enunciate epochal turns in the decrees, without worrying if those carried out will really reach the lives of the people; a year of precarious navigators that create magically jobs and poverty that disappear from the face of the earth; a year in which you are not called to take responsibility for your own choices. Yes, yesterday you convinced me: 2019 will be a beautiful year. But it will end. I'll see you in 2020. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u12	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u13	Mr President, I would also like to thank all those who have spoken for their contributions. I would like to highlight the reasons why we are pursuing as Government the measure on citizenship income and quota 100. First of all, as far as citizenship income is concerned, we are doing this to bring us closer to European social standards: there are recommendations from 1992 that tell us to identify income support instruments especially for those people who are in absolute poverty. Our country in the last ten to twelve years, from the beginning of the crisis to today, has seen triple the poor and at the same time triple the number of people who hold over one billion euros: it is not only a social problem, but an economic one, as Keynes explained, an economist well known in the past years. To do this, it certainly takes a lot of courage. It is said that those who are on the side of the poor lose, but I would also be proud to lose consent if that meant being on the side of the last, otherwise I would ask myself what I am doing here. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have a problem that is linked to active labour policies and employment centers that do not work: we have a tenth of the employees of employment centers compared to an important country like Germany; we have a problem, precisely, linked to a set of social shock absorbers and income support tools that have been used little and badly in Italy, but somewhere you have to start. There are those who tell us that this is an electoral operation, but we cannot say such a thing; just think in particular about the 5 Star Movement, which in 2013 already had this point in its electoral program, when in Italy in 2013 nobody even knew the meaning of the expression "income of citizenship": I believe that this has nothing to do with the electoral campaign. Moreover, as the polls - even the most recent ones - on the income of citizenship testify, it still does not show that this instrument is not known by most Italian citizens. More on the substance of the measure, work must be done on the part of social services and on the part concerning employment centres. Finally, this government has invested, as no one has ever done before, in employment centres with a structural investment of one billion euros. I do not think it is a small step: it is a first step, it can be done more, but it is a very important step. Often reference is made to the speech of responsibility and importance in the Municipalities of Social Services, but I would like to remind you that in this budget law, resources have been identified for the National Fund for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion for Municipalities, which has been increased by EUR 117 million for 2020 and by EUR 145 million for 2021. As far as 2019 is concerned, €347 million will be available (the funds are allocated by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, because I also like to recognize the merit when there is), with a total availability of €587 million of funds in 2020 to reach 615 million euros in 2021. Some people wonder if the resources will be enough, but I would say that this is already an important commitment, because the Rei has not been completely disassembled and something good of the Rei was there. I'm the first to say it. [[Applause from Senators Grimani and Laus]] Something good was there, but there was not all that part - which is fundamental to us - of social reactivation also through training: this is a very important aspect we have invested in. Much more resources are invested that go towards a audience that is more than twice as much as that of the Rei. When it is said that only 20% of the beneficiaries of citizenship income will sign the pact for work and training, it must be remembered that, being aimed at households, clearly cannot reach 100% of the people because in these nuclei there are minors and, therefore, people who cannot clearly work, or who are studying. This applies to about half of the nuclei concerned. We are unable to work and retired and, therefore, the audience is very small. It's only 20 percent, but it's still a lot of people because among them we have not in education, employment or training (NEET), discouraged people who no longer seek work and do not study. The investments will strengthen the staff of the centres for employment, training of the same staff, IT equipment and tools also at logistic level. All this will allow the structures to actually welcome this 20 percent of people who will make an active job search path. It won't be just employment centers. The situation is complex and we know very well; we inherited it. I visited and have been to several employment centers. The Senate Working Commission through President Nunzia Catalfo has made a number of visits abroad to understand the situation, but we will also support private agencies for work. There is not, therefore, just the employment center. There are various actors involved. Various bodies were involved in the operation of the entire machine. There has been a collaboration with Poste, INPS and also with CAFs there is an open table in this sense. There has also been an intercourse with the Regions, although difficult. It cannot be said that this government has not listened to all the actors in the field. You can do better than that, but we're here on purpose. On the other hand, as far as the pension chapter is concerned, some people have spoken of discrimination against women because 100 will go mainly to men. In fact, if you go to see the numbers - now we go around 70,000 questions - because it was said that the measure would go mainly to the North, you notice that 40 percent of the questions come from the South. The number of applications for a quota of 100 shall be distributed fairly evenly throughout the national territory. Women are in smaller numbers because they obviously do not have the same contributory continuity as men on average and are also a lower audience as workers compared to men. In this sense there is a lower percentage which, to a large extent, will be compensated by another proposal included in the pension package of this decree, which is a woman's option (which, of course, is aimed exclusively at women). Other operations were then carried out on the pension chapter. The social bee has been extended. It is true that we did not do it, but we have extended it because, from our point of view, it is something that meets a whole series of people who are in difficulty. I am thinking, first of all, of heavy work and the blocking of life expectancy, with particular reference to early workers. There is a commitment on the part of this Government to arrive - I hope in the shortest possible time - at the audience of early workers so-called quotas 41. The 41 (early workers) quotas are those who soon began to work and, therefore, have tended to work hard and will have a lower life expectancy. As a result, they will receive the pension for less years and will have an impact on lower pension expenditure. This is also why we have intervened at least with the blocking of life expectancy in relation to contribution. I would also like to respond to the subject of disabled people, which is certainly very much felt by this Government because interventions have been made in the budget law. In the Senate, there are drafts of the caregivers law under discussion. We are also discussing after us and the funds for self-sufficiency have already been increased. But this provision is not about disability. We're gonna do a lot about disability. This is a measure addressed to the poor; but within these nuclei there will be people with disabilities, so we respond to everyone indiscriminately. Within the same proposal there are different requirements for people with disabilities, to give them extra opportunities. I am thinking of different criteria with regard to the requirements for access to citizenship income, therefore to the securities of families with a disabled person. As regards disabled people who are able to work and who want to do so, or rather - excuse me, I correct myself - for those households in which there is a disabled person, the same criteria will not apply as regards the acceptance of job offers compared to certain territorial constraints, i.e. after the third proposal on the whole of the country. An amendment has been adopted whereby in these families there is no obligation to accept proposals which come from any part of Italy or beyond the radius of 250 kilometres; if I am not mistaken, it must remain within 100 kilometres. It is not only a measure of common sense, but something that people who have no voice ask us and therefore are not lobbyists and do not have lobbyists. Finally, this government responds to those who have no voice. I hope that the debate on this measure will see the broadest participation and not disputes regardless of everything. Anyone who has known me in the Commission knows that I can also give credit to certain proposals or measures made by other governments. So I hope - I know that much of this Senate does - that the continuation of the debate will also go in this direction. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute, including Via Casalotti n. 259, in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u15	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u18	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Democratic Party, the proposal not to move to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to motivate you, because, as you can well understand from the significance of the issues we are dealing with with with with this measure, the decision has been suffered and has been made during the examination of this measure. This was very well said by Senators Nannicini and Patriarch, in the various interventions that anticipated mine: one cannot be against measures to combat poverty, one cannot be against all forms of protection of unemployment and one cannot be against prejudices to the fact that there are early retirement windows. However, we are deeply opposed to the way in which you are trying to achieve these objectives, as has already been mentioned. The 38 billion that you used to support these measures would have used them differently, because, as Senator Patriarch has well explained, there is a profound difference, first of all from a cultural point of view, between social poverty and unemployment. It is right to find a window for early retirement, but only for those who come from disadvantaged positions. The risk is otherwise to do so in an ambiguous way and to the detriment of the whole community, because every policy - even the best and for you these are the best - must be read and lived in the economic context in which it falls. With one hand you are turning your political dream into reality, the great part of your political plan, with the other you are making the country tremendously more economically fragile, so that in a few months the measures you have imagined will be difficult to sustain. And then - let me tell you - to offer work, you need to create it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And let me tell Mr Di Maio in particular, Mr President, why do you know what the meaning of the first article of our Constitution is that Italy is a Republic based on work? It is that the first duty of a government is to create work and if the government fails in its first duty, it means that it is failing in general. The data show that in your months of government the number of employees has decreased by over 70,000; this shows that you are failing and I say it in particular to Minister Di Maio because he has decided to oversee both the Ministries, the one in which you create or should create work, even if the opposite is happening, and the one that should benefit from the job created. I say this especially because yours is a cultural and total link: poverty-unemployment, poverty-employment. Our concern is strong because if it goes as it goes and therefore you will not be able to create new jobs, the plant collapses and if this happens it risks to pass in the country the very serious message that every measure that goes in the direction of bringing money and support to poverty fails. In this way we risk falling behind the choices already made by previous governments, especially with the income of inclusion; we risk making employment fail and also pulling behind the failure of every policy for poverty. We have tabled some 200 amendments in the Commission. That is certainly not a number of obstructions. We did not obstruct, we illustrated and discussed the amendments, asking the Government to interact by voting on our amendments and many amendments from the other Groups, from Forza Italia, Fratelli d'Italia and LEU. We considered these amendments useful in terms of improving a measure which we consider to be very ambiguous at political level for the reasons I have just outlined. Well, we would have come to this House with this attitude, although not even one of the Democratic Party's amendments has been accepted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Nor was an amendment by the Democratic Party accepted on a measure of 28 articles. In spite of all this we would have come to this House with the same attitude, distinguishing the vote according to merit and trying to improve the measure. However, once again, there is no style. I also say this with the aim of leaving all this to the acts of the Presidency: the line that divides respect for form and style is often very subtle. Even if this time we have been messy about the measure, we have not reported any serious irregularities in the regulatory field. However, we denounce a lack of style and when there is a serious lack of style - I am also addressing the Undersecretary Cominardi, who has just spoken in the hope that there will be a collaborative style on the part of the whole of Parliament and the whole of this House - it results in a lack of respect for parliamentary work. I say that and I hope I don't have to repeat myself. This isn't the first time we've said that. I appeal in particular to the Government and the majority forces: you cannot in closed committees approve and bring to the House amendments which are virtually identical to those proposed in the opposition's amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is not the case, it is reworded, it is responsible for redrafting the amendments on the same points of substance in the Commission, taking up the signatures of the opposition as well. This is the collaborative style that a government must guarantee. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the first style. This never happens and is unacceptable. We do not accept it, but I do not say it to do blackmail, but because we demand respect for every signature that comes on purpose on an amendment of serious merit, from here on. Therefore, for all these reasons, we ask, in accordance with Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, not to proceed to the examination of the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to explain what we are going to do if this proposal is rejected. I do this above all for two reasons: for the respect we have for the serious amending work done by the Opposition Groups - LEU, Brothers of Italy and Forza Italia - which also saw us agree in so many points and I do so because the Democratic Party has proposed amendments that have covered all the areas under discussion - I say so because there is no ambiguity - including the delicate issue of strengthening any measure on the disabled: that there are no misunderstandings and ambiguities on this aspect. Well, because of all this, because of what I have just tried to explain, if we do not pass our proposal not to go through the articles, we will simply vote in favour of the Democratic Party's amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u19	I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the proposal not to move on to the examination of the articles, made by Senator Ferrari. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendment 12.0.1, which reorders the discipline relating to the profession of social worker, as it is not relevant to the content of the decree-law in question, is not feasible. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, the Presidency declares the sub-amendments 9,850/100, 9,850/101, 9,850/102, 9,850/103, 9,850/109, 12,850/100, 12,850/101, 12,850/102, 12,850/103, 12,850/104, 12,850/105, 12,850/106, 12,850/107, 12,850/108, 12,850/109, 13,1/100, 14.0.850/130, 14.0.851/107, 25.0.4/1 and 26.0.852/100 inadmissible, since they do not affect the text of the amendment to which they refer, that is to add extra provisions on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u20	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u21	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u22	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u25	Parent (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this amendment to support the distinction between helping people and families in poverty, support for job seekers and accompaniment to those who lose it to be relocated. These are different conditions, as we have said in all sauces in the definition of the measure under consideration. This confusion does not exist in any European country, but the text in our examination is confusing, unfair and - I am not afraid to say so - dangerous: this is the basic vice that will be harmful to the country. I address the citizens and the citizens: as it was conceived, in a short time you will be forced to pay more interest deriving from public debt and small drops in cents of euro per day for every daily operation that you will carry out, from shopping to the movements on the ATM, that already at the end of the day will become a stream in full and will increase our personal daily debt. Other than helping the middle class. Without serious employment investment policies, the immediate benefits of citizenship income will be ephemeral and virtual. This amendment calls for the reinstatement of the reception and access to municipalities of all people in difficulty, because poverty is a matter of proximity and institutional networks, of third sector and of volunteering. Reinforce the social infrastructure and hire social workers, ladies and gentlemen: we did not make it through. Do not hire navigators, but social workers: what does a navigator do to Scampia or Bastoggi, two outskirts of our cities where there are families with strong social distress, whose members do not even have the eighth grade? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In those outskirts there are only social workers, maybe two, who also risk life; there are only voluntary associations (and I volunteered in those outskirts); there are social cooperatives, left completely alone with respect to social hardship. The second part of the amendment speaks of active policies. The Parliamentary Budget Office has revealed to us at the hearing that 64% of the beneficiaries of the measure will have no obligations, which means that they will not enter a path of support. With this amendment, however, we call for the serious and true implementation of structural reform and the development of labour services, to continue the work that the previous Government has begun, since the issue of Italian backwardness is that of labour services; on this we all agree. We have set up ANPAL for the first time in the history of our country. You employ 12,000 people in employment centres, in agreement with the Regions, because these are regional subjects. Strengthening labour services also means tackling the issue of job losses due to innovation, automation and technology. It has nothing to do with citizenship income. An example for all is that in the digital sector there will be more employment, according to employment forecasts: in reality, that sector expels, for automation and for the epochal change of work. We do not need citizenship income, then, but a serious and structured system of work services that begin to create a virtuous circle between those who lose it, requalifies, is reactivated and finds it. That is the point of the amendment. We are voting and the expression of the vote is an important moment. Let us therefore choose for the country something better than that contained in the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u26	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.14.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u29	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we start badly because the title of the measure is highly suggestive and misleading. We are talking here - and we are all talking about - about citizenship income, whereas, in reality, it is a residence income. We know perfectly well that the fundamental requirement is the possession not of Italian citizenship, but of residence in one of the Italian Municipalities, which means that, at the end of the accounts, 241,000 families of foreigners will receive the income of citizenship, about 87,000 of which having been residing for less than ten years. Let's call things by their names. I say this in particular to the League, which has done a battle, always saying: "First the Italians". First the Italians say it ourselves, but we also do a battle of truth, inviting us to call things by their name. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u30	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.14, tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,15, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.19, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.20, tabled by Senators Misiani and Rossomando. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.21, tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.22, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.25 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u33	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 1.25 (text 2) and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u34	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u35	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u36	Mr President, the Government is in favour of accepting the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u37	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G1.25 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 1.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u40	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, we in this amendment call for the measure referred to in paragraph 2 to be extended to members and/or family members aged 67 or over who live with a person with a serious or not self-sufficient disability. I would like to take this opportunity to make two comments on the measure: in the majority report, the President of the Commission for Senator Catalfo stressed the importance and the evocative force of Article 1. Well, I would point out the opposite: this is not a measure against poverty, this is a measure against the poor, indeed, it will create so many, but so many more than the present. This is a measure that poisons the country, a measure that will poison the wells of the country, the wells of merit, the wells of culture, the wells of duty, the wells of active citizenship and the wells of education to responsibility, the wells of competitiveness. From Article 1 you begin to steal the present from the Italians and to seize the future of the new generations. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leonardo]] RENZI (PD). Bravo! Mr Laus (PD). Article 1 makes clear and unequivocal the vision you have of our country. Article 1 and this decree-law represent you for what you are politically: magicians, illusionists. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] In fact, and I say this to my colleagues in the majority, there are not two measures in question, there is no 100th share of the League and the citizenship income of the Movimento 5 Stars, there is only one measure on which the responsibility is unanimous, both of the Movimento 5 Stars and of the League. And you are illusionists because you want to occupy all the spaces of democracy: majority and opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You are majority, we are opposition. You must govern and we must try constructively to oppose it. Now I'll explain even more to you why you're a magician. It is said that citizenship income constitutes an essential level of benefits within the limits of available resources. This is crazy. This is crazy. But what vital level is it if it is compatible with resources? Then the resources will be the master and not the essential levels. [[Applause from Senator Ferrari]] This is the heart of your illusion: a citizenship income compatible with resources. This formulation is of absolute gravity. Colleagues, I conclude by reporting what my colleague Patriarch said: poverty is not just income poverty. There is social poverty. Income poverty is answered by work. Social poverty is answered by inclusion. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u41	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.23, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, up to the words "superior." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.26 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 1.27, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,27, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u42	Mr President, this is one of the few speeches that we are going to make, even given the limited time available to us, but we are going to do so. I take advantage of the explanation of the amendments, which allow me to make a general statement on Article 2, which includes the meaning of the amendments we have tabled on this part of the measure, to say that this is an important, fundamental article, without which the measure could not be discussed, because it concerns the beneficiaries, who are not only the people we are talking to and to whom we are addressing in the implementation of this instrument. In my view, in fact, in this article there are the reasons for the distance between the basic inspiration that has moved the idea of citizenship income, on which for our part there is no prejudice, as we have already had the opportunity to say in the Commission and elsewhere, and the actual implementation of this instrument. It is a distance in which we record a very strange thing - I say it with a euphemism - that here and there we see real traits of discrimination. We do not understand - I say this to you, Mr President, and through you to the majority - whether the majority is really interested in attacking the issue of the fragility, the marginality of this country, or just needs a flag to wave and is not worrying about who they are and should be the real recipients of the measure. The reasoning applies to the disabled, on which there has not been sufficient effort, as we have asked, and we hope that it can be realized in the transition to the House; it applies for example to children in poverty, who disappear in the centrality that instead had to be attributed to them within this measure, and for citizens from other countries, who live regularly in our country and who, because of the forecast of a requirement too strict, will probably come out of the mesh of the recipients of the provision, that is, will not be able to benefit from it. It is quite clear that we are within a chromatic evaluation. The yellow-green government is coloring more than just one colour, the green one, and that is why we want to exclude citizens who should be beneficiaries of the measure. I say this with a joke, Mr President: in this country there is a gigantic issue that concerns migrants; it is a huge issue, as big as a house. But these are not those who arrive in our country, but those who are leaving. The research that the Ministry has done, led by Vice Prime Minister Di Maio, together with ISTAT and other research institutes, tells us something very simple: since 2008 the number of young people in this country who are leaving Italy has tripled. Those are the migrants you don't care about. You are using and continue to use the weapon of mass distraction of the issue of migrants and do so also on such a delicate measure as that on citizenship income, to exclude women, men and children who should benefit from the resources and the routes indicated. The truth is that you are obsessed with this issue and have made it an element of political propaganda. With regard to our young people who leave the country, our migrants, perhaps it would be appropriate - I also tell the other colleagues of the opposition - to start overturning the common place of the right; perhaps from this overthrow can also arise the unmasking of the Government and also the idea and the need to really focus on the problems of the country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u45	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we withdraw Amendment 2.558.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u46	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u47	Mr President, I welcome Amendments 2.2, 2.8 (text 2), 2.512 (text 2) and 2.518. On all the other amendments referred to in Article 2, I am against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u48	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u49	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,700, tabled by Senator Barboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8 (text 2)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u52	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I asked to speak because I want to draw the House's attention to this part of the measure. My sub-amendment to the amendments adopted in the Commission concerns the payment of the income of citizenship to foreigners. I do not believe that it will be adopted, although it is right, but I want it to be traced back to the record of parliamentary work on what is being done. When the debate on citizenship income opened, 6 million people were told that they would benefit from it. We contested, for the general reasons that Senator Toffanin and the other colleagues have illustrated in this House and in the Commission, the negativity of this measure, not because we underestimate the condition of hardship and poverty of a large part of the Italian population, but because we believe that the solutions are other: job creation, opening of yards, all things that Forza Italia has supported. We believe, therefore, that money can be more properly paid out, even for the benefit of the part of the population living in distress, if not in poverty, creating productive economy and work. We do not underestimate the issues of discomfort and we are not against it because we do not want to help those who are ill. In this context, there was talk of 6 million positions; we said it would not be 6 million. You will remember the initial discussions on the figures (10 or 9 billion euros), one of which will be provided to the offices to create the structures responsible for offering the fantastic opportunities for work, the navigators and everything else that has been discussed. We also denounced that this providence would be given to foreigners and someone denied it. It can be argued whether it is right or not, whether there should be equalization for those who have been in Italy for a number of years, but then the evidence was denied. It is good, however, that citizens - as they say now - outside know that this measure will give money to many foreign people. It can be discussed whether they are entitled to this, whether there may be an instrumental use of the residence permit. We see that our autochthonous citizens have already made themselves smart, with separations of convenience and cunning of all kinds and nature to fall within the parameters, perhaps not having the right to do so. With my amendment, I propose that we restrict - for example - the possibility for foreigners to benefit from citizenship income by eliminating it for those who have temporary residence permits and leaving it for those who have permanent residence. I have introduced others, on which I will intervene, so that we know who is voting on the income of citizenship to foreigners with very generous criteria, and who, on the other hand, wants more restrictive criteria. This story will continue when the questions arrive, the money will erode and it will prove that we were right and that the people were not six million. So much so that then the text was changed, speaking of "platea": one takes the income, then has his aunt, grandmother, the canary and the red fish and the subjects are five: so there are not 6 million recipients, but the audience. Which isn't six million, but four and a half million, and that's not true either. It has been said that only the Italians would be the target groups, and I am addressing my colleagues in the League in particular: no, there are also foreigners, for whom the criteria - as you will soon see on other amendments - are very generous. In fact, not only those who have temporary residence permits, but also other people, who should not receive citizenship income, can have it. With Amendment 2.8 (text 2)/100 we want to introduce more restrictive criteria. I hope that my sub-amendment will be voted on, especially on this side of the House; if it is not adopted, then I will sing it, as the essay said. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of amendment 2.8 (text 2)/100, which restricts the possibility of providing citizenship income to foreigners. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u55	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to say that in the previous vote I wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u56	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u57	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.8 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u58	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Media School "Giuseppe Mazzini" of Veroli, in the province of Frosinone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8 (text2)/101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u62	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment is even clearer than the previous one, because - as I say to colleagues in this House - it restricts the possibility of providing citizenship income to EU citizens only. I therefore call on you to vote on this amendment. Europe doesn't ask for it, but the Forza Italia Group asks for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u63	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.8 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.705 is therefore excluded. Amendments 2.10 and 2.9 have been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 2.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the words 'n'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.12 and 2.13. Let us turn to amendment 2.15 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, until the words 'of the application' are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.16 and 2.17 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 2.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.16, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the words "two years" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.117 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 218.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u66	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment we have tried to introduce more restrictive criteria for granting citizenship income, in line with the approach of Forza Italia, which wants to give this access to Italians. We have proposed, in fact, that the time spent by foreign citizens should be extended to 20 years to try to contain also the economic damage caused by a rule such as the one under consideration, which opens up the meshes to a public expenditure which, sooner or later, will become unsustainable. The reason why we support this amendment is that we already have 241,000 foreign households who will receive income, which means that 241,000 households of Italian citizens will not receive it and are people living in poverty. That is the reason why we are asking the House to consider this amendment very carefully, so that what we are supporting remains in the act, in order to see who is voting on the one hand and also to understand, above all, who is voting on the other. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u67	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.18, tabled by Senator Aimi, to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 2.118 and 2.119 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 2.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u70	Garavini (PD). Mr President, in the narration given by the Government, the measure under consideration would seem to want to abolish poverty. We in the Democratic Party say, maybe that's true. As my colleagues have explained, this measure is actually unfair and discriminatory against a whole series of real poor people, starting with children, large families and homeless people. The measure excludes a myriad of entitled persons from the possibility of using citizenship income. I think not only of foreigners. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: We are, therefore, not only talking about foreigners from other countries of the European Union or refugees with rights, but also Italian citizens who may have gone abroad to escape situations of poverty and will be beaten, when they decide to return because they may want to make our country the epicenter of their life plan, the door to the face, because they are totally unable to obtain the income of citizenship in the light of that requirement of the residence obligation of at least ten years with the last two in a continuous way. President, this is not the abolition of poverty. Unfortunately, this is a gigantic electoral march ahead of the next European elections. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u71	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.20, tabled by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.21, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,122, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,122, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 2.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2,124, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u74	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with this amendment, we lend a hand to the 50,000 homeless, making the residence a fictitious one and a traditional one. This is the only measure in the world that is born with the aim of combating poverty and forgets - I don't know whether scientifically or not - who uses the sky as a roof and how to read the road. They're the homeless. Yeah, they're called homeless. Our amendment is aimed at reaching out to the last. I'm not talking about the penultimate. I wonder, then, how can a measure which aims to combat poverty be forgotten by the last. If you have done it scientifically and gently, it is serious; if it is negligence and imprudence, it is even more serious, because the titles and purposes do not correspond to the effectiveness that this measure will expound. It is also the only measure in the world aimed at combating poverty that scientifically forgets large families, disabled people and children. I believe there is nothing more to be added on this subject. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u75	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,124, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,125, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,125, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.26.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u78	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment provides for the possibility of giving access to citizenship income to those who, as non-EU nationals, have at least requested and initiated procedures for obtaining Italian citizenship. We do this for a very simple reason, which is to try to grant it (in case this measure should be approved and there should be conditions) to those who have at least sought a condition of stability. We could also discuss other issues - and we are doing this - but the central point, with this amendment, is precisely to give citizenship income to people who have initiated this kind of procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u79	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.26 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,701, tabled by Senator Barboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.269, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.269, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,270, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u80	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u82	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, with this amendment we call for an increase in the value of the economic indicator of the economic situation equivalent to EUR 15,000 for households with at least one disabled component. Forza Italia, in front of those who really need it, does not turn their heads on the other side; we have demonstrated it with a whole series of amendments in favour of the most disadvantaged groups and those who have disabilities within the family, because we believe that their disability needs more resources and more attention. We regret, unfortunately, that, during the examination of the measure in the Commission, there was no desire to make a contribution to those people and, above all, the desire to look for resources. It would have been a signal to indicate that this was really the purpose of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u83	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.270, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,271, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u86	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment is dedicated to disadvantaged, unlucky households. We call, in essence, for the calculation of the ISEE income not to take into account the amounts received as invalidity allowance, invalidity pension and accompanying allowance. It seems to me to be a clear rule, which goes in the direction of really helping people who are in an already established and real difficulty. I believe that the House, with a minimum of attention and sensitivity, can vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u87	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,271, tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.272.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u90	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, with amendment 2.272 it is proposed to include, where we are talking about real estate, the words 'in Italy and abroad'. We were - I mean - the first to highlight it for a very simple reason: we want to avoid even in this case that there is the race of the sly, that maybe they have a very high income in their country or are even owners of real estate in the foreign country. We have therefore tabled this amendment with the sole aim of ensuring that there can be no disparity with Italian citizens. It seems to me quite clear that we need, even in this situation, to add and carry other data that can highlight above all the properties and goods that foreigners have abroad, because in this way we would avoid unequal treatment, especially with Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.272 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 2.273, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u94	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on Amendment No 2.273 to remind my fellow Members that in the Commission we have the subject of the ISEE and the criteria which inform it on several occasions. We have said, with a somewhat simplified formula, that the ISEE is a useful tool for measuring wealth, but absolutely not useful for measuring poverty, because it contains unfair and distorting criteria that penalise in particular the owners of homes and first homes. It seems that having sacrificed a whole life to build or buy a house is an element to be penalised in the legislative framework. There is another matter, Mr President, always abbreviated, which concerns mortgage and rents: in our opinion it is incomprehensible why we can benefit from the income of citizenship to pay a rent and not to pay a mortgage, almost as if a couple of young people who intend to put on the house are in a higher wealth than those who pay a rent; indeed, the mortgage does wealth, while the rent does not, always according to the ISEE criteria. There is another consideration that emerges from an empirical finding made a thousand times in my personal experience and I believe in the experience of many colleagues: those who have the misfortune - because of the misfortune it is - to inherit a small plot of land or another small property, a fraction of the house, perhaps in a small mountain town, which has no real estate value, immediately sees their ISEE splashing up and is excluded from measures to combat poverty. This is irrational and unfair and in particular penalizes the less well-off Italian families and the large families. At this moment to inherit a piece of land or a piece of house, of which you do not have the full availability and you can not even theoretically put to use, is really a iattura. Mr President, we repeat the call to consider the fact that, if you inherit small portions of land or small real estate that are currently worth zero, these must be excluded from the ISEE calculation. I repeat this particularly because it is an aspect that heavily discriminates against Italian families and those who throughout their lives have had the good practice of building or buying a house and suffer a wrong for having sacrificed a whole life to work. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u95	I call on Senators Bertacco and Ciriani to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.273. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.321.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u98	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 2,321 has the purpose and function of avoiding the fake poor; we already have enough of the Italian ones, we would like to avoid having the foreign ones as well. We therefore ask that non-EU citizens be required to produce official certification issued by the country of origin, in particular through embassies and consulates, attesting that they do not possess real estate and other property. I believe - and the advance - that in the coming months on this point, if we do not approve the amendment to our examination, we will really see some good ones. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,321 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,322, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,322, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,323 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,326, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u102	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 2,326 because so far I have been shocked by the inattentive vote that has been expressed every time we talk about disability and people who need it. We are making a provision against those with disabilities. The government has said that it will have to decide at another stage on disability, but for the time being we will talk about the poor. The amendment tabled by my colleagues, Mr Toffanin and Mr Floris, which I would ask you to read, proposes that the incomes of people with disabilities be determined differently. Therefore, if you voted against the amendment, it means that you have no interest in considering people who are disabled; otherwise you would have made corrections to the text in order to make it pass. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u103	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,326, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.324, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u106	SACCONE (FI-BP). Mr President, dear Government, my solidarity goes to the abandoned and lonely Undersecretary. Your bogus estimates, which you included in the October 2018 Document of Economics and Finance (DEF), are going to crash - as Giovanni Verga would say - with the naked and raw reality. We have an industrial collapse of 7.5 percent; we have the collapse of our GDP, at a rate of less than 0.2 percent. There are so many patriots in the Chamber and, then, as an Italian, I say that we have been very bitter - ladies and gentlemen - for seeing our last tricolor in the European countries' ranking as regards economic growth. We are the European Union's taillight. That's the truth. To ensure that, with the introduction of citizenship income, you would eliminate poverty and increase the employment rate in Italy. Well, with the income of citizenship just over 2 million of our fellow citizens will receive income. It means you wiped out 8 million poor people. Dear Di Maio, from that balcony you have deceived and deceived 8 million of our fellow citizens, who are punishing you in the polls today. This is what's happening. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Dear friends, do you really believe that there is enough incentive for entrepreneurs to increase employment in the country? It would take more investment and cutting the tax wedge; other than citizenship income. Dear President, as Liberals and Christian Democrats engaged in politics, we want to say that for us the principle remains strong that no one should remain behind. And I say it above all the friends of the League: when we were in the government with President Berlusconi we increased the minimum pensions [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] ; we have increased deductions for children; we have introduced the target law on procurement and major works; we have introduced the baby bonus. Those were the tools that reduced poverty in Italy. Other than citizenship income. Who's gonna create a job? You have not answered this question. Will Minister Toninelli, who goes around Italy filming the pylons of the highways? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Toninelli, you have to wake up! You are the Minister of Public Works: start the construction sites in the country! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Or will that little "Dibba" think about it - with all due respect for Sciascia's little men - who are offended - and even insults the public - why doesn't the audience applaud him? This is what's happening. Dear Baptist, I suggest you a beautiful phrase by Esopus, according to which the smaller the mind, the greater the aspiration, the greater the arrogance. Mr President, allow me to end my speech with a little healthy irony, which is the only weapon we have to highlight the contradictions and limitations of this Government. Dear President Di Maio - he is not present in the Chamber, but he is present in the ether - forget the yellow vests. We already have a lot of trouble in Italy, there is no need to bring them from France [[Senator Castaldi's comments.]] Dear President Di Maio, we'll give you a blue vest. This amendment would provide for this, especially to help work. Dear President Di Maio, how can we give you a blue vest? For us, that vest represents the culture of work, the respect of workers and businessmen. Yet, Di Maio, with the decree-law on citizenship income should remember that a vest wore it: the one from steward at the Stadio San Paolo in Naples. That is a decent, decent job, which also has a social function, dear Undersecretary: when he did that job everyone looked at the game and he turned his back on the field, ensuring safety on the stands. Dear President Di Maio, we are sure - and I am going to conclude - that UEFA leaders will promote it as a steward of the Champions League, with double the salary. Our hope is that he will return to wear that vest, to free Italy and the Italians from its policies that create recession and unemployment. Today, with a smile on her face, we want to give her this vest. [[Senator Saccone shows a bib with a picture of Minister Di Maio and the writing "steward," which is taken from him by Senator Questre De Poli. Warm protests from the M5S Group. Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Colleagues, take him to Di Maio!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u107	No, senator! Put that thing down right now! Come on! These stadium events are not eligible. We're at the Senate of the Italian Republic! I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,324, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "of euro". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,329, 2,325 and 2,328 are therefore not included. Colleagues, I would like to say that the vote will continue until 1.30 p.m. Then there will be a break from the works, until 15 o'clock. 11:22 a.m.) We move on to amendment 2,327, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u110	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, we propose the withdrawal and transformation of this amendment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u111	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u112	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u113	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u114	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.327 will not be put to the vote. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,340, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.341, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,341 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,342, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u117	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, I would like to take up something very dear to us, which we have repeated over and over again when we discussed children and people with disabilities, both in the Commission and in this House. With this amendment, we once again propose with great calmness and seriousness the concept that the scale of equivalence you have introduced affects minors and families with children and disabled people. We do not say this by reporting our or mine data, which are not invented anyway, but simply by telling those that have been provided by Alliance against Poverty, ISTAT and INPS, which confirm that the equivalence scale you have introduced in this measure affects families with children and disabled and numerous families. As we said yesterday in general debate, you are well aware that this is an important issue, which concerns the country, in which we have more than a million poor children. On this, in previous years, we have tried to do something about it and I would like to list the related measures, Mr President, so that we do not always keep telling the usual story, such as: "We have arrived and we will also solve this problem, of emblée, in a second instance. I would like to remind you that in the 2016 budget law we have allocated 100 million each year to combat child poverty. I would also like to remind you that we have allocated 840 million NAP funds for inclusive schools against educational poverty. We have introduced the school-work alternation: you may ask what it has to do with it, but, as we have tried, if managed well, in the territories of difficulty and discomfort helps the children to get out of the situations of marginality; if managed well, the school-work alternation is a positive experience, of relief and inclusion in the territory, but you have also reduced this. In the fiscal law of 2018 we asked ISTAT - as we described in the rule - to identify clear parameters and indicators for determining areas with the greatest risk of educational child poverty. Again, in 2017, with Article 11, we set up a fund to activate interventions in school networks, in agreement with the third sector. I understand that when we talk about networks of schools, conventions and alliances on the ground, we use a vocabulary that you do not understand, because these words are not and do not exist in the income of citizenship. The fund we set up in 2017 was about activating networks of schools and conventions with the third sector, the CONI, sports federations and private and public educational services. What was the target? Preventing training failure, combating educational poverty and combating fragile situations in areas at risk of organised crime. On this central theme - families with children and disabilities and educational poverty - you have not wasted a single word. I say to Undersecretary Cominardi, very attentive during the debate - I speak with serenity - please go and look at the things that have been done, so at least let's start from there. Go look at the things we have tried to do in the past years and try to start from there, finally putting the themes of child poverty and large families at the center of your attention. Undersecretary Cominardi, it is not true that on this scale of equivalence you pay attention to families with children. That's not true. And Patriarch doesn't say it: the office data says it. I would like, please, to pay more attention to this subject, if you will allow me this courteous and attentive language. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u118	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,342, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.343, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,343, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.344, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,344, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.345, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,345, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.346 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 2,492, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,492 tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.702 tabled by Senator D'Arienzo, until the words "work" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2,493 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.509 tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.510.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u121	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment is intended to escape the clever tricks that the newspapers have told us. I am referring, in particular, to the long queues in front of the personal offices to change residence or in court to get to the separation. With Amendment 2.510 we propose to include a further requirement, which is to be registered regularly in employment centres for at least one year. If you want to get citizenship income, you will at least show that you are committed to looking for work for a year. In this way we will perhaps be able to get out of a spiral that - let me say - does not honor our country, because seeing people lining up to change their residence or going to court to separate is something indecent and indecent. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u122	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.510, tabled by Senator Aimi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.512 (text2)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u125	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, this measure, as we have already shown with various interventions today, also goes to provide non-EU foreigners with income for citizenship, denouncing what many had said, even in the majority. Every day they repeat "the Italians first" but then, in reality, with this measure they also provide a citizenship income to thousands and thousands, maybe tens, maybe hundreds of thousands of foreigners. It's a choice. We believe that instead the resources to create employment and work should go first to the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I say to my fellow Members that they are voting in favour of these rules which make a mistake. We already have a 10% population from abroad. Our country is a country that welcomes, a country that allows many to carry out their activities. However, with limited resources, the groups of hardship and poverty should see a priority at national or EU level. The amendment I have proposed restricts this right to the citizens of the European Union because, of course, discrimination is difficult at European level. It's a mistake to throw money that had to go to six million people and it's not six million because it's an audience of about four and a half million people because for each check there are four or five people, but it doesn't seem that way either. There is already a certain management confusion that will emerge resoundingly in the coming days, a great folk deception and people have noticed it, for this time their backs to the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They understood that this measure, which was one of the highlights of the programme, proved to be a deception and a scam. I am surprised by others voting in favour of a measure that gives money to foreigners. This amendment restricts the effects of this decree-law within the European Union. Those who vote against the amendment want to throw money out of the window, attracting other arrivals of illegals and foreigners to a country that they have already given on this side. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u126	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.512 (text2)/100, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.512 (text2)/101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.512 (text 2/102).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u129	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, with this amendment we are asking at least not to grant the income of citizenship to foreign persons - that is the correct wording - for whom the procedure for the withdrawal of residence permits is under way. With this rule you give, colleagues, the income of citizenship also to those for whom the withdrawal procedure is under way. I realize that the outcome of this procedure is not yet known, but at least, as a precautionary measure, if the withdrawal of the residence permit is in progress, no citizenship income is granted. On the other hand, all foreigners, ladies and gentlemen, are encouraged by this manifesto rule; it is therefore not "first the Italians," but first the foreigner who even if perhaps no longer has the right to a residence permit, meanwhile receives the income. If you vote in favour of my amendment, you will prevent it. If you also vote against the foreigner to whom we are withdrawing the residence permit. Something unspeakable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u130	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.512 (text 2/102, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.512 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.511 is therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 2,513, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,513 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). 11:38 a.m.) Let us move on to amendment 2,514, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,514, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.515, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2,703 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u133	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I would also like to speak on the following amendment 2.578 (text 2), which proposes measures in favour of women who are victims of violence, particularly in the family. We know that the most important and delicate moment when we are victims of violence in the family is precisely this, because we do not have the opportunity to escape and to get away from violence; we need protection, help, not to be alone. That is why it is inexplicable that the opposite opinion was also expressed in the following amendment which does not present expenditure charges. We had already had the impression and some warning that you want to make women feel more alone, as is apparent from the Bill Pillon. We had the impression that you were not very interested in giving the opportunity to escape these violence, to offer protection; today we have some more certainty. What defense do you offer these women? I'd have a little modesty, but I can't resist wondering what jacket or sweatshirt the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice advise you to wear to these women. Which one do they think they're wearing to defend them? What will be the vest or the occasion sweatshirt? Who's going to visit these women? How he will find them in their solitude, in their silence, in their invisibility. All this is truly inexplicable and yet we find it consistent in your intention to reject this amendment. We find the coherence of the manifest norms, of the distraction from the problems that afflict people, that of an approach towards the victims of violence, towards the violence of this society that we do not like, but above all to which we want to offer an alternative. It is not true that in order to defend against violence we must find someone else to take it upon, there is another way. Today we want to say this with great clarity to Italians and Italians, to all people, because we turn to people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u134	Senator Rossomando, having accepted the opinion of the Budget Commission, the amendment becomes identical to amendment 2.578 (text 2). He asked the government representative, Undersecretary Cominardi, to intervene. You cannot reply, after you can open the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak to clarify a little. There is all the interest on the part of this government in protecting women who are victims of violence. However, specifically in this amendment, we do not take into account that, in fact, thinking of doing a good thing, there is a risk of doing something that is not good. This is in addition to the fact that the Commission's opinion has also been rejected by the budget. But the issue is that if you take away that part of the income that goes to the household, in case of a single complaint about something that is perhaps not established or real, paradoxically you go to damage the whole family, that maybe is done even by minors. Therefore, the amendment, formulated in this way, does not benefit even those who might be subjected to this type of violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u138	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr. President, I'm only going to steal a minute. You always have to read the rules well before you talk. In this case it is not taken away from the family unit, but the author of the violence is excluded. The text has been written several times exactly to find the best solution. After all, when the idea is right, you can all apply yourself to find the best solution, otherwise the alibi is too easy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u139	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,703 (text 3), which incorporates a condition laid down by the 5th Commission, presented by Senator Rossomando and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 2,578 (text 2), tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,516, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, identical to amendment 2,517. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.516, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 2.517, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.518, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u140	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u142	AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, I really wanted to speak in an explanation of vote on Amendment 2.518. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We just approved it, Senator. AUDDINO (M5S). Mr President, I had indicated that I wanted to speak before the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Then we shall cancel the vote. Please take the floor for an explanation of vote. You have the right to do so. AUDDINO (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. The reason for my insistence is that this is a very important amendment, so I take a few minutes to the House just to say that it envisages excluding the beneficiary of the citizenship income if he voluntarily resigns. This applies to the twelve months following the resignation. But it is important to stress that this amendment excludes from the benefit of citizenship income only the person who has resigned and not the household, who will therefore continue to receive income for the part of the population. It was important to stress this point because this is not the case in the current wording of the text of the measure. I repeat, Amendment 2,518 intervenes in order to exclude only the person who resigned, obviously excluding cases for just cause.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u143	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.518, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.519 to 2.525 are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,526.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u146	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, Amendment 2,526 calls for the exclusion of all those who have been convicted of criminal offences which are not particularly serious. In particular, it is requested to exclude those who have achieved a total penalty of not less than two years with one or more convictions. On several occasions, it has been pointed out that citizenship income, in fact, is an incentive to undeclared work. On several occasions it has been stressed - and rightly so - how the income of citizenship is a way to discourage those who are out of work in the search for employment. On several occasions - and this is what this amendment is about - it has been stressed that the income of citizenship will be achieved by people living badly, by criminals, by thieves, by exploiters of prostitution, by drug dealers and so on. We simply find it absurd to steal resources from the poor for good, to give them to the criminals. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] With your requirements you will be entitled to citizenship income even multi-condemned for drug dealing, robbery, exploitation of prostitution and those who have made themselves responsible for serial theft in apartments and so on; people who live illicitly will also have state aid. For this reason, we ask that at least the House exclude those who have achieved serious sentences from the benefit. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u147	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Bartolomeo Capasso - Mazzini" of Frattamaggiore, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u148	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,526, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators, up to the words 'colorful' that are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.527 and 2.533 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,528, tabled by Senator Aimi, to the words 'citizens'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.530 and 2.529 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2,531 tabled by Senator Aimi, until the words 'family families' are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.532 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 2,534, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2,534, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the words 'n'. 159. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.535 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 2,536, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,536, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "n." 153.................................................................................................................................... (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 2.537 and 2.538 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,539, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words of the family. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2,540 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 2,541, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.541, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.542 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 2,543, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,543 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.544, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.544, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,545 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u151	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for amendment 2.545 (text 2) to be changed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u152	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda resulting from the transformation of amendment 2.545 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u153	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u154	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u155	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G2.545 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to amendment 2,546, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,546, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,547, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.547, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,548, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.548, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,549, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.549, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, up to the maximum words of 2.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2,551 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 2,550, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,550 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of amendment 2.552, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u158	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, we are also calling for this amendment to be changed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u159	I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the request made by Senator Matrisciano for the change of agenda for amendment 2.552.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u160	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u161	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u162	As the G2.552 agenda has been accepted by the Government, it will not be put to the vote. We move on to amendment 2,553, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, identical to amendment 2,554. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u165	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, on this amendment, which concerns the issue of people with disabilities, I also reiterated in the Commission the idea that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. On the question of the disabled, in fact, there was the will to understand that this measure is absolutely lacking and lacking and there was only the promise that, perhaps, one tomorrow in the House will intervene. I wanted to stress, first of all, that, given that the recipients of citizenship income are identified within households, the needs of justice and fairness would have wished that disabled people who enjoy economic care were directly beneficiaries and that this treatment, which is reserved for them, was not included in the calculation of the ISEE values. This would seem to me to be a minimal measure. Meanwhile, while everyone here exults for the income of citizenship, today's news is that half the funds for alternating school work have been halved. Are you crazy? Let's give alms and not give money for the alternance school work, where the kids learn a trade and a profession? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u166	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,553 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendment 2,554, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.705 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 2.8 (text 2). Amendment 2.555 (text 2) has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.555. Let us move on to amendment 2,556, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2,556, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, until the words "Ai soli fini" are put to the vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.557 are therefore not included. Amendment 2.558 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2,559, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,559 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2,560, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,560, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,561, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2,561, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, until the words 'the means' are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,562, 2,563 and 2 are therefore excluded. 564. Let us move on to amendment 2,565, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, identical to amendment 2,566. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,565 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendment 2,566, tabled by Senator Gallone and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,567, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, identical to amendments 2,568 and 2,569. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,567, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendments 2,568, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, and 2,569, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,570, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,570 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2,571, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,571 tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,572 tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,573, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,573 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,574, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,574, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, up to the words "incremented" of the "Senatori Papatheu". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 2,575 and 2,576 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.577 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The G2100 agenda has been withdrawn. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agendas and additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u167	Mr President, the G2.101 agenda was adopted with the following rewording: I am against all the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u168	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u169	Senator Nannicini, do you accept the reformulation? NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, I welcome you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.101 (text 2) and G2.555 will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u170	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u172	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). President. - I would like to speak on Amendment No 2,577, which I believe we have not yet examined. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've already voted for it, Senator La Russa. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). No, he didn't call him. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2,577 was voted before we asked for an opinion on the agenda and we rejected it. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Then I had raised my hand in time, President. Then I lowered it, but none of us heard that you called him.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u173	We rejected Amendment 2,577, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, with the simple opposite opinion. Let us turn to amendment 2.0,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u176	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, sometimes parliamentary technique also helps. If the whole Group does not feel that an amendment that was important to us had already been put to the vote, we are talking about the next one because you in the majority would have rejected it. We are more interested in the matter than in the outcome of the vote. Mr President, the vote on this amendment is, in fact, related to amendment 2,577. It is a free choice that the Group can make. We were in favour of that amendment because it is part of our attempt to limit the fact that the income of citizenship is not such, but in some way of residence. We believe that citizenship income - as we have said in all sauces - should be allowed, if you really think it is a measure to be taken, only for those who are citizens. The inclusion of those who have been in Italy for a number of years and who have certain requirements, according to our assessment, will soon be dismissed by a constitutional assessment. When you open the door to the possibility of accessing citizenship income to those who are citizens you will not then have to suffer the consequences of a perhaps correct assessment that will prevent you from restricting this openness to this or to that foreign citizen by reason of a number of years past or less with the residence permit. So we said, okay. In this context, at least (reputed five times), if you really think - and it is wrong - that citizenship income should also be given to foreigners, to nomads and to whom else you want, including those - as has been said before by my colleague in the Group - who are perhaps used to delinquering as they can also have it, let us try to ensure that, according to your logic, this does not go in favour of those who have lost the right to a residence permit and who could retain it only thanks to the citizenship income you have given him as a foreigner here for many years. The current rule provides that under certain conditions the right to a residence permit will be lost; you want to reintegrate those who had this difficulty, giving him the money that the law provides for him to have thanks to his work, not to the regalia of the State: that is the meaning of the amendment that I have not been able to discuss, and that cannot be voted again, but that at least he will remain present at the Assembly of this Senate. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u177	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.700, tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.701, tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.702, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.702, tabled by Senator Ferro. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u178	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 3.309 and 3.800. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u179	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u180	Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u183	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of this House to this debate on Amendment 3.1, which proposes to supplement the income of citizenship with a contribution for poor families of EUR 300 for each dependent child under the age of six. I would like to draw attention to this amendment, which is part of a system that we have set up. I would like to stress that in its many amendments, Brothers of Italy has prepared a package of alternative measures to design a welfare model. So not segments, but an intervention and a model of the system, in view of the fact that the citizenship income was presented as a measure to combat poverty, inequality and social exclusion while we consider this your formula a wrong answer to a just need. That is why we have proposed this amendment, together with others: we have proposed employment and citizenship income only for Italians; we have proposed a set of measures to support large and poor families: the above-mentioned childhood income. And again, I want to emphasise, we have prepared and also imagined a fund of EUR 1 billion for the family quotient. (at 12.07 a.m.) (Rauti followed). You see, in this set of measures, including that contained in Amendment 3.1, we have drawn a social pact, also imagining contributions to those who create jobs and to those who work on their own and a reduction in taxes for businesses, for those who hire, for the self-employed and for pensioners. From our point of view, the income of citizenship is the result of a welfare logic, which does not produce growth and which will encourage undeclared work; a useless waste of public resources and an electoral spot, indeed a misleading advertising, as we have defined it, since that is not what was promised in the electoral campaign. It will not go to the real needy, but it will go to the evaders, to the divanists, to those who live in lawlessness and to the smart ones. It is not a citizen's income and it is not even a poverty benefit. Those who speak to you are part of that social right which first proposed the minimum income of social inclusion, the social wage; so we are not insensitive to the issue, but we think this proposal is wrong. Our - and I conclude - is a package of welfare with a social quotient that imagines at the center of each intervention families, with their specific needs, based on the number of their members, based on the number of dependent children, disabilities and the elderly: a system of equity, social justice and inclusion, to overcome a model of welfare welfare State and lay the foundations - we would like by the Government of the change - of a subsidiary social model, horizontal and of community concept, with at the center the people, the families and their needs, not the individuals, those of the clicks of the platform Rousseau. You see, we designed a real inclusion project. This proposal is not an extension of material democratic rights (in this case we would have supported it), but a buffer intervention; it above all replaces the sacred right to work and will not eliminate poverty. We think that this whole plant is soulless and it's just an electoral tip. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u184	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,251, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.252, tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,286 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,287, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,287 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,288, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,288 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,289, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,289, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,390, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3,390, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, until the words "commodated of use" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.292 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 3,291, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,291, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,293 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 3,294, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,294 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3,295, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,295 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.296 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3,297, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,297 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,298 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.305 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 3306, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3306 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3307, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.309, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.308 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.310, tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 3.311, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.311, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "in the measure of "the". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3.312 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.313, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.314, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.315, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.316, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.316, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.322, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, identical to Amendment 3.323, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.324, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, identical to Amendment 3.326. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u187	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with Amendment 3.324 we are asking that paragraph 15 of Article 3 be deleted. In this case, too, the majority and the government have succeeded in giving birth to a heavy and violent humiliation against the perceptors of citizenship income. A certain control that leaves the perceptor breathless both for quantity and for the quality of the expenditure. In fact, you predict the loss of 20% of the benefit if not spent in the previous month: only the electronic bracelet was missing and then the verification would be really without margin of error. How can a father feel that before the eyes of his children has a limitation on the expense - whether it is 100, 150 or 200 euros - when instead the children, when the parents give him a allowance, are left a margin of discretion because from it comes the individual development of the person? This is a violation of a human right: other than the marginal adjustments on the basis of the invitation and the solicitations of the oppositions and of the Data Protection Supervisor. This guarantor authority has told you that the rules of the decree-law present... important critical issues..., that , the processing of personal data, even if carried out by public administrations and pre-ordered... to the pursuit of reasons of relevant general interest, must be designed and set according to the principles of the European Regulation on Data Protection. The implementation of citizenship income cannot, in fact, circumvent the guarantees of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the data protection regulation, to the detriment of the persons whom this benefit intends to protect, and who, in these respects, the discipline of citizenship income, as formulated, does not appear, in several respects, suitable to meet the requirements of European law. Colleagues, focus even more on protecting privacy, human rights and the dignity of people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u188	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.324, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 3.326, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.327, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.327, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.328, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.328, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.329, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.330, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.330, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,800/100, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u189	Mr President, I have proposed a few surgical amendments to Article 4 - I have also done so for a number of subsequent articles - since there is clearly no point in discussing the major issues. I did this to help the draftsmen to do what was said in general debate yesterday. For example, yesterday it was said that this is a redistribution maneuver but, considering that it is done in due course, it is unlikely that it can be considered that way. In the original version of the citizenship income measure there was a levy on large assets, over 2.5 million euros, due to a coverage of 2,100 million euros, but then "Giangi didn't want" and therefore that type of coverage was suppressed. Or I have proposed some amendments always to help decide that this is not an economic manoeuvre, because it affects 2% of the final consumption of households, which amounts to 319 billion euros, and therefore it concerns only 6 billion euros (final consumption represents a sixth of GDP, so you understand what this economic maneuver can be, but because in the communication sheets it was written that it should be called an economic maneuver, then it was said that it was such). The amendments would like to rebalance the treatment that a person in ordinary job search receives compared to someone who receives this type of payment. Let us take the case, for example, of a person who receives a job offer, comes to the interview and, under penalty of the decline of the offer, is forced to accept a job in any location in Italy. This receives has a treatment, while one who is a recipient of the supply can afford to refuse the offer, having three wilds to play. Not only that: if the first offer is within 250 kilometers, it is considered congruent, so discriminate against a person who seeks work on his own and does not receive this income, compared to one who receives it instead. The second example relates to the threshold of securities above which there is no benefit. Let's take a single without a household that is below 6,000 euros: this person can receive the income of citizenship. Instead a person who stands at 8,000 euros - I give 30 percent and I'm a three-month jolly survivor of full citizenship income - can't access citizenship income - which he may ask for later, but that's all to be established - and is further discriminated against. So this measure, which should serve to rebalance, really discriminates. What, then, are the amendments that I would like to put forward? First of all, that you do not have three jokers to play, but only one: if a job offer on the national territory is well, you take it; otherwise, friends as before. Another aspect concerns the matter of real estate set at 6,000 euros, which is actually not a correct parameter (and I wanted to give 2,000, but if it were 6,010 or 6,020, you understand that there would no longer be an equal treatment). Let us then try to do at least what you said you would like in this citizenship income, namely not discriminate against people who, for one reason or another, seek work independently.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u190	Amendment 4.12 proposes an addition to paragraph 2 of Article 4. Where there is talk of work and exclusions, it is also done in cases where disabled people are present. On the other hand, we propose that a disabled person, wherever he wishes or is able to work, should be included in special lists provided for by all labour inspectorates; therefore, a disabled person, if he wants to work, should be included in special lists.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u191	Mr President, I would like to speak in order to put forward several amendments tabled by my group's colleagues, because we would like to stress one aspect which is fundamental in our view in order to define the law that we are debating. I refer to the beginning of Article 4, which reads: The provision of the benefit is conditional on the declaration of immediate availability for work by the components................................................................................................................ Well, let me say that this is an unfounded and false statement. During the general discussion, we heard many speeches puffed up by rhetoric, especially from colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars. I have perceived a Manichaean rhetoric, which separates the world between good people (they, who think of the poor and those who do not have work) and bad people (who still think that work must be created by society and businesses, and then be offered to those who seek it). However, apart from this, to define what is an intervention that is not already of a social, cultural and pure philanthropy nature, as they have described it, but simply of an electoral type, it is sufficient to read Article 4 and compare it with what we have just voted on. In fact, it is not true that the contribution will be awarded after the signing of the Covenant for Work and the Covenant for Social Inclusion: it will be exactly the opposite and you have written it when you require the municipalities and the INPS to determine very quickly the criteria and the availability of resources. So, meanwhile, the prepaid card will be assigned, then, very calmly, there will be time and space to make - perhaps - the Covenant for Work and the Covenant for Social Inclusion. Here we are witnessing the logical reversal of an elementary principle that applies all over the world - and also in Italy - by virtue of which if I sign a contract of employment, in the meantime I begin to work and then, at the end of the month, I receive the salary. The opposite is not the case. In this case, however, the urgency is to give the prepaid card (which the beneficiary will use today, tomorrow and in the coming months) and then, after the adoption of 24 implementing decrees, perhaps we will be able to start the Covenant for Work and the Covenant for Social Inclusion. This will happen after we have hired 10,000 navigators with very doubtful transparency criteria (I hope that the navigators will not be the forestry of the 21st century). Then, we will have time to determine with the Regions what will the centers for employment and where will physically be 6,000-10,000 navigators: in which 10,000 rooms, with which 10,000 computers? Doing what? We therefore reiterate that this measure has an electoral nature. The time for the signing of the Pacts is so far gone that we will lose track of them, but for that moment, the European elections will have arrived and then the problem will be solved. We support, once again, that the Pacts must be signed first and that the requirements must be established. This is also a huge problem: who will look at millions of questions and tens of millions of pieces of justification? Who's gonna do it? Are we going to put a police officer in control of every single reporting agent in a country where, unfortunately, legality is widespread? And what are we gonna do about the CAFs and the Regions? Colleagues, something very special and fun is happening. We are discussing new frontiers of autonomy for the regions. But the regions have a very clear competence - social services and vocational training - that we are emptying. It seems to me that this is a reverse self-government, but maybe someone can deny me. I conclude by saying that Article 4 contains provisions that are not true. To the municipalities - I am just talking about these - you think of entrusting the task of offering public works and give them six months of time to prepare the cards and do the projects: horse-riding, maybe it will take one or two years, who knows. This is a measure that overturns the natural logics of contract and common sense. This is an electoral measure and spare us your rhetoric about poverty and unemployment. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u192	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u193	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 4.9 (text3), 4.23, 4,800, 4,900, 4.84, 4,101 (text3), 4,104, 4,41 (text 3), 4.4 (text 3), identical to Amendment 4.149, and 4,150 (text 2). I am against all the other amendments tabled in Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u194	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u195	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.6, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Masini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.9 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.10, 4.11 and 4.12, as well as amendments 4.97, 4.98, 4.704, 4.99 (text 2) and 4,100, are therefore incorporated. Amendments 4.13 and 4,700 are also excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Masini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u198	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, Amendment 4.18 proposes a subject which we dearly love and on which we have already pointed out in previous speeches problems and difficulties, saying that when drawing up the income of inclusion, which - alas - vaguely the majority just recognizes, the municipal services were put at the centre, which carried out the first instance interview. I therefore wonder why the majority does not vote in favour of this amendment: it is simply a rationalization of taking charge. You go from the municipality, from the services that are the most equipped to make a multidimensional assessment of the needs; then, if necessary, the services turn the person concerned to the employment centers, or the social services of the local agency agree to the pact of inclusion. It is simply a way of making the take-over more efficient. I am a little disconcerted because this is a measure that costs nothing and does not even create problems for the very structure of the decree-law in question (which we continue not to share). It was simply a reasonable proposal to improve the take-over, as has been the case up to now. I conclude by saying to the Government that this forecast has worked in these years of activation of the income of inclusion. The municipalities have built on this skills, concrete experience in taking charge. I therefore wonder why this proposal, which does not threaten the structure of the decree-law in question, is not accepted - I say this to the Secretary-General who always seems attentive to these issues. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u199	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.18, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.19, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.20, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.21, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u200	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Istituto comprensivo "Enrico Forzati" of Sant'Antonio Abate, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u201	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.22, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.23, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.24, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,800/100, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,133, 4,134, 4,135 and 4,136 are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.25.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u204	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, Amendment 4.25 aims to ensure that beneficiaries of citizenship income are summoned within 30 days of the submission of the application, rather than from the time when the income is paid. This is to ensure that the income is not paid before the competent services have taken charge of the person. The amendment does not cost anything, and it seems to us to be extremely sensible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u205	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.25, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.26, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.29, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.30 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of amendment 4.54.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u208	PEROSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, amendment 4.54 gives me the opportunity to clarify some of the things that we have also discussed in the Forza Italia Group, which - I stress - is animated and deepened, and to talk about bureaucracy. I would like to address the government representatives, asking them to fall into the situations that will occur. Are we convinced that what we are going to approve, these amendments and the context of this measure are manageable? Let me give you an example of the bank balances that need to be demonstrated. But if during the period of the perception the bank balance changes, how are the kilometers counted? On a ferrata road, on a provincial road, on a highway? Do you also understand galleries? Just to give an example. I'll make another one. If we divide the number of instructors (4,000) by the number of beneficiaries of income and by the number of working days, including holidays and mutuals, in my opinion - try to do the calculation - the instructors will have ten minutes each to examine. How are they gonna get down in the case? Then I worry. The penalties are provided for: there is prison. New prisons will have to be built. Or we will have to recover what has been paid out, by doing revenge actions that may fall on people who have also disappeared. Someone at work yesterday ironed. I know the offices of work, I have followed them as provincial administration: I know that good people work there, that they are the real front office of situations of difficulty, but they are few, they put stamps and they do not create work. The people who work there know that. How do you create work? By hiring other employees who wear stamps, what do they do with falcons? Faced with this, as a citizen and as a Member of Parliament, I am genuinely concerned that a great chaos is created. I add a note on quota 100, because it is always about bureaucracy. I would urge the Government to develop this trend: today the most wise scholars argue that it is necessary to intervene on manual work and not on those employed. It may be displeasing to some categories, but at the age of 65 it is actually difficult to work on a scaffolding, while in an office, even if not completely updated, maybe you can work. All these considerations make me say, starting from the bureaucracy, but arriving at a strong statement, that 100, income of citizenship, the missed collections of the do not pardon (because it is forbidden to express this concept, but will go to 30 November) and the flat tax, that in the first months has not collected, will produce a terrible hole in the coffers of the State, that for "nasometry" quantum in 50 billion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u209	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.54, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, up to the words 'in which it is tabled'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.55 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.56, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.57, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.81, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.82, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,900 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.83, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.84, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.85, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.86, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,87.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u210	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u212	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise on this amendment and on Amendment 4.88. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, as we know, there is no work in Italy, there is little work and it is certainly not created by decree. For this reason, we propose, in Amendment 4,87, to limit from three to one job vacancies which may be refused by the applicant for citizenship income. In fact, the paradox of this provision is that the rule proposed by the majority requires that the work offered should be full-time and indefinitely: something that now exists more in imagination than in reality. And in order to help these people, to whom the State asks to accept only full-time and permanent work, the State takes on six thousand precarious. In other words, it does not offer the people it hires, in order to help the income of citizenship, even the conditions it claims are offered to those who, on the other hand, should benefit from the income of citizenship. That's absurd! [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Therefore, it would be more logical to foresee that even fixed-term work, non-full-time work, part-time work, if they offer minimum conditions of decency, can be included in the provision of this standard. However, it is certainly absurd to envisage three job vacancies that can be rejected. Just like all these people: stay quiet on the couch, because we will never be able to offer you three full-time and permanent job offers. That is why I welcome the adoption of these two amendments. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u213	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.87, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.88, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 4,702, tabled by Senator Martelli, up to the words 'one of three'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4,89 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.90, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 4.91, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.92, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.93, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4,703, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.94, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.95, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,101 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4101 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u214	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u215	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u216	BOTTO (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to speak on this amendment is very important because it is in favour of those families who have underage children, establishing the adequacy of the third job offer within 250 kilometres: this for the first twenty-four months of benefit. This is a very important forecast, because it refers to the general principle of family reunification and is also associated with the attention that families must have in the case of disabled children. I have heard a number of things in this House, including tips. I would remind the House that the electoral tip is not the income of citizenship; the electoral tips we saw in the last parliamentary term were measures that did not go to help the absolute poor, who have increased to almost 5 million in the last ten years. This is a measure that goes, instead, to help those families that are also found in the situations that described before the colleague of the Democratic Party when he spoke of the embarrassment that a father must try to manage the 100 euro liquid of the citizenship income card. I wonder: how does a father feel in front of his children not having a salary? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do we realize that we are making a real move on the cases of absolute poverty? Bertolt Brecht said that the poor hope for justice, while the rich hope for injustice. We are finally giving voice to this hope. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u217	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4101 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I apologize to Senator Toffanin, but I had skipped Amendment 4.96, on page 113, which is not foreclosed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,96.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u220	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking to make specifications. The measure, unfortunately, is a sin of ambiguity and legislative voids. There are really inconsistencies in the text and one of them is identified when it comes to moving within 100 minutes by public transport without specifying which ones. It could be the train or the plane. I think there is a need for clarity so that there is no ambiguity. I think it is obvious that we can make a point, but that has not been accepted in the Commission either. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u221	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.96, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.99 (text 2) to 4.100 are absorbed by Amendment 4.9 (text 3). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4102, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.103 tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4104/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 4104/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4104 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.705, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 4105, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4105, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.29 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.30, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.31 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.32 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,133 to 4,136 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 4,800. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.138, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.139 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.706, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.40.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u222	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u224	IORI (PD). Mr President, amendment 4.40 was designed to heal a very serious vulnus such as the exclusion from the preparation of projects to combat poverty of those who have contributed decisively in recent years to the system of combating poverty in our country. I am talking about the third sector, which provides essential answers even where the state's responses do not arrive or are not sufficient. We believe convincedly - we have also supported him in the difficult days when you had rashly increased the IRES on volunteering - that poverty is not defeated by a decree and that loneliness and fragility require an overall intervention of cultural growth, training and strengthening the territorial dimension of taking charge. It is not enough, therefore, only employment centres; an alliance between the public, volunteering, non-profit, the social partners and the productive forces is needed. We need a solid and organized alliance of all the forces acting on that territory. We therefore need the territorial community. I believe that you are conducting a demagogic operation that superficially breaks this alliance, trying to proceed to the umpteenth operation of centralistic nature that calls into question a network of actions and commitment that for years constitutes the framework of community welfare and welfare generator of cohesion and sustainability. Dear colleagues, I believe that there is no shortcut to generate reception and counter loneliness and indifference. We must start from the territory and do it together, in an alliance that consolidates in the daily sharing of the living forces of the territorial community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u225	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.40, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.141 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u228	COMINARDI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. Mr President, I would ask that Amendment 4.141 (text 2) be reworded as follows: in the third row, replace the words: "up to 16 hours per week" by the following: "up to a maximum of 16 hours per week." On the text thus reworded, the Government gives a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u229	I ask Senator Pizzol if he accepts the rewording proposed by the government. Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.141 (text 3), tabled by Senator Pizzol and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.142 is therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4,143, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words of this decree. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 4.144, 4.145 and 4.146 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.147, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.148.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u232	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment, which obviously received an opinion against it, takes account of the reality, while this measure is all based on bureaucracy and offices and not on the reality of our territory. Here it is said that, if the municipality in which the person resides cannot offer the opportunity to have the required hours of service, the Municipality next door can be well. I remember that in Italy there are municipalities like Rome, to cross which it takes hours of travel in some circumstances, and there are other municipalities very small, at a very short distance from which there is another. But it's all the same. For example, in the case of a distance of 250 kilometers, account is not taken of the connections that exist. It's all theoretical, it's all on the computer, maybe some important character behind a government party, but not in reality. Unfortunately, reality will show that this measure is inapplicable and creates illusions, from which very heavy reactions can arise. Let us remember that the way to give answers to people who are out of work is to create job opportunities, not create bureaucracy, controls, watchers, navigators and so on. It's all money thrown away, which, if they were used instead to create a job, could give untemporary solutions, without creating the professionals of citizenship income, as we are seeing instead. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u233	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.148, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.4 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4,150 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[The electronic scoreboard shows that some Senators of the M5S Group voted against. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,151, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.152 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,153 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u234	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u235	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u236	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, Amendment 4,153 (text 3) refers to paragraphs 8 to 15 of Article 4, in parts where the pact for social inclusion, the pact for employment, active job search, job guidance, training and retraining are envisaged; a series of requirements for membership of citizenship income. The question that arises is this: what if, after admission to citizenship income, the person concerned becomes ill? What if the percerate of citizenship income is diagnosed with a crippling or worsening oncologic disease? It is in the things that he who is diagnosed with such a disease, admitted to benefit because he has the qualifications, cannot respond to the offers of the job. It is in the things that he who accepts the job offers, perhaps even very far from home, fails, for obvious reasons, to carry them forward. The person who has the requisites and is entitled to it would therefore lose his right to citizenship income. Amendment 4,153 (text 3) protects this type of fact, i.e. those who possess all the requirements to obtain citizenship, after admission to the benefit, are diagnosed with a disease of this nature and therefore must withdraw from the benefit or in any case this will be withdrawn from it. It is clear that in these cases this is independent of the will of the subject and the benefit is lost regardless of his own will. It is therefore a punishment absolutely not deserved. The amendment corrects this distortion and in fact recognizes this type of disease as a social phenomenon; it is therefore a call for help so that these people are not left alone. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u237	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u238	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u239	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I wanted to make it clear on behalf of the Group that all Members should not stand up one by one to ask to change the vote, that on Amendment 4,150 (text 3) the vote on Movimento 5 Stars is in favour. [[Comments from the PD desks.]] I gave a wrong vote. [[Comments from the PD desks.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u240	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,153 (text 3), tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.154, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their opinion on the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u241	Mr President, I am in favour of the G4100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u242	Mr President, the Government is in favour of accepting it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u243	Having been accepted by the Government, the G4100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u244	Mr President, with amendment 5.704 it is considered right to have some extra control over the people who use the RDC card, which is apparently a clone of the prepaid yellow Postepay paper of the Italian Post Office. First, this card will not bear the name and surname of the percerator, when instead all credit cards have it and is a check to make sure that the person who makes the purchase is the one corresponding to the card. Then it's very easy for a card that doesn't even have the name to be sold to a friend who goes shopping, spending 100 euros, then comes back puts 100 euros in your hand and you go to a slot room. There's no control whatsoever, because it's a prepaid. Secondly, in order to prevent people from taking the fictitious residence in Italy, as already happens for people who have a fictitious residence and who have agreed on the day of control of the residence with the local police, it would be appropriate to avoid that a person can use the card to make online purchases. As a prepaid card, you can shop online and have them shipped anywhere in the world. I can buy on an Australian website and have, for example, goods sent to Congo: this is not forbidden. Also, just to make sure that you are giving money to a physically resident person, it would be appropriate for people to show up physically, every week, to get the card reloaded. If you have a Prepaid Post Card and you don't have a Post account, you will show up to do the recharge de visu. I wonder why the same thing cannot be done for the normal holder of a prepaid card, the same and the same. This proposal is designed to make it possible at least to equate the two situations. Finally, I ask you whether you have considered the fact that the card can be used for a purchase abroad and then returned, perhaps sent in a normal envelope, as if it were a postcard. This is also something to take into account, because the purchasing power of the euro in a nation where the cost of living is lower allows you to buy a lot of stuff. Therefore, the card could be sold temporarily, to make a purchase abroad, and postponed by ordinary mail, with the pure and simple expense of postage. So this amendment would like to put "one piece" on at least these small things, while checking the possible abuse of an unnamed prepaid card is virtually impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u245	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u246	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 5,48 (text 2), 5,800, 5,64 and against the remaining amendments. Finally, I would like to express my support for the G5100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u247	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. With regard to agenda G5.100, the Government is willing to accept it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u248	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 5.48 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/100, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,800/101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u251	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, the amendment before us is a very important one, which could really affect the whole system of the measure. It concerns the issue of privacy. We had asked the Commission for the hearing of the Guarantor, who was not granted to us not by the will of the Government or the rapporteurs, but because at that time the Guarantor was not available to be present, but nevertheless left his memory. The whole system is conditioned by the opinion on the privacy of people and for this reason it should be rethought and revised substantially. In fact, in order to obtain the income of citizenship, people will be given a full X-ray of their state: beyond the balance sheet, they will also be examined the state of health and the family, habits and interests. This is a little 'orwellian situation, from "1984" and from Big Brother: maybe all this is excessive. With this amendment, we therefore call for the inclusion of the Data Protection Supervisor, to whom all information on information management systems and those involved in the activity must be provided. It is a advice that we give to protect people and, in any case, also a measure because, if these guarantees were not respected, it could really fall off the whole system of the norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u252	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/101, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/102, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/103, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/104, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/105, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/106, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800/107, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 5.22, 5.23, 5.24, 5.25 and 5.26, as well as amendment 5.703, are therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,47.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u253	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u255	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this amendment was obviously linked to our proposal to foreclose the income of citizenship to those who have reported serious crimes. In our opinion, however, even after the majority rejected that amendment, it remains logical to provide for the presentation of the certificate of the judicial record, because there are crimes, even very serious, that could preclude the offer of one job, rather than another. I am just making the most striking example: to a person who has been convicted of paedophilia, I do not think it is appropriate to offer a job in a kindergarten or in a nursery or primary school. I therefore consider it appropriate to provide, in any case, that the certificate of the judicial record should also be included in the documentation to be attached to the application. I would point out that in Article 7, among other things, there are amendments by the Commission which provide for the forfeiture of the benefit for those who commit serious crimes. All the more reason, therefore, the certificate of the judicial record is indispensable. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u256	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u258	MANCA (PD). Mr President, the amendments before us, together with others previously foreclosed, have as a fundamental objective the restoration of a relationship of loyal collaboration between the system of local autonomy (i.e. the municipalities and the ANCI), the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the INPS. In our view, denying this precondition means continuing to insist on a madness that has governed the whole measure, totally based on a wrong assumption, which holds on the same hand poverty and the demand for a job. This assumption, unfortunately, is bending the whole measure towards a wrong direction, blows the loyal collaboration between the different levels of government and uproots the theme of poverty where - unfortunately - it lives every day, that is, in the territory. We have before us two possibilities and one certainty, namely that you - colleagues of the majority and representatives of the government - have never seen poverty in the eyes. In fact, poverty lies in the territory and, unfortunately, is expressed in the outskirts and in the local and territorial dimensions. It requires answers not only to the need for a job, but also - mainly - to social fragility that prevent people from being able to enter the world of work and that are within the family. With this measure you do not respond to poverty. The measure has an electoral nature and deals not with people, but with elections. This is one of the key points. For this reason, we have insisted and insist on the need to regain a relationship of loyal collaboration between the different levels of government. Extending the territory and eradicating social problems from the territorial dimension, preventing municipalities from actively participating in this process, means not wanting to face poverty. Colleagues, we tell you immediately, poverty will increase and social fragility will be even wider in the territorial dimension. Without welcoming and taking responsibility for the territorial dimension, poverty increases and does not diminish. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u259	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.47, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.50 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.51 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.53, tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.54, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 5,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,700, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.55, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendment 5.56, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5,701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,701, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.57, tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). RAMPI (PD). Mr President, we have reached an hour when work has been cut off! There's a meeting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we're five minutes away. We shall end the vote on the amendments tabled in Article 5. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.58, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.59, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, identical to amendment 5.60, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.61, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 5.62, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, until the following words are added: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.63 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,702, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.64, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5,703 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 5,800. Let us move on to amendment 5,704, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,704, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,86 tabled by Senators Nannicini and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.87 has been withdrawn. Senator Endrizzi, the government representative accepted the G5.00 agenda as a recommendation. Are you insisting on the vote? ENDRIZZI (M5S). No, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G5100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.2 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.34 p.m. and resumed at 3.05 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u260	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 6,800, 6.6 and 6,18.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u261	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. If possible, as I have already pointed out to the Offices, I would like to make some formal amendments to Amendment 6,800, tabled by the Government. I'll read you the speech. The need for a formal correction following the text of amendment 6,800 needs to be highlighted. In fact, in article 6, paragraph 1, in the amended text, the reference to the Unitary Information System of Labour Policies (SIUPL) has been deleted, although the digital platform for the activation and management of work pacts remains placed at the ANPAL and, according to the following paragraph 2, continue to be part of the same information system. For a formal coordination of the text, it is therefore appropriate to modify also article 8, paragraph 1, replacing the words "digital platform" dedicated to the DRC in the context of the SIUPL" with the words "digital platform" dedicated to the DRC at the ANPAL and to modify article 9, paragraph 4, replacing the words "the SIUPL" provides immediate communication with "the Unitary Information System of Labour Policies" provides immediate communication.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u262	I invite you to deliver the text to the distribution offices. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2,/102, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2),/103, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2)/104, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2)/105, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,800 (text 2), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.1, 6.3 and 6.4 (text 2) as well as amendments 6.10, 6.701 and 6.11. Amendment 6.2 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6,700, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 6.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 6.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.7, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 6.8, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.9, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 6.10, 6.701 and 6.11 are foreclosed by the adoption of amendment 6,800 (text 2). Amendment 6.12 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 6.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.13, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.14 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.15, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.16, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.17, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On Amendment 6.18, on which the rapporteur and the government gave a favourable opinion, the request was made for provision for further consideration. Therefore, I have the provision for it at the moment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u263	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u264	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u265	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, who asked for the provision of amendment 6.18?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u266	Senator Ferrari, the Presidency was faced with amendment 6.18, on which the Government and the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion. However, it includes a technically incorrect wording, which, in other cases as well as in other groups of majority and opposition, I have asked for a rewording. The text refers to a decree by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Now, with respect to a decree by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, a similar legal source must always be opposed at the time of amendment. Therefore, since there is a technically incorrect wording, I have the provision for a rewording, which - as the senators of this House know - I have already done so, both to the majority and to the opposition, when I checked the admissibility of the various amendments. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.19, tabled by Senator Damiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 6.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 6.0.1, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators, up to the words '18 August 2000'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder and amendments 6.0.2 to 6.0.5. are therefore not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u267	Mr President, I have three amending proposals. The first two concern what to do when the perpetrator or beneficiary of the payment fails to comply with all the requests contained within the bill. In particular, paragraph 5 states: It is laid down the forfeiture from the income of citizenship (rdc). In my opinion, it should also be added that everything that has been unlawfully given back should be given back, because it was obtained on the basis of a false declaration. This is the first proposal. Paragraphs 7 and 8 relate to non-compliance with a number of requirements. The reductions are progressive: first a monthly and then two monthly. In my opinion, this should not be the case: because it is taxpayers' money, my proposal is that there should be an immediate lapse with the possibility, within seven days, of submitting counter-deductions. If there are no counter-deductions, there is no responsibility. The last amendment, which I consider most important, relates to paragraph 10. The constitutionally guaranteed right to health against the constitutionally guaranteed right to enter a list for the possible perception of the provision of citizenship income is at stake. This is particularly true when reference is made to prevention and treatment commitments aimed at health protection. There seems to be a risk of coercion to health care or even prevention. Without wanting to bring something specific into play, it is not possible to treat a constitutionally guaranteed right such as this as blackmail, without which condition you cannot get the benefit. This part should definitely be exploded. [[Applause from Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u268	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments tabled on Rule 7. I begin with Amendment 7.5. Any one of you who has a minimum knowledge of the criminal system or the legal system of our country realizes that the penalty as provided for in the decree-law under consideration is dystonic, in the sense that it is completely contrary to any principle of consistency of the criminal system. There is, that is, none of the crimes of falsehood, even committed by public officials, that is punished with the same penalty as the decree-law. I have therefore tabled an amendment, but I note others with lower penalties. I've made provision for the highest penalty, the one for an officer. I therefore believe it is absurd to maintain that penalty which is not consistent with the system. I tabled amendment 7.19, having no doubt that the majority in preparing the opinion in the Committee on Justice meant the need and importance of specifying, after the words "the household" in question, that each of the behaviors, referred to in paragraph 5, would legitimize the decline from the income of citizenship, and that it was not necessary for all of them to resort. This amendment is nothing more than the concrete translation of the interpretative question raised by the majority of the Commission. If that interpretative doubt arose and appears in the Commission's opinion, it would be abnormal for the Senate to leave that interpretative doubt without correcting it or intervening. The other four amendments speak on a very specific issue. Why do we introduce citizenship income? Based on what principles? I do not share the text of the decree-law and what is written in it, but I have only shared one thing: it is based on the relationship of trust and on the guarantee that whoever wants the income of citizenship will abide by certain behaviors. The sanctions provide for a series of repeated violations to lead to the withdrawal of citizenship income, which is quite insane, because it means that that relationship of trust is the foundation of the benefit. Once it is right that you forgive yourself, but for the other twenty you go beyond the forgiveness that minors get in the criminal process. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u269	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u270	Mr President, I welcome Amendments 7.11, 7.20, 7.31, 7.37, 7.22 (text 2), 7.44 (text 3) and 7.0.1 (text 2). I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u271	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u272	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1, which is identical to Amendment 7.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u273	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u274	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u275	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 7.1 on a provision which is nothing more than a further propaganda manifesto for the European elections. You need to demonstrate strong control and rigidity, even by imposing the sanction of imprisonment from two to six years for those who omit statements. We, with our amendment, call for the return of what is wrongly perceived, as well as the payment of penalties for tax evasion offences and their interests. I wonder why such a persecutory article? Let me give you an example, and I wonder if the government will give us the opportunity to undo this issue, since it has not been possible to untie it in the Commission. If a member of the family omits something to the applicant or if a member of the family puts in place elements that put in place the case of a crime, the criminal liability is always the applicant's. So the applicant should then prove, in the courtrooms, that he was not aware of it, triggering a vicious and crooked system. Therefore, I would ask the Government not to approve this amendment, but to dissolve this issue, if possible. I ask the government as a courtesy.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u276	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, identical to amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u277	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u278	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u279	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would simply like to say, in a few seconds, that this article and the amendments tabled to it are proof that this measure is also a great missed opportunity. If we are talking about instruments to combat poverty and marginality, we are talking about something that should be dear to everyone and that really is dear to everyone. We are talking about the possibility of redeeming entire pieces of Italian society and our communities, those who are in very difficult conditions. I say this with all due respect for those who have imagined this measure: it is disarming to note that, faced with the possibility that there are improvements and changes that go in the direction of making this measure more effective in relation to the people we want to raise from that condition, those who have imagined this measure (in this case the majority) close themselves curly and are absolutely waterproof to any kind of solicitation and suggestion. We say this all the more about this article and the sanctions provided for in relation to those who act in the direction of declaring a situation that does not respond to reality. It seems to us that this sanctioning system is totally disproportionate and that it is above all a demonstration of the fact that those who designed this measure simply wanted to protect themselves from that accusation, moreover in some cases, even founded according to which this measure, lowered into the real dimension, will come across the Italian vice for which made the law, found the deception. So, in order to recover from this accusation, what do the majority members and the government, who are implementing this instrument, do? They are simply intervening downstream, with a totally disproportionate and totally surreal sanctioning system compared to the rank of the crimes we are dealing with. We feel like giving a simple reassurance: if we intervene upstream, that is, if the instruments were effective in identifying the need and the places where it is generated, then we would no longer need to imagine such a disproportionate sanctioning system. If one intervenes where that need arises, where there is poverty, marginality and therefore on the paths of accompaniment and emancipation, there is no need to imagine a system of sanctions and penalties that seems totally disproportionate and above all has to do with a police state, with the idea of an ethical state that must tell you what to do and what not to do. If you want to accompany these people towards emancipation paths and if the ratio of the provision to our examination is this, then there can be emancipation without a dimension of freedom on the part of the people, who must be aware of their own position and how to redeem themselves. I insist, Mr President, on your behalf, that Article 7 is also proof of a great lost opportunity. We could have had a cross-party discussion with the political forces, but, alas, that is not the case. [[Applause from Senators Errani and Grasso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u281	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u282	Parent (PD). Mr President, I, like Senator Laforgia, believe that the article is absolutely disproportionate, but it says a lot about the installation of the measure. There is a punitive intent downstream, do not take responsibility for people who are in need, responsibility against punishment. Senator Catalfo, last night I took the trouble to go over your first draft law on citizenship income, of which I was rapporteur in the last legislature. There was no trace of this kind of punishment and of these sanctions; in my view, rightly so. The times are far away when we were discussing and confronting each other, then the majority and opposition, for example, on the electronic training booklet, now replaced by handcuffs. On the one hand, he is punished, on the other hand he is bestowed; do you know how many messages of women and mothers we have had these days? I believe that we, as I personally will, should take responsibility for collecting all this data and all these experiences. There are some mothers, maybe of children with disabilities, abandoned by husbands, who tell me that the husband maybe will take the financial benefit six or seven months and then give up, will not respond to the job proposal and therefore the six, seven months will be paid by the state. Another joke about women; there is an amendment, as my majority colleagues have mentioned, which excludes women from their obligations during the first three months of the child's life. Germany is mentioned; the German law speaks of choice among the members and when the child is four years old the woman, as often happens, did not even have the opportunity to be included in a job path. The punitive intent is against responsibility. This morning we were discussing the residence. On the other hand, the requirement for access to citizenship income is ten years. So you decide a priori who gets left behind. Yesterday someone spoke of the left; what is left of such a provision? I, proudly, as an exponent of the left, am against the provision. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u283	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.3, tabled by Senators Grasso and Laforgia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.7, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "Punishment Code". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.6 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.4, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, up to the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.5 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.8, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.9 tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.14 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 7.11, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 7.10 and 7.12. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.13, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u284	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u286	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak about the foreclosure of amendment 7.12, following the adoption of amendment 7.11, which you have just said. I disagree, because Amendment 7.11 only deals with certain specific offences, and in particular terrorism and criminal association, as well as an aggravated fraud hypothesis, while Amendment 7.12, signed by myself and Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, provides instead that the benefit will not be paid for all non-injury crimes for which a sentence of not less than two years' imprisonment is provided. So there can be no foreclosure, because the amendment I signed first provides for a much larger one than the one approved by the Commission's amendment. Mr President, I would therefore ask you to reconsider your decision on the foreclosure of amendment 7.12.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u287	The amendment in question was precluded because you should have submitted a sub-amendment to Amendment No 7.11 and not an amendment, as it has been done. This is therefore a question of legislative technique. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.15, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.16.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u288	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u289	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u290	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, this amendment calls for the revocation of paragraph 5 to be reversed. We believe that all those who are found in the conditions listed in paragraph 5 must be obliged to return what they have received, because otherwise, until then, what has been paid remains in their availability. It seems to us a minimum solution to ensure that there is a real deterrent effect on all deviant behaviors listed in paragraph 5. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate that I am sorry that I did not subjugate amendment 7.12, which would have been difficult to subjugate, since it was tabled before the Commission's amendment. In any case, I would like to point out that Amendment 7.11, which we adopted earlier, relates only to very serious crimes, such as terrorism, criminal association or mafia-style crime and so on. Today, with the rule that is coming out of this House, we are putting ourselves in a position to pay the income of citizenship to 99% of the prisoners also for serious crimes. I do not know whether we are aware of what we are approving, indeed, that we have just approved. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] They will take the income of citizenship the serial robber, who exploits prostitution or who is in jail for association aimed at drug dealing: in essence, according to the norm that we have just approved, will take the income of citizenship a sea of criminals. I may have mistaken the legislative technique, but the substance is unfortunately this. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u291	I call on Senator Balboni and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 7.16. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 7.17, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, until the words "single beneficiary" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 7.18 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7,700, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.19, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.20 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.21, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.701 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.23, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.24, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.25, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.26, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 7.27, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators, and amendment 7.30, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 7.702, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.702 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.703, tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.704.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u292	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u293	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u294	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking with a telegram to the House to indicate that we demand that there be at least a minimum requirement, namely the commitments provided for in the Social Inclusion Pact, relating to the frequency of the courses we are talking about. And it is the minimum requirement of seriousness, otherwise, if not, it falls from that benefit.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u295	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.704, tabled by Senator Barboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.28, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.29, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.31, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.32, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 7.33, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.34, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.46, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.35, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.36, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 7.37, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.38, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.39, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.40, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators, identical to amendments 7.41, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, and 7.42, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 7.43, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.43, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 7.22 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.39 is therefore incorporated. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.44 (text 3), tabled by Senator Romano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Laforgia, the Budget Committee has made the favourable opinion on Amendment 7.45 subject to a rewording. Do you accept the proposed reformulation to include the financial invariance clause? LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.45 (text 2), which incorporates a condition laid down by the 5th Commission, presented by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Matrisciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.0.0,700 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u296	Mr President, the heading in Article 8 is captivating because it refers to incentives for workers and businesses. On the other hand, the content is not as captivating, because in reality there are very few incentives, not to say anyone. In fact, to provide some contribution relief for entrepreneurs of some monthly nature, with the risk of paying a penalty in case of dismissal of citizens' income recipients, means not understanding the real needs of the business world, of those who have to create jobs and of those who can offer jobs. With the amendments we have tabled to Article 8, we therefore call for at least a few amendments to increase the monthly amounts for which relief can be granted and, above all, to extend this possibility also to the seasonal sector, to the world of tourism and agriculture, because the fixed time is not taken into account. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a truly resounding limitation that you have begun to introduce with the decree dignity: penalising the seasonal world by limiting recruitment to a fixed time, with the risks that entrepreneurs have to put on their shoulders for these recruitments, means not understanding the needs that are outside this Palace. I wonder, then, how can we think that we can start a business today with just over 4,000 euros. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I think we have come to the absurd, which is why there is no sense of what is needed outside of here to create jobs, because this measure does not create jobs. Let's start, above all, with unlocking the twenty-eight great works you have blocked, starting with the TAV, because that's what entrepreneurs want and that's what the world outside of here claims to be able to give the answers to what you ask. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u297	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u298	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 8,10, 8,15, 8,21, 8,900, 8,28 and 8.52. Amendment 8.39 is absorbed by the adoption of amendment 7.22 (text 2). Finally, I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u299	Mr President, on behalf of the Government, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u300	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.2 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 8.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.3, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 8.4, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, until the words "full and indefinite time." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.5 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "full-time" and "full-time." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 8.7 and 8.8 are therefore not included. Let us move on to amendment 8.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.9, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u301	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u302	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u303	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, this article has seriously opposed both logic and work, placing two poles which preclude companies from benefiting from contributions and potential recipients of citizenship income from intercepting work. However, the title of the article is "Incentives for the enterprise and for the worker." I'm trying to be clearer. Only open-ended and full-time contracts are considered by these measures. In Italy, there are probably agricultural jobs as well, and in the agricultural sector, 90% of work is done on fixed-term contracts. It may seem strange, then, but in Italy there are also activities related to the sector of culture, services, commerce and services. There are also seasonal jobs. It may seem strange to you, but in Italy there are also companies that sometimes, unfortunately, have peaks of work, for which they have to resort to fixed-term contracts. It may seem strange to you, but sometimes companies need to hire a part-time contract, which doesn't mean half the hours: part-time can mean thirty-nine hours and half or thirty-eight hours and not forty, because these things also happen in service organizations. And what is the extraordinary logical leap? You have made a fixed-term measure, because it is compatible with resources (which will no longer be there in a few months), and demanded by companies and citizens of citizenship income an indefinite and full-time job. This seems like a big logical leap. Mr Undersecretary, I know you won't even answer me about this, but at least in order to restore ex tunc the status quo ante in psychological terms, a minimum I have to vent. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mallegni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u304	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,700, tabled by Senator Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.10 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.11, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.12, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.13, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.14 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 8.15 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.16 and 8,701 are therefore excluded. We move on to amendment 817 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 817 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.18, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.19, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "made in the Minutes." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.20 are therefore excluded. [[Brusio.]] Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, you closed the vote before we could vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's going on? Mr ASTORRE (PD). Can the vote be repeated? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I do not repeat the vote, because there is no need to do so. I didn't understand what happened. Let us turn to amendment 8.21/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.21/100, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.21 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.22 is incorporated and Amendments 8,34, 8,35 and 8,36 are not included. Let us turn to amendment 8,702, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,702, tabled by Senator Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.23, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "self-employed." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 18.8. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.24, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8,900 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.25 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.26 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 827 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to point out that the Commission's amendment 8.28 was voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.29 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.30, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, identical to amendment 8.703, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.31 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.32, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "as referred to in paragraph 3" below. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.33 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 8,37 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.37, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, up to the words of this decree-law. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 8.38 are therefore not included. Amendment 8.40 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Let us turn to amendment 8,704, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8,704, tabled by Senator Laus. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 8.41, which is identical to Amendment 8.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.41, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators, identical to amendment 8.42, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.43, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.44 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.45 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 8.46, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.46 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.47 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.48 tabled by Senators D'Arienzo and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.49, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.49 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 8.52 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 8.50 and 8.51 are absorbed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.54, tabled by Senator De Poli, identical to amendment 8.55, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,56 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to Amendment 8,57, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 8.58 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 8,59, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.59 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 8,61, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.61, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 8,62, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8,62 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 8,63, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 8,63 tabled by Senator Margiotta. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.1, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.2 tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 8.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.3, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 8.0.4 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, until the words 'n'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 12.6 and 12.7. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.5, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.6, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u305	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 9,850 and 9,0.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u306	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u307	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.2, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendment 9.4, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 9.3 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9.5, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, until the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 9.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.7 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.8 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,850/100 to 9,850/102 are inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,850/104, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,850/105, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,850/108, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 9,850/106.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u308	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u310	Parent (PD). Mr President, on this amendment we do not understand why the rule on statistics has been changed, by eliminating the words "in individual form" and "in non-nominative form." We then always return to the same point as the intention of the decree-law to our examination: you cannot control people, you cannot control sensitive data. We therefore call for the reinstatement of the reference legislation by including in Amendment 9,850, point (a), after the words "also in individual form" of the words "but not in the name of "."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u311	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 9,850/106, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, until the words "but not" are mentioned. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9,850/107 are therefore excluded. Amendment 9,850/109 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9,850, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 9.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 9.9, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, until the words "Suppress paragraph 7". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 9.10. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 911 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.11, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.12, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 9.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.13, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.2 tabled by Senator Matrisciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 9,0700 and 9,0,701 are not included. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u312	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 10.3 and 10.6. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u313	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u314	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the words 'fight against poverty'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 10.2 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 10.3 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Amendment 10.4 which is identical to Amendment 10,700, on which the 5th Commission gave a non-obstacle opinion subject to a rewording. I would ask the presenters whether they accept this rewording. Toffanin (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. Mr Berardi (FI-BP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators, identical to amendment 10,700 (text 2), tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators, which transposes the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.5 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 10.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.8, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of amendment 10.9 on which the 5th Commission has given an opinion which is not an obstacle to reformulation. I would ask the presenters whether they accept this rewording. LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.9 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.0.700, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 11, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u315	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 11,800 and 11.11. I am against all the other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u316	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u317	We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 11.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u318	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u319	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u320	Parent (PD). Mr President, this amendment aims to restore the National Plan for the fight against poverty and social exclusion contained in the rules on income inclusion. Article 11 is a real mess, because you cut the income of inclusion into small pieces without a precise logic. Allow me, Mr President, to reiterate what we have always said in this House and in the Commission: poverty must be treated differently than other conditions. In fact, on the one hand, we remove the relocation allowance to the unemployed, leaving it only to the recipients of the citizenship income, while the relocation allowance goes to the recipients of the new employment social insurance (NASPI). You don't understand the ratio at all. At the same time, the National Plan for the fight against poverty is excluded from the income of inclusion, but only the latter - with regular updates - can treat poverty, as we have always said in this House: there will be someone who comes out of poverty and therefore needs a regularly updated national plan. I do not want my colleague, who rightly says that we have made too many quotations, but I believe that treating poverty is the highest form of charity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Poverty is not charity. Yesterday someone quoted Catholicism, now I too make a quote, just a small sentence of St Paul, who wrote wonderful things: Charity is patient, charity is kind; charity is not envious, it does not boast, it does not swell. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The concept of poverty as who should consume. It has been said that consumption will increase, but - as we pointed out in the Commission - what type of consumption will increase? The standardized ones of the poor people who will spend only on the discount? The other day a gentleman who donated his kidney to his wife and is in poverty because they lost their job told me that it would be so nice that he could give a ring to his wife. However, he wondered if he could be arrested if a receipt of a jewelry store appeared on his card. Here is the concept of poverty present in the decree-law at our examination. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments by Senators Airola and Romeo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u321	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, until the words 'Articles 5, 6, 7 and 7.' (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 11.2 to 11.4. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.5, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.6 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendments 11.7 tabled by Senator De Poli and other Senators, 11.8 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other Senators, 11.9 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.10 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 11,700 is therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 11.11 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.1, tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.0.2 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u322	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 12,850, 12,29 and 12,3100. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u323	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u324	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u325	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u326	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 12,850/119.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u327	The Presidency takes note of this. Let us move on to Amendment 12.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u328	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u329	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u330	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called decree also introduces the figure of the navigator, as has been said by my colleagues in the Group in general debate. The name evokes Star Trek and announces science fiction results, but in reality the figure is absolutely indefinite within the measure. As the Brothers of Italy Group, we have tabled nine specific amendments, signed by Mr Bertacco and our leader Ciriani, in order to ensure that this figure knows its own definition and does not lead to discrimination in terms of the recruitment of those who will play a role. To date, in fact, from reading the text we could only ask ourselves a question, namely who are the navigators and what they have to do, to say it with Professor Piero Angela of "Quark" and assume that they are unoccupied that they should find work for other unemployed people. Our amendments are therefore aimed at ensuring first and foremost that there is transparency and meritocracy in the choice of these figures. By entrusting ourselves to the common sense of the Assembly, which unfortunately from the opinions of the Government we do not already collect, we have foreseen that the choice will take place through notices that reward the merit and the titles and that, if there is a need of times, these figures are chosen among those who have already participated in a public competition, proving winners or suitable. Otherwise, it would be a colossal centralised clientele operation, which would enable ANPAL to make such choices, which is not clear from what should be directed. On this point too, therefore, Brothers of Italy offers an opportunity for clarity, so that the measure can work better, since we have severe doubts that this is the way. If you do not find the proposal on navigators to be accepted by this House, we do not think that Ulysses will be able to find Ithaca. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u331	I would point out, so that we can regulate our speeches in this debate, that the opposition groups have almost all run out of time. I think Brothers of Italy still have a minute. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.1, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin, until the words (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 12.2 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u332	Before voting on the next amendment, I would like to greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Statale (Maria Piazzoli) in Ranica, in the province of Bergamo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u333	Let us move on to Amendment 12.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u334	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u335	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u336	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking very quickly, as the time available to us is running out. Some aspects of this measure take on a grotesque trait, which would also make us smile if we were not talking about the lives of people and workers. The measure has as its ambition to take care of work and frailty and to get people out of their condition of difficulty. Then, however, paradoxically, he pretends that he does not want to occupy himself - on the contrary, he does not care at all - the staff who should set in motion the administrative and bureaucratic machinery necessary for the operation of what is planned. There is an issue that concerns the so-called navigators and those who preceded me touched it in some way. There is another matter which, if I may, Mr President - and I would also ask the House for some attention - concerns the staff of ANPAL Servizi. There is an absolutely incredible paradox - I insist - that almost has grotesque. At a time when work is being done and, therefore, to finalise the measure also to a dimension of stabilisation of careers, career paths and people's lives, we are not concerned about who should work on this implementation. The staff of ANPAL Servizi - incredibly - is not stabilized. We take care of everyone, except for those who should work on what we are dealing with. Only 20 stabilisations are envisaged, compared with a much higher number of employees. We are talking about 654 employees, who are thus left to their destiny and precariousness. We do not understand why they should not also be stabilised. I insist that we are talking not only about their careers and the possibility of getting them out of precariousness, but also about the possibility that the measure, as well as the majority and the government are imagining it, can be implemented more effectively. This can only be achieved if things work. And things work if the staff, the public administration, the staff and those who have to deal with all this are in a position to do so. At least tell us why you do not want to put your hand on this issue, on which many workers naturally expect an answer. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u337	I would like to say that the Mixed Group has also run out of time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u338	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u339	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u340	Parent (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the staff of ANPAL Servizi must be stabilized, at least so that we can start the machine you have set up and because there are some very important professionalisms to enhance. I take the opportunity to say that the same applies to the CAFs. CAFs have to accept applications, but you only allocate EUR 20 million for 2019. What do you imagine, that from 1 January 2020 the income of citizenship will end? [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u341	I also say that the Democratic Party Group has almost run out of time. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 12.4 which is identical to Amendment 12,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.4 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, identical to Amendment 12,700, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12,701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 12.6 and 12.7 are foreclosed by the rejection of amendment 8.0.4. Let us move on to amendment 12.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.8 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 12.9, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.9, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.10 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.11, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.13, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.12, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.14, which is essentially the same as Amendment 12.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u342	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u343	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u344	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, speaking of navigators, even on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, navigators will be the new army of precarious states. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In the meantime, we should start to stabilize, for example, the 650 people employed by ANPAL Servizi SpA, who have not yet been stabilised. The government said it was none of its business, because it would be assumptions made by previous governments and in different ways, but that cannot be said. With the amendments we have tabled, in particular with 12.15, we call for a redefined contractual system of professionalism which will be used and for the replacement of coordinated collaboration contracts at least the conclusion of fixed-term contracts, also in order to ensure the greatest form of coordination between the staff employed by the State and the Regions. I repeat that with this measure the current Government, which says it wants to eliminate the precarious, is in fact creating precarious on precarious and precarious state. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u345	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.14, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, essentially identical to amendment 12.15, tabled by Senator Gallone and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.16 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 12,850/100 to 12,850/109 are inadmissible. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/110, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12,850/111.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u346	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u347	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u348	CONZACTS (FI-BP). Mr President, I want to bring to this House the alarm that we heard in the Committee on Regional Affairs when we audited the representatives of the State-Regions Conference. In that place, in addition to what has already been said about the navigators, we have been told that there is a total organisational gap in the relationship between a conceptual level - in our opinion very questionable - of this standard and the level of application. You wonder why you want to hire surfers without competition, for a fixed time [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , without knowing who they will be formed by, who they will be coordinated, who they will refer to and do not draw, instead, from the rankings of the centers for the job and do not indicate new competitions for the centers for the job, so that the territory can reorganize. This is a very important point. These two amendments, which refer precisely to the report of the State-Regions Conference, focus on this point. Make bilateral agreements, give the regions funds so that employment centres can reorganise and hire people. Once again, it is also noted that the Regions under special statute are not understood and perhaps are not respected and I refer, in particular, to the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. There are implementing rules laid down by the Statutes of autonomy which confer primary competence in these matters on the Autonomous Provinces. From this point of view, it is not clear how the State claims to apply a completely questionable measure where they have legislated more, better and for some time other bodies in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and, of course, on the basis of institutions of autonomy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u349	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12,850/111, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/113, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendment 12,850/114, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/112, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/115, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12,850/116, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators, until the words "present paragraph" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 12,850/117 and 12,850/118 are therefore excluded. Amendment 12,850/119 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/120, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,850/121, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/122, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/123, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/124, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/129, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 12,850/130, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12,850/133, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, up to the word "relatively". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 12,850/131 to 12,850/134 are therefore excluded. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/125, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/128, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850/126, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12,850/127, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,850, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.20 is precluded. Let us move on to Amendment 12.18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 12.18, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, up to the words "200 million". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 12,17 and 12,46 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.19, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.21, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.22, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.23 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.24, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.25, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 12.26, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.27, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.28, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 12.29 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.30, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 12.31 (text 3) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.31 (text 3), tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12,3100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.32 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.33 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.34 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.35 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.36 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.37, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 12.39, which is identical to Amendments Nos 12.40, 12.41 and 12.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.39, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendments 12.40, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other Senators, 12.41, tabled by Senator De Poli and other Senators, and 12.42, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12.38, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.38 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 12,43, which is identical to Amendment 12,44, on which the 5th Commission gave a non-obstacle opinion subject to a rewording. I would ask the proposers if they would accept the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u350	Mr President, we welcome you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u351	We too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u352	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.43 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 12.44 (text 2), tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, which transposes the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.45, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 12.0.1 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 12.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.0.2 tabled by Senator Taricco and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u353	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u354	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u355	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I call for a ten to fifteen minute suspension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u356	I shall then briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 5.11 p.m. and resumed at 5.29 p.m.) We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u357	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 13.1. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u358	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u359	Amendment 13.1/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 13.1 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.2 tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.3 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.4 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 13.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.5 tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.6 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 13.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.7, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.1, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.0.3 (text 3) has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.5, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.7 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.8 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u360	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u361	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u362	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I shall speak briefly, even for the time now available. On the series of amendments that have just been voted on, I was frankly hoping that at least part of the Senate would vote in favour, given the fact that I am the exact mirror of the mandate programme that we brought to the attention of the voters on 4 March 2018. Well, this amendment, in this case, is an essential element for the economic recovery of the country. It proposes to remove the cost of the tax wedge from our employees' paychecks, giving them the opportunity to have a higher salary and allowing companies not to pay contributions for six years, up to thirty-five years. This is a maneuver that companies have been waiting for for years. It is a maneuver on which we had played a lot in the electoral campaign and on which we had engaged with all the economic categories, because today the companies ask us if they can hire. It is clear that the decree-law so-called dignity has cut off the legs to all possibilities of occupation; the results are already seen coming. This maneuver was obviously the exact opposite: the possibility of hiring for a fixed time and for an indefinite period and the opportunity to have for six years the exemption from the payment of taxes on the payrolls of our employees and employees. It is an essential measure for the revival of the country that goes exactly against the trend, like all the other amendments that we have introduced to Article 13, showing an opposite vision of Italy, of welfare, of the relationship with the enterprises, with the economy and the economic revival of the Country. For these reasons, I would ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 13.0.9. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u363	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.0.9 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 13.0.10, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators, up to the words 'is high'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 13.0.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.6 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u364	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u365	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u366	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to make a brief explanation of vote in favour of Amendment 13.0.2. Most flunked flat tax at 23 percent. There were even those who wanted it lower, we spoke of 23%, but on the point we keep the same opinion, while others, perhaps, have changed their mind. In the amendment we are about to vote on, there are policies for the family and the introduction of the family quotient. Today, the difference between a family which, on equal income, has or does not have children, translates into being in poverty or, in any case, having to count up to the single euro or cent, or being better because you do not have children. It is also surprising that there have been negative birth records for seven years. The government did a good thing by instituting the Minister for the Family but, after the establishment of the Ministry, the families saw nothing else. The tendency, therefore, is that our population decreases because of the Italians who go abroad because in Italy, also thanks to the provision in our examination, there are no job opportunities, and, at the same time, the birth rate is reduced because those who have children have exactly the same tax treatment as those who do not have them. This means that those who have children pay more taxes than if they do not have them, because they buy equipment for them, including famous car seats, and have no tax relief. Congratulations. Keep going. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u367	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.0.2, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.13 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.12 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u368	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u369	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u370	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly on Amendment 13.0.14. The Undersecretary intervened first on the disabled, the non-self-sufficient and the elderly. The amendment subtly indicated the increase in deductions for those who help people who are not self-sufficient at home. It is also part of the programme - I am monotonous to say the same things - and it reflects exactly a whole series of measures that we have tabled. I therefore believe that not approving a measure which gives the opportunity to benefit from deductions for personal assistance workers in cases of non-self-sufficiency is a criminal fact and, therefore, you will take full responsibility for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u371	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.0.14, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 13.0.4 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u372	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto scuola comprensivo (Castel di Lama 1) in Castel di Lama, in the province of Ascoli Piceno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u373	We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u374	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 14,27, 14,800, 14,0.850, 14.0,851 and the G14,101 agenda, provided that the words: "engaged by the Government" are replaced by the words: "commited by the Government to consider whether it should be done." I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u375	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. In relation to amendment 14.0.850, it is specified that the letter a) of paragraph 1, of article 14-a, brings changes to the fifth period and not already to the third period of paragraph 5, of article 3 of decree-law n. 90 of 2014. It is therefore a mere drafting error.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u376	Let us move on to Amendment 14.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Rossomando and other senators, to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 14.2 and 14.3 are therefore not included. Let us move on to Amendment 14.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.4 tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u377	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u378	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u379	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to make a brief explanation of vote in favour of amendment 14.5 to say that this is the last call for the forces of the majority. If they really want to overcome the Fornero reform, they must vote for this amendment, because it is the only one that contains a structural reform, namely a genuine reform of the pension advance rules of our system, and not the fiction of a three-year window which - as we have already said in the debate - will leave only deep iniquities between generations, between men and women and between categories of workers in this country. Tomorrow, if you vote on the text as it is, with seven years of delay and not even being in the midst of a financial crisis - hoping that for now you will not be there - you will also vote on a Fornero reform, because in fact, with the decree-law you are about to approve, nothing changes compared to the rules of calculation and exit from retirement, except the three-year lottery for the lucky few who will come back in that window. With our reform, however, today we would like to hold together social justice, towards people who are in difficulty, do heavy jobs, take care of disabled family members or are unemployed, but have not yet reached the channels of access to either old-age or early retirement. We therefore propose a comprehensive reform that puts women at the centre, extending the women's option until 2022, and then arriving at a structural channel of outgoing flexibility, to recognize the care work of the workers, giving contributory benefits to those who have children and have provided care jobs to the family. We put young people at the centre, with a contributory pension guaranteeing the adequacy of pensions for those in the contributory system but, if they have discontinuous careers and low incomes, they have very low hopes and expectations. We put out the flexibility for those who are part of the contributory system and are already unlucky because it has a more disadvantaged calculation system, since now there is flexibility in the contributory system, but it is only for rich people: we want to remove the stakes that now exist, in order to allow young people to retire first, with adequate pensions. Disadvantaged categories, young people and women: this was the structural reform that we would have liked to see and that we do not see. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u380	The measure is certainly important and, therefore, I understand that everyone wants to speak. I invite you, however, at least to hold the time, because they have already expired abundantly for all the opposition groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u381	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u382	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u383	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we understand everything, but there is a question as to why this amendment has never been tabled in recent years, when you were in the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group. Ironic applause from Senator Laus.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u384	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.6 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 14.7, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.8 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.9 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.10 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.10 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators, until the words "two years of seniority" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 14.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.12, tabled by Senator Nencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.13, tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.14, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14,700, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.16, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.17, tabled by Senator Garavini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.18 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 14.19, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.19, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 14.20, identical to Amendments 14.21 and 14.701 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.20 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to Amendments 14.21, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, and 14,701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 14.22, identical to Amendments 14.23 and 14.702, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.22, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to Amendments 14.23, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, and 14.702, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 14.24, which is identical to Amendments 14,703 and 14,25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.24, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, identical to Amendments 14.703, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators, and 14.25, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.26, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 14.27, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14,800/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,800/100, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 14,800/101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u385	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u386	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u387	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I will be quick. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'd say very quick, Senator Malpezzi. MALPEZZI (PD). I'm very worried, for a simple reason. We have defined 100 as a sort of lottery, but for the school it is even worse, because - you have all read it - thanks to your budget law, which has not strengthened the secretariats, the schools will not be put in a position to examine the so-called career reconstructions. As a result, many teachers who are asking the question and will have the necessary qualifications, will not be able to enjoy this initiative and, even if it were, through who knows what magic. If you were able to run those secretariats and rebuild your career, the result, since you blocked all the competitions, would be that - next September - of not having teachers in the chair able to respond to emergencies in a number undoubtedly high. Two things you had to do and didn't do: strengthen the secretariats and start the competition season. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u388	Senator Malpezzi, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u389	MALPEZZI (PD). You tell your parents in September when the teachers aren't there. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u390	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,800/101, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 14,800/102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u391	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u392	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u393	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, this amendment, which I signed with Senator Mallegni, proposes to allocate resources to the armed forces, the police forces, the fire department. I would like to recall this today because the Government, which has decided in words to make appropriations and measures, has not actually done so. When discussing the security decree, we noted that, alongside just rules on the legal level, resources were lacking. We say this all the more so today that the State Secretary for Defence Tofalo has networked images from a film dedicated to Hitler with a failed satirical purpose, shamefully offending the bodies representing the Armed Forces, the Central Military Representative Council (Cocer). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A short time ago the bodies representing the Armed Forces asked for the resignation of the Undersecretary Tofalo who - I repeat - was the author of a shameful offense against them. For those who wear uniforms we ask, not the offenses of Tofalo, but the government money that has not been there. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So approve this amendment and drive out Tofalo, who put Hitler on Facebook to offend the staff of all the Armed Forces, women and men who just now - it is a resounding case, which led the Cocer to meet - have asked Minister Thirty to withdraw the delegation to the Undersecretary, although I believe it was already a mistake to give it to him. The amendment calls for money, while the government sows insults. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u394	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,800/102, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,800/103, tabled by Senator Parente. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 14,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u395	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u396	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u397	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out to the House that with this amendment - and I must say in writing with a great deal of detail - all we do is encourage the recruitment of the staff of the judicial offices in order to cope with the findings that there will be 100. It is a fine purpose, of course, and that is fine; it is a pity that one has only thought of the Ministry of Justice and not of other Ministries, such as the Ministry of Health. It is a great problem because, unfortunately, this cannot have a reflection on the correct delivery of the essential levels of assistance and not even on the waiting lists that have just been sanctioned in agreement with the Regions. The National Federation of Nursing Professional Orders (FNOPI) reminds us that 39,000 nurses will be missing, as well as 53,000 already missing and 25,000 health managers, along with doctors. How do we deal with this problem? The majority have always said that it would solve it: I remember that there is still 1.4 on the staff expenditure ceiling. An amendment to the simplification decree had been tabled, which was rejected and turned into an agenda. We still have no news of what will be done. We want the National Health System to survive, but without the health professions at work we don't know how to do it. Maybe you had to think about it first. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u398	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 14.28 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.28 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators, up to the words "complex." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 14.0.12, 14.0.4 and 15.0.1. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 14.29, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.29, tabled by Senators Misiani and Rossomando. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.30, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.30, tabled by Senators Misiani and Rossomando. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.31, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.31, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 14.32, which is identical to amendment 14.704, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.32, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to Amendment 14,704, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 14.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 14.33, tabled by Senator Zaffini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). A request for reformulation has been made on the agenda for Mr G14.101. I ask the presenters if they accept it. PUGLIA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G14.101 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/101, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/102, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/103, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/104, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, up to the words "comma 7". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/105 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/106, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/107, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/107, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/108, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/109, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/110, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/111, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 14.0.850 (correct text) /112 and 14.0.850 (correct text) /113 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/114, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/115, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/115, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/116, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text) 117, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text) 117, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/118, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/118, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/119, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/119, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/120, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/120, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/121, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/121, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/122, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/122, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/123, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/123, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/124, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/124, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, up to the word "authorized." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 14.0.850 (correct text)/125 and 14.0.850 (correct text)/126 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/127, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/128, identical to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/129, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/128, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/129, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 140.850 (correct text)/130 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/131, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/132, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/133, identical to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/134, on which the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/133, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/134, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.850 (correct text)/135, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text)/135, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.850 (correct text), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 14.0.1, 14.0.7, 14.0.8, 14.0.9 and 14.0.700 are not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/100, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators, identical to amendment 14.0.851/101, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/102, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment No 14.0.851/103, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/103, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/104, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/105, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851/106, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 14.0.851/107 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.851, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 14.0.5, 14.0.6 and 14.0.701 are excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.0.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u399	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u400	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u401	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I know that we have run out of time and, therefore, I will be truly telegraphic. Several members of the Government in the Commission also said that the ninth safeguard clause, that of the exodus, would be answered, even in other measures: that is what we were told. Again, here too, no answer. It is a serious fact, because exodus are among the workers who have been most penalized because of the choices of the Government. So you make a wrong, unjust and unjust choice. Just one last thing I want to tell you: it takes a minimum of truth. You have opened a temporary window and, for those workers who enter, there will be an answer. But the Fornero remains, unfortunately, as such and you did not intervene on that. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u402	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.0.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendments 14.0.12 and 14.0.4 are precluded by the rejection of Amendment 14.28 (text 2). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 14.0.10 tabled by Senator Serafini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 14.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.0.11, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda relating to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u403	Mr President, I would like to remind you that Amendment 15.2 has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u404	Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 15.03, 15.0.4 and 15.0.5. As a Group we subscribe to the agenda G15.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u405	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u406	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of the G15.2 agenda. On the remaining amendments, the opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u407	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u408	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u409	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u410	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I have now noticed that the Forza Italia Group abstained in the vote on Amendment No 14.0.10, signed by Senator Serafini; instead, the Group wanted to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u411	We take note of that. Let us move on to Amendment 15.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u412	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u413	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u414	PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Mr President, this is a rule that is actually being extended from year to year in a ridiculous way, becoming almost a structural intervention. We do not understand why we must always postpone this application from year to year. It is a rule which, once again, undermines women born before 1960, a weak age group because these people have difficulty relocating to the world of work which excludes - as we all know - people over thirty-five. I have asked Members to vote in favour of this rule in order to make structural a precariousness that has lasted for years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u415	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G15.2 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 15.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to point out the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 15.3 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "n." 205. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 15.4 and 15.6. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 15.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.5 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 15.7 which is identical to Amendments 15.8 and 15.700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.7 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendments 15.8, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, and 15.700, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 15.9, which is identical to Amendments Nos 15.10 and 15.701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.9, tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to Amendments 15.10 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, and 15.701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Amendment 15.0.1 is precluded by the rejection of Amendment 14.28 (text 2). Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.0.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.0.3 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 15.0,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u416	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u417	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u418	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, the amendment is, in my opinion, essential because it speaks exclusively of quarry workers. I understand that it is a problem that probably concerns only parts of territory, but they are significant parts. The request was to equate the so-called worker with that of the quota worker. In essence, we are talking about those who work in the stone sector: this is an extremely important and significant issue, linked to weights, transport and manual skills. It is therefore asked to equate both professions and to consider both trades as usurers. In my opinion it is a sign of civilisation and I hope that all my colleagues will be able to agree to a serious proposal that comes from the world of work, from the trade union world and also from the companies that show, for their collaborators, an important sign of closeness to such a difficult job. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u419	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.0.700, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 15.0.4 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u420	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u421	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u422	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 150.5 has been withdrawn before, but the intention was to ask for it to be changed to the agenda. As this is the time when we should have voted on it, I was wondering if it would be possible to turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u423	So there was a mistake. I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda G15.0.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u424	Mr President, I am in favour of the G15.0.5 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u425	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u426	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G15.0.5 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 15.0.701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u427	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u428	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u429	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, as mentioned above, the amendment is linked to the travelling staff of our trains, in particular in the driver's function, so there is no possibility of retiring at 100. Therefore, our drivers who are sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight years of contributions (which makes 100) with the current rule, approved by this decree, will not retire: it is a serious mistake and is probably a recast. I hope so. Today we could also remedy and allow traveling staff, the drivers of our railways, to retire at 100, otherwise the rule is discriminatory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u430	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.0.701, tabled by Senator Mallegni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.18 (text 2), which was previously put aside, tabled by Senator Matrisciano and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u431	Mr President, these are the articles which concern women's option. We call, on the one hand, for the possibility of extending the option and, on the other hand, the elimination of the hateful discrimination and inequality between self-employed women and women who are employed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u432	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u433	Mr President, I am in favour of the G16,100 and G16,101 agendas. I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u434	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u435	Let us move on to amendment 16.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 16.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of Amendment 16.2 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "with the following words." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 16.5 to 16.3 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 16.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 16.6 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.7, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16.8, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.9 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment No 16,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the request has been made, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment No 16,700, tabled by Senators Serafini and Carbone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment No 16.10 which is identical to Amendments Nos 16.11 and 16.701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.10 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to Amendments 16.11 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, and 16.701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators (continued the vote). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G16,100 and G16,101 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 16.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 16.0.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 17, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u436	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u437	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u438	Let us move on to amendment 17.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.0.2, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u439	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 18.0.1. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u440	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u441	Let us move on to Amendment 18.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u442	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u443	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u444	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, Amendment 18.3 takes the logic of strengthening the existing instruments that give specific answers to the problems that our country is currently experiencing; the income of inclusion for poverty, the social EPA for the subject of pensions, the new social employment insurance (NASPI) for unemployment. The amendment addresses the issue of the social EPA by extending the intervention also to categories of self-employed, trade and crafts. The Social EPA intervenes in situations of real drama: unemployed as a result of dismissal, reduced working capacity, disability within families or weary jobs. We believe that from this point of view it would have been much more useful to use the resources of the measure to give timely answers to the real fragility, instead of intervening with a hybrid instrument that, as emerged from the hearings, risks leaving aside the groups most in difficulty at this time in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u445	I address the greetings of the Assembly to the students of the State Professional Institute "Federico II" in Enna. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u446	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.3 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 18.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.2 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.4 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.5, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 18.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.7 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). Toffanin (FI-BP). I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Toffanin, I'm sorry, but we've already voted. If we hadn't voted, I would have gladly given you the floor. If you book in time, we will give you the floor on another amendment. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u447	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u448	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u449	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to talk about my amending proposal in favour of caregivers and family care. This is an issue that we are debating in the Commission, because we want to draw up a legal text, but in the meantime, as long as the law that recognizes attention to these figures is not ready, I believe that this is the most appropriate measure to give a signal. There is already a definition of the caregiver figure in the 2017 budget law and from there we could have intervened, paying attention. In this case, the amendment that has just been rejected concerned the social EPA for caregivers, but there were also other amending proposals, within the measure, for which no resources would have been needed, but which would have constituted a signal, to take into account very important figures, which by their actions facilitate not only families but also the State. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u450	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.6 tabled by Senator Nencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 18.8 is precluded by the rejection of the first part of amendment 8.23. Let us move on to Amendment 18.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.9 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.10 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 18.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.11 tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.12, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, essentially identical to amendment 18.15, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.13, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators, which is essentially identical to amendment 18.16, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B) Let us turn to Amendment 18.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 18.14, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 18.0.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 18.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.2 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 18.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 18.0.3, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 19 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u451	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u452	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u453	Let us move on to amendment 19.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Excuse me, Amendment 19.2 being identical, should have been voted together with Amendment 19.1. I shall therefore cancel the vote. We move on to amendment 19.1, which is identical to amendment 19.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 19.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 19.3 which is identical to amendment 19.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendment 19.4 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.0.1, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 20, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u454	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 20.5 and 20.800.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u455	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u456	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u457	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u458	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, hopefully, I shall withdraw Amendments 20.8, 20.700 and 20.0.700.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u459	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u460	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u461	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw Amendments 20.22 and 20.23.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u462	We take note of that. Let us move on to amendment 20.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 20.2 tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin, until the words '31 December 1995'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 20.3 are therefore excluded. Amendment 20,700 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.4 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 20.5 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 20,800/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,800/100, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20,800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 20.6 which is identical to Amendments 20,701 and 20,28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.6 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, identical to amendments 20.701 tabled by Senator Berardi and other senators, and 20.28 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.7 tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 20.8 and 20.9 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 20.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.10 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.12, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 20.13 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u463	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u464	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u465	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to ask a question to the representatives of the Government, given that the constitutional legitimacy of the 45-year term in paragraph 6 of Article 20 of the measure has been discussed within the Commission. The question is as follows. What solution have you found and what interpretation has allowed you to overcome the doubt of constitutionality, which arose in the Government and not in us?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u466	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.11, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.14, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 20.15, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.15, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 20.16 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani, until the words "with the following text." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 20.17 to 20.21 are therefore excluded. Amendments 20.22 and 20.23 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 20.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.24, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.25, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.25, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 20.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution, which is identical to Amendment 20.27. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.26, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, identical to Amendment 20.27, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u467	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u468	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u469	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to withdraw the G20.100 agenda. We are awaiting the opinion of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government on the G20.101 agenda, which is crucial because it concerns cyclical part-time relations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u470	The Presidency takes note of this. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the G20.101 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u471	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u472	Mr President, the Government accepts the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u473	Having been accepted by the Government, the G20.101 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 20.0.1, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 20.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 20.0, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 20.0.700 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u474	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of amendment 21.1, while it is against amendment 21.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u475	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u476	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 21.1, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 21.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 21.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 22 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u477	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of amendment 22.8, while it is against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u478	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u479	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 22.2 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.4 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, identical to amendment 22.5 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.6 tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u480	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u481	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u482	Toffanin (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to say that the Forza Italia Group wanted to vote in favour of Amendments 22.1 and 22.2 rather than abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u483	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 22.8 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 23 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u484	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 23.5 (text 3), 23.6 and 23.11 and 23.21. I am against the remaining amendments and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u485	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, with the exception of amendment 23.5 (text 3), for which we are asking for provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u486	What is the reason why the provision is requested? A reformulation? COMINARDI, State Secretary for Labour and Social Policy. Yes, for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u487	Amendment 23.5 (text 3) is therefore set aside. Let us move on to amendment 23.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.1, tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.2 tabled by Senators Floris and Toffanin. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.3 tabled by Senator De Poli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.4 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.5 (text 3) has been put aside. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 23.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.7 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Following the provision of amendment 23.5 (text 3), we must also put aside Amendments 23.8, 23.9 and 23.10, as well as Amendments 24.1 and 24.2. We now come to the examination of amendment 23.11, on which the 5th Commission has given an opinion which is not an obstacle to reformulation. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they accept the rewording. Ms Nisini, rapporteur. Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 23.11 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.12 tabled by Senators Iannone and Bertacco, identical to amendment 23.700, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.13, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.13 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 23.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.14, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 23.16, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 23.18 and 23.15 are therefore not included. We move on to amendment 23.19, identical to amendment 23.701, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.19, tabled by Senators Papatheu and Rossi, identical to amendment 23.701, tabled by Senator Berardi and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 23.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 23.20, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of amendment 23.21, on which the 5th Commission has given an opinion which is not an obstacle to reformulation. I would ask the rapporteurs whether they accept the rewording to include the financial invariance clause.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u488	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u489	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 23.21 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which incorporates the conditions laid down by the 5th Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 23.22, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 23.22, tabled by Senator Parente. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Parente, the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government have given an opinion against the agenda for G23.100. Are you insisting on the vote? Parent (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G23.100, presented by Senator Parente. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 24 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u490	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 24.8 and against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u491	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u492	The rapporteur, on amendment 24.8 of the Commission, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u493	I withdraw the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u494	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u495	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u496	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we accept Amendment No 24.8 which has just been withdrawn from the rapporteur. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u497	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendments 24.1 and 24.2 have been laid down. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). ( [[Brusio).]] Please, we have come to a certain hour by examining more than 500 amendments and this noise is really impossible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u498	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u499	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u500	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, we are trying to maintain an attitude of fairness. We have been here in this House, we have voted and we have brought our point of view. The Commission has also approved Amendment No 24.8 with our vote. We therefore voted in favour of this proposal. The Presidency said that there was no coverage on the matter and that the 5th Commission therefore gave an opinion contrary to amendment 24.8. We have therefore decided to make this amendment ours, and the League's Parent Company, addressing myself, said that even his son does not do these things in kindergarten. Well, keep these remarks to yourself! We do our job! [[Ironic comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u501	Senator Mallegni, your Group has been granted this amendment. There's no problem, of any kind. We do not give rise to any controversy about an issue that has already been taken over by the Presidency. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.4 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 24.5 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 24.5 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators, up to the words "76,000". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 24.6 to 24.700 are therefore not included. Amendment 24.8 was withdrawn by the rapporteur and was subsequently adopted by Senator Malan and the other Senators of the Forza Italia Group. The rapporteur gave a favourable opinion on this amendment, but there is the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. I would ask the rapporteur if she would support this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u502	Mr President, we are asking, if possible, to be able to set aside it in order to carry out a verification. We had marked everything and there was a favourable opinion in the Commission. We would, therefore, like to make a check.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u503	I therefore have the provision of amendment 24.8 so that we can check with the Budget Commission to see whether or not there is financial cover. Let us move on to Amendment No 24.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u504	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u505	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u506	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with this amendment we call for the introduction of the minimum hourly wage. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group.]] Smile! Coworkers from Movimento 5 Stars smile! Citizenship income, without the minimum wage, creates distortions: 3 million and more workers will receive less than 780 euros of citizenship income. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] Bravo, Bravo! One third of Italian workers receive less than 800 euros. With our amendment we call for the introduction of the minimum hourly wage for an amount of EUR 9 per hour. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] [[Ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] [[Senator Laus takes a picture with his cell phone. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u507	Please, we're voting! AIROLA (M5S). Laus, you're gonna burn in hell! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can't photograph it; you can't photograph it in the courtroom! If you are tired, I close the session because it is not possible to continue in this way. We're all tired because we work from this morning. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.0.1, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 25 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u508	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 25.5, 25.0.3 (text 2) and 25.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u509	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u510	Amendment 25.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.2 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.3 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 25.5 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25.6 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 25.7 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25.7 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "welfare". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 25.8 and 25.9. are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 25.10, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "the latter". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 25.11. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 25.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u511	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u512	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u513	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to withdraw the amendment and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u514	I would ask the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u515	Mr. President, I'm going back to the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u516	Mr President, I am in favour of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u517	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G25.0.1 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 25.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.0.2 tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 25.0.3 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 25.0.4/1 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 25.0.4 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 26 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u518	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 26,0.852, 26,0.800, 26,0.801, 26,0.850 and 26,0.851. I am opposed to the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u519	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I would also like to point out another formal error regarding the Government's amendment 26.850: in paragraph 4, relating to charges, there is a mere material error with double repetition of the year 2023. Therefore, it is clear that the second reference to 2023 is to be understood as "year 2024".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u520	Let us move on to Amendment 26.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.2 tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. [[The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, we were looking at the rewording with the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u521	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u522	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u523	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I understand that there may also be mistakes. Already the Undersecretary speaks slowly and we have had difficulty listening. I would ask whether there is the correct text of the amendment and the time to examine it. If it bothers you, I understand that there may be commitments, but, excuse me, allow us...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u524	I don't have any sense of annoyance, I think. I had declared the vote on Amendment 26.2 open. What does this have to do with anything? Mr Marcucci (PD). And we asked to look at the amendment that the government asked to correct. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Who did you ask? Certainly not to me. Mr Marcucci (PD). I asked you, too, and the offices. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he didn't ask me. Then use the microphone, because I can't have radar ears. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, it is also difficult to use the microphone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If you talk to the government, I don't have radar ears. Do you understand? [[Applause from Senator Lanzi]] Mr Marcucci (PD). What have you got to applaud? You're gonna be okay. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Please. So we're on Amendment 26.2, okay? If someone didn't vote, vote. [[Comments from PD and M5S Groups.]] So, I'll cancel the voting procedure. I refer again to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 26.2 tabled by Senators Toffanin and Floris. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 26.0.852/100 is inadmissible. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.852 tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 26.0.800.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u525	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u526	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u527	BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this amendment, which is the result of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Time! [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u528	Are we all photographing each other here? You can't photograph in the Chamber. So, please don't use your cell phones as a photo device, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u529	Please, Senator Bellanova. BELLANOVA (PD). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of this amendment by the Government, which anticipates payment of the Integration Fund for Termini Imerese workers. Our vote in favour is due to the fact that this amendment is the result of the battle of the workers and the long garrison that mayors, starting from the mayor of Termini Imerese, had to do before the Ministry of Economic Development. We are voting in favour of this amendment today, but we want to invite the Government and Minister Di Maio, Minister for Labour and Economic Development, to quickly convene the table of confrontation with the Region, with local authorities, with Blutec, Invitalia and FCA, because we must give these workers the certainty of the continuity of the realization of the industrial plan and the employment relationship, since we are discussing citizenship income. You see, President, through you I want to tell the Government that even in the Mezzogiorno the workers and workers of Termini Imerese ask for work because through it they affirm their dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u530	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u531	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u532	RUSSO (M5S). Mr President, I would also like to say that we will vote in favour of Amendment 26.0.800. My colleague perhaps does not know that Minister Luigi Di Maio went to Termini Imerese to meet all the mayors of the college and all the trade union acronyms and that this resolution was already planned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u533	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.800, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 26,0.801/100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26,0.801/100, tabled by Senator Mallegni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.801 tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.850 (correct text), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.851/100, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.851 tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 26.0.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 26.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 26.0.3, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, until the words "pensionisti" of war. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments from 26.0.4 to 26.0.6 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26.0.7, tabled by Senators Nannicini and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 26.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 26.0.8, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 27 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u534	Mr President, in the past few days, during a hearing on the cultural bonus in the 7th Commission, I realized that newcomers with 500 euros of the cultural bonus can do anything except buy or sign up for a subscription to an online or paper newspaper. It is obviously a lack of attention and I certainly do not think it is a choice on the part of anyone, which this amendment aims to fill, giving the young people the opportunity to spend part of those 500 euros also, if they wish, to subscribe to a newspaper. This measure has no cost to the State and therefore I assume that, as in the Commission, everyone in this House agrees with this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u535	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u536	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment No 27.4 and I turn to the Government on Amendment No 27.0.700. The remaining amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u537	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On Amendment 27,0.700, on which the rapporteur had returned to the Government, the opinion is against. MALPEZZI (PD). But why?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u538	Let us move on to amendment 27.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 27.1, tabled by Senator Bertacco, up to 10 per cent. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 27.2 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 27.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 27.3 tabled by Senator Vitali. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 27.4 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Durnwalder and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 27.0.2, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Durnwalder and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 27.0.1, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 27.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 28.0.3 tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 27,0 700.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u539	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u540	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u541	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am shocked by the opinion of the representative of the Government and I cannot understand what the logic can be. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If this is a formal and contextual issue, this calls for revenge, because you have tabled amendments to spurious texts and it would certainly not be the first time that an amendment concerning another issue ends up in a different measure of sign. So, honestly, I can't understand the reason for the negative opinion, except to think that then it's true that you're going against the newspapers. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] However, such a position is not justifiable, because in this case it is not public money and it is nothing. It is obviously a diseducational thing about the eighteen-year-olds, to whom you have just said, implicitly, that reading is not useful, that reading a newspaper is not useful for individual growth and society. Take on your responsibility and be ashamed. [[Applause from FI-BP and PD groups and Senators Casini, Errani and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u542	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u543	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u544	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, obviously the many votes make the memory of Senator Cangini fallacious: as a member of the Committee on Culture, I would like to remind him that a series of hearings is taking place precisely in the area of cultural bonuses, during which numerous requests have emerged, not only the one relating to its extension to newspapers, magazines and periodicals. Senator Cangini knows very well that all the members of the Committee on Culture agree on the opportunity to extend it - there is not one of them who is not aware of it - and Minister Bonisoli, as he has already said on more than one occasion, has the same awareness. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] We are therefore not making any easy controversies, thinking that in this House we should forget what has already been widely stated by Mr Bonisoli. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the PD Group.]] I am also surprised that the controversy comes from the PD, because we would have to ask ourselves then why Minister Franceschini did not first think about extending the cultural bonus to newspapers, publishing and audiovisual. [[Applause from the M5S Group. He lives protests from the PD Group.]] Having said that, Mr President, I come back to the heart of the amendment, apologizing for the digression. It is known that there is a general revision of the criteria of the cultural bonus, with a view to its expansion, and no one wants to take further resources away from the newspapers, as those who listen to us know. [[Comments and lively protests from the PD Group.]] However, we believe that in this context of organic review and broadening the criteria and parameters for the grant of the cultural bonus, this speech is part of a broader and more organic one. Nobody, therefore, wants to shake off the responsibility of promoting the reading of newspapers, but it seems to us that everything must take place in a more homogeneous speech, which we are responsible for carrying forward as a Commission, in synergy with MIBAC and Minister Bonisoli. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u545	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u546	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u547	[[Repented comments from Senator Malpezzi at the address of Senator Montevecchi]] Montevecchi (M5S). What are you talking about? Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That's enough! Senator Montevecchi, you're done talking. Sit down. Please, Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, thank you for the floor and I believe that the subject is wider than that of Senator Montevecchi. After reading the amendment, I have kindly asked my colleague, the first signatory, to be able to sign it and I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour for a very simple reason. There is a very strong crisis in publishing and newspapers have difficulties: I therefore believe that young people should be educated to read newspapers and, above all, to freedom. There have been parties such as the Movimento 5 Stars and the League that obviously do not have clear this aspect, or rather, they have very clear, but do not adhere to the concept. We are for freedom, for the newspapers and to support this initiative that costs nothing. The rapporteur has rightly returned to the government and the government, with a clear choice, has declared itself opposed to including the opportunity for 18-year-olds to spend this money on daily newspapers that is given to them for training. I think that is inconceivable and completely out of place. We are proud of the measure that set up the 500 euro bonus, wanted by the central-left government to lead the Democratic Party, and we felt relieved when the current Minister decided to keep it, appreciating his decision. It is incomprehensible how the majority and above all the government are against newspapers and freedom of the press, perhaps because they want an ignorant youth and unable to decide, or to be critical and mature, all functions to which the free press can serve and be very useful. [[Comments of Senator Marco Pellegrini.]] I think the government needs to reconsider. This is an important measure in favour of newspapers and freedom. [[Comments from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] The Democratic Party will vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause from the PD Group]] AIROLA (M5S). You don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u548	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u549	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u550	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to note incidentally that I was surprised by this passionate peroration for freedom of debate and also by the thesis, supported in this House, that the Italian editorial landscape would reflect a wide and varied complexity of opinions. I come from a debate in which - in fact - the positions of the media are absolutely flattened. I didn't find this opening to heterodox positions. [[Comments from the PD Group]] This surprised me, I greet you as a positive novelty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments and ironic applause from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone says what they want.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u551	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u552	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u553	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am speaking very quickly, partly because I agree with Senator Marcucci's remarks and I do not repeat them. I ask Senator Cangini to be able to sign his amendment, which I agree with. The Undersecretary of Crimes, who is also responsible for this sector, is present in this Chamber, and therefore, in a spirit of complete constructiveness, since the problem objectively exists, I would ask him if he could tell us anything about it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u554	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u555	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u556	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I would like to say to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that they may not have understood the spirit of this amendment, which helps you very much in finding work. We all know - who is an entrepreneur and who is not - that it is very difficult for employment centres to find work. Buying newspapers would help you a lot, because in all newspapers there are job offers and you could give up surfers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You could give up a lot of things, because it would be enough to read job offers in the newspapers. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u557	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u558	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u559	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I am pleased to have been called a liar, and I cannot accept that of course. Senator Montevecchi knows exactly how things went. I said at the beginning of my first speech that we all agreed in the Commission. So, I don't see what I can be accused of. That this provision has been rejected by the Government is a fact. What more appropriate context than a Parliamentary Assembly to remedy what - evidently - was a mistake of the past? We have all noticed this in the Commission and we have all agreed that this error should be dealt with quickly. This is the first measure with which we all had the opportunity to remedy this error: Renzi Government's error, departing; your mistake, that you have not raised the problem until today; my mistake too, that only two weeks ago I learned this thing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I took it for granted that the neodioceses, among the many things they do with those 500 euros (such as, for example, going to a rock concert), could also buy a subscription to a newspaper. It is a mistake for which everyone - who is more, who is less - is responsible. This is a small mistake, a negligence, an inattention. Do we want to make up for this inattention, or do we want to make a big deal out of it? I still do not understand, and I hope that undersecretary Crimi will tell us something clear about this, explaining why the amendment was rejected. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u560	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u561	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u562	CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, first of all I would like to stress that from the speeches we have heard, in particular from those of the Senators of the Democratic Party and also from Senator Casini, there is no need to intervene on the bonus culture with the aim of promoting the culture of young people or the deepening of culture through newspapers. [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] Let me finish the surgery; I listened to it quietly. Mr Marcucci (PD). You're welcome. CRIMI, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I would say that there is a greater need for action on a sector in crisis. The same was said by President Casini, who brought me into the picture correctly. Speaking of the issue of the publishing crisis, this would be a way to help the sector. Senator Cangini, on the other hand, made an intervention on the merits of the destination of the cultural bonus. I would therefore distinguish the two aspects because, with regard to the cultural bonus, my colleague Montevecchi has already represented that there is the intention to review it in its entirety. I remember that in previous measures there were other measures that were requested or urged for inclusion in the cultural bonus, so in general terms there is not only this. I would add, however, that, as you know - and here we talk instead of newspapers - I have always argued from the beginning that there is not only the cultural bonus and I am working in this direction: it must not be that tool or the home to encourage the reader. The incentive to the reader must be universal, for all, even beyond the cultural bonus. Please listen to me. As part of the cost savings resulting from the reduction of direct funding to publishers, those spending savings will be used to intervene progressively on the publishing system as a whole, where the central point is citizens. The intervention that you will then have, even at the end of the work of the General States that will begin at the end of the month, will be precisely to use the savings of money no longer given to publishers in support of subscriptions to newspapers, not only of eighteen years old, but also of sixteen years old, 20 years old and 60 years old, of all. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is what needs to be done, which serves to create pluralism, culture and support for the publishing of information, but also the right to be informed even before it is informed. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u563	Excuse me, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to understand whether, with what you have said, reopening the debate, you have changed the opinion previously given by your colleague in the Government or if he maintains it, because I thought I could see an opening.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u564	Absolutely, Mr. President. I have said that intervention in favour of publishing with support for reading must be done in another measure which we shall be dealing with in the field of information and publishing for which I have the delegation at the end of the States-General. That of today therefore, in my opinion, is not the place to do this type of intervention, because for the bonus culture there is a path made by the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities that is quite different.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u565	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u566	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u567	VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP: No! No! MALPEZZI (PD). It's the Rules of Procedure! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure, when the representative of the Government intervenes, the discussion is reopened. Gasparri (FI-BP). The Rules of Procedure are quite clear, Mr President. I will not abuse the option that the Rules of Procedure offer us because we should debate for a long time, and this is not the time, nor the place. However, in addition to reaffirming the validity of the Cangini amendment, which has aroused attention, discussion and discussion in this House - and the role of Parliament is precisely to debate and debate - we note that the Government is saying that it will bring together the general states, even if we do not know when and with whom. In the same way, we note that up to now it has cut the funds for publishing, condemning to death numerous newspapers and also historical radio stations such as Radical Radio, of which I want to remember the experience and the situation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is therefore a government that stifles spaces of freedom. If information is the Rousseau platform, which I do not know how it works, it is not freedom, the pluralism of thought that must be guaranteed. The whole Group therefore supports and obviously supports the amendment tabled by Senator Cangini, as Vice-President Malan rightly and appropriately reminds me, but I also want to say that this Government is the one that is expressing itself in the European Parliament against the protection of copyright, because it is kneeling before the Potentates of the Network, the various Google, Netflix and Amazon, who dictate the positions. We want to respect the progress that is progressing, but also respect the newspapers, television, radio, provincial publishing, those guarantees of cultural pluralism and those garrisons of freedom that you are stifling, instead putting you on your knees in Europe before the potentates of the Network, who do not pay taxes and steal the copyrights, the work of journalists, authors, writers, people who would like to see recognized the value of their intellectual work, of their creativity. I believe that the amendment tabled by Senator Cangini sparked a much more serious debate, is not this, President, the place to take it back, but because the Undersecretary Crimes does not adequately confront Parliament, we ask that this be discussed, because these are fundamental articles of the Constitution that are violated by this Government, which kills freedom and pluralism in Italian information. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u568	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u569	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u570	Mr Marcucci (PD). Colleagues, the Rules of Procedure exist for everyone, and if you will allow me to speak, I simply ask you to exercise my right: I am sorry that you are sorry. I thank Senator Bagnai, because I believe he has clarified the government's motives. You, the Undersecretary, listened to him and I do not think you had anything different to emphasize than the things that have been supported. The Senator has made it clear that, since the newspapers from him, from you, from the 5 Star Movement, from the League, are largely not considered friends - I invite Senator Bagnai to listen again - it is obviously right not to finance them. I would also like to correct Mr Cangini. Of course, each of us has responsibilities for this, but I believe that someone also has merits: the merit of having at heart the future of our young people, of wanting to train them and of putting an important part of the state budget at their disposal. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then certainly this measure was born a few years ago, but it proved useful and very used, so much so that this Government was also obliged to confirm it. Today there is an important opportunity to improve it: you can include the possibility, that is the fact that young people can also consider subscribing to a newspaper [[Applause from the PD Group),]] to grow and to have more information, to evaluate policy choices, to be aware citizens. All things that bother you, as they are bothering you or bothering you inside the Rai, where you have done an unprecedented occupation of armchairs and where you are trying to compress the freedom of professionals and journalists. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is your attitude to freedom, that is your attitude - today discovered through this amendment - to training, to the future, to young people. You are attacking the press every day, preventing us from helping her; indeed, stressing that helping the press is bad, show the country who you really are. We are for culture, for young people, for freedom; we are for the newspapers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u571	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u572	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u573	MARTELLI (Mixed). With regard to the amendment in question, first of all I ask the proposer whether I can sign it. In reply to what the member of the Government and others have said, I would like to point out that the whole of the newspapers and periodicals that are normally spoken of are an infinitesimal part of the enormous amount of paid scientific journals that are currently published in the world. It is true that, for a high school or lower secondary school student in some areas, it is very difficult to comprehend even the simplest and most popular scientific articles. As for mathematics, one could go and look at the annals of the Lombard Institute Academy of Sciences and Letters. Perhaps a fifth - year high school student might also be able to figure out something about a piece of an article. With regard to other areas of research, such as law or agriculture, however, the articles are all widely available to students who follow, for example, agricultural expert studies. Every time a student wants to look for something scientific on the Internet, inevitably there are abstracts where it says: Do you want to continue? Click here, Subscriber (s) or Buy Article (s). So, a bonus of this kind, given access to scientific articles, is very relevant. It would not be the case for generalist publishing, because I would place it more in the field of information and not culture, but it would be the case for everything that is scientific. And the people who try to access the university databases in order to be able to consult an article remotely, are faced with the question if they have paid a subscription to access the archive. So let's put the students at least in a position to enjoy all the knowledge that it is now unfortunately only the privilege of those who can pay 30, 40, 50 dollars for a single article maybe ten pages and not for the entire magazine that of articles of that type contains about twenty. It is only for this very reason that we should now vote on this amendment with regard only to access to higher-level culture. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u574	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u575	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u576	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Marcucci for the attention he has paid to my speech, because he is always pleased when his colleagues take up the comments they make in this House. However, I do not think I have explained myself well and, therefore, perhaps we should add a few more words. I would not like this majority to be confined to the stereotype of barbaric enemies of culture and freedom. In fact, this is what an important international financial campaign called us, the 'Finncial Times', which we respect, of course. This is his position. It is true that several newspapers are little friends, otherwise friends of this majority, and we can see reasons for that: this majority wants to alter some political and economic balances. But with regard to the pluralism and fate of Italian publishing, the trends that we are observing - and this you can peacefully recognize, because it is a fact - pre-exist at the advent of this majority. The publishing market, particularly that of newspapers, is experiencing a slow decline. What is the reason for this decline? I do not know but, if I may say so, I believe that freedom of opinion, that of pluralism, is not a murder; we did not arrive and killed him. It seems to me that even in the evaluation of intellectually honest journalists - and there are many - is suicide. Plurality in Italy has become ill with conformism and has been reduced to a flattening that no longer satisfies readers. As the market exists, this leads to a crisis in the sector. Then, if the problem is that we want to remedy a suicide with a subsidy, it's a choice. But of course you cannot at the same time exalt the liberal economy and then ask to subsidise an industry in such a way, also because this subsidy is unhealthy and takes away space from so many independent publishing experiments that the new technologies allow. And it does this by occupying space with something that, if it is rejected by the reader, it will have to be noted, accompanying it serenely towards the natural extinction, certainly with all due caution regarding the professionalities involved, the occupational levels and all the various aspects. In other words, who is the cause of his evil crying for himself. We come in peace and thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u577	I'm asking to talk. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u578	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u579	PARAGO (M5S). Mr President, since Italian is not a bourgeois convention, it seemed to me that the words of Undersecretary Crimes were quite clear, at the time when he made a distinction between the so-called cultural bonus and the editorial crisis. However, I am obviously pleased that there is a great deal of attention from my colleagues in the Democratic Party to the freedom of the press. They could, perhaps in this context, perhaps in others, make a serious reflection on how, even through their failure to contribute, a glorious, historical warhead like "The Unity" had to close. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We're talking about a newspaper that they remember well in the Democratic Party's house. Perhaps it would also be interesting for PD colleagues to be able to respond to Concita De Gregorio, who is still waiting for your contribution. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] I read one of the passages of an article written after the interview given by Concita De Gregorio. The reason is that, almost ten years after leaving the direction of the Unit, he still has to face dozens of claims for damages for articles published by the newspaper when she was its director. These debts are not directly his: but since the publisher has failed and many of the journalists of the time are now unemployed or untraceable, De Gregorio is forced to pay for all of them. [[Senator Rampi's comments.]] I believe, having carried out until a few months ago the ungrateful task of directing newspapers, that a signal from colleagues in the Democratic Party, always so sensitive to the issue of freedom of the press, would be very welcome, precisely in support of one of the last guidelines of the Unity, historical magazine that they well know. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Verducci (PD). Vote for the amendment then!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u580	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 27,0.700, tabled by Senator Cangini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 28 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u581	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 28.5 and 28.2 and against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u582	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u583	I would like to point out that the Commission's amendment 28.5, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Committee, is voted by a simultaneous vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 28.2 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.3 tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 28.4 (text 2), tabled by Senators Nannicini and Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 1 of the bill of conversion, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to make their views known.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u584	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u585	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u586	Let us move on to amendment x1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment x1.1, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us resume the examination of the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u587	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u588	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u589	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the majority, I would like to say that we withdraw Amendment No 23.5 (text 3), which appears to be put aside, and we are turning it into an agenda if the Government has no difficulty in accepting it. Finally, I would like to say that the rapporteur's first consideration of withdrawal on Amendment No 24.8 is correct, because the text as it stands is not good for the Accounting Office. So there is a new text, a rewording, which, however, at this point, for reasons of time will be examined in the House of Deputies. So, we withdraw him. Speaking of which, I ask Senator Mallegni if he wants to do it himself. I apologize if I have bumped into your sensitivity, as it was absolutely not our intention. If it takes so little to make her happy, we are absolutely at your disposal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u590	Senator Romeo withdrew amendment 23.5 (text 3) and turned it into an agenda on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u591	Mr President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u592	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u593	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda for G23.5 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 23.8 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 23.8 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 23.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I call for a simultaneous vote by ballot of the first part of Amendment 23.9, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators, up to the words "any title." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 23.10. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 24.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.1, tabled by Senator Laforgia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 24.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 24.2 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). There is the question of amendment 24.8 which has been withdrawn because it has the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. Senator Malan asks to vote on it. I would point out to the House that although the amendment is from the Commission, pursuant to Rule 102 (6), all the amendments withdrawn and which should be declared to have been dropped due to the absence of the proposers can be taken over by other senators. I'm saying this in order to be calm in case there's a dispute. I call on the rapporteurs to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u594	I call for your change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u595	Senator Malan, on behalf of the Group, do you accept the change of agenda? MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we are asking for a vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is the rapporteur's opinion? CATALFO, rapporteur. Mr President, the opinion is against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u596	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u597	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 24.8 tabled by the Commission, withdrawn by the rapporteurs and subsequently made by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The final explanations of vote will be given tomorrow morning in the presence of live television. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u598	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-94.ana.u599	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 27 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.
