ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 15 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Education, University and Research will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-00509 on the reserve of posts for bilingual staff in the police forces in the province of Bolzano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u4	Mr President, we have already read the request and, therefore, I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u5	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u6	Mr President, I welcome the Teutonic synthesis and wish the re-elected President of the Autonomous Province of Bolzano every success. Good luck! Mr President, Senators, in relation to what the honourable Members have requested, I would like to stress that on several occasions I have publicly supported the firm intention to strengthen the staff of the police forces throughout the national territory through new recruitments. I remember the 8,000 men and women in uniform who, to date from this 2019, will guarantee more security in all Italian cities, from Bolzano to Catania. In fact, in the approved budget law, this intention has been realized with the forecast of an extraordinary plan of strengthening that will develop, from 2019, over the three-year period. The Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the due respect for legal obligations, pays particular attention to the need to ensure, also through the assignments of bilingual personnel, the maximum framework of collaboration between the police forces and the populations of South Tyrol. In this respect, the procedures which will be initiated for new recruitments will take into account the regulatory provisions governing the reserve of posts in favour of candidates holding the certificate of bilingualism. With regard to the ongoing procedures, I inform you that on 8 November the 204th initial training course for 491 student agents was started, which will be assigned to the respective departments during the year 2019. Some candidates took part in the competition using the reservation I mentioned earlier. There was also a competition for 654 other state police officers reserved for the volunteers of the Armed Forces, in which two additional posts are reserved for holders of the certificate of bilingualism. Finally, with the fiscal laws of the years 2017 and 2018 the recruitment of 589 students was authorised and under this procedure four other posts were reserved for bilingual staff. The percentage of the reserve is always indicated in the competition notices and is identified on the basis of the holidays of staff, according to the provisions in force. This criterion, not based on mere automatism, allows the most effective contemplating of the rights of those concerned and the needs of the administration connected with the most rational and efficient distribution on the territory of the men of the Forces of Order. Basically, after years of hiring blocks, not only as far as you require, but as far as all Italian citizens and quaestors require, I think I can answer yes: the money is there, the political will is there. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Steger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u7	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u8	Minister, thank you for your valuable reply and also for the recognition of the importance of bilingualism and bilingual staff in the territory of the Province of Bolzano.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u9	Senator Grasso has the right to explain the question 3-00514 on the Mafia ambush that took place in Pesaro on December 25, 2018, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u10	Minister, on December 25, 2018, in the center of Pesaro, there was an ambush in pure mafia style that caused the death of Marcello Bruzzese, subject to special protection program as brother of Girolamo Bruzzese, who in 2003, after having attempted to kill the head of the 'ndrangheta of Rizziconi, Teodoro Crea, was formed to collaborate with the justice and providing the district direction antimafia of Reggio Calabria information about the affairs of the cosca of Rizziconi and its ties with entrepreneurship and local politics, which led to the arrest of important members of the clan and the dissolution of the City Council. After the beginning of this collaboration the father-in-law and an uncle of the collaborator were killed and Brother Marcello, victim of the Pesaro attack, was subjected to a special program of protection. Marcello Bruzzese lived in Pesaro with his family in a protected home, obtained by the Ministry of the Interior. It is clear from the method of execution that the assassins waited for him as he returned to the house, in secret theory, and killed him. It is well known that the mafias do not forget and that the revenge and feuds do not expire. What happened to Pesaro is a very serious fact and, as far as it turns out, unprecedented. It is surprising that recently measures have been taken to revoke protective measures that highlight a lowering of the levels of safety and attention to the phenomenon, such as removing the escort to Captain Ultimo, a measure later blocked by the TAR, and to the entrepreneur from Palermo Vincenzo Conticello, just when the mobsters sentenced following his accusations have finished serving the sentence and are now at liberty. I ask you, Minister, how do you explain that all this could have happened; whether consideration has been given to the topicality of the risk of cross selling following the harsh 2017 condemnations to the Crea clan; whether you consider the human and material resources for the Central Protection Service to be adequate in the face of an increase in the protected population of 26% compared to 2010; whether there had been a change of generality of the associates of the collaborator of justice; whether they had been provided cover documents or prepared a fictitious residence pole for mail and notifications; finally, what initiatives the Minister intends to take to ensure maximum protection for those who, be they justice collaborators, witnesses of justice, journalists, magistrates or political representatives, are under the protection of the State and the Ministry of the Interior. [[Applause from Senator Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u11	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Grasso for his question. As of December 31, 2018, a total of 6.031 persons were subjected to special protection measures in our country, including justice workers, witnesses of justice and their family members. The related activities, as it is intuitive, have particular sensitivity, complexity and confidentiality. The local responsibility for the protection profiles of the collaborators and witnesses of justice is entrusted to the territorially competent police bodies, while the operational protection units, peripheral joints of the Central Protection Service that you were talking about, are responsible for the care of the aspects of assistance. A procedure is currently under way for the reorganisation of the Central Protection Service, as provided for by the law of conversion of the Security and Immigration Decree, passed on 1 December, in order to ensure the best rationalization of activities and the separate management of witnesses and justice workers and to report to this House as soon as possible, technically speaking, the offices of the State Police will have concluded this path, which, of course and fortunately, disregards the political will. As for the murder of Marcello Bruzzese, I inform that the same had been admitted in 2003 to the provisional plan of protection. He had moved to his first protected home, in the province of Pesaro and Urbino, in 2008 and in the last protected home was transferred in 2014. With regard to what has happened, I express my personal regret and trust that the ongoing investigations can make full clarity and I am quite certain of that. There are many activities in place for the purposes of protection. However, there is always a need for a firm will on the part of the recipients of the protection programme to take all those forms of camouflage, in the context where they live, that do not allow them to be unveiled. In this sense, the protected themselves sign a special act by which they are obliged to respect the behavioral norms provided for by the law (more, of course, we cannot impose them). Neither Marcello Bruzzese, nor his brother, have ever called for a change in generalities. As for the cover documents, Marcello Bruzzese used them until 2009, then giving up on his express will, while his brother never asked to take advantage of them. Since the transfer of the aforementioned and his family members to the province of Pesaro and Urbino, no particular episodes or situations have been reported from which a rise in risk exposure could be expected. The investigation after the murder is carried out by the provincial command of the Arma dei Carabinieri of Pesaro and Urbino and is still in progress and covered by secret. Let me remind you that the will to fight every kind of mafia in Italy I think belongs to the whole of this House and in the security decree, which I mentioned earlier, there is a doubling of the men, means, resources and powers available to the National Agency for property confiscated and seized to the mafia, because this Government, and I think all this Parliament, of the fight against the mafia make their priority. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u13	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Grasso for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u14	Mr. Minister, your words cannot be considered satisfactory if you consider that there has been a warning from Reggio Calabria's attorney about the danger of transversal vendetta and, above all, after the attempted murder, a few months after the sentence condemning the Crea, of an indictment witness, such Pasquale Inzitari. These reports had to lead to greater attention. Two alternatives: either the co-worker's protected domicile was moved or, for particular supervisory measures, the territorial bodies, which, in fact, have the responsibility for supervision, were notified. I remember that strict respect for the rule of humor, the law of silence, has always been fundamental to guarantee the secrecy of criminal associations, the impunity of the leaders, of the affiliates, of the connected external subjects and, therefore, the very survival of the entire criminal structure. For this reason, collaborators and witnesses of justice remain an indispensable tool for the fight against mafias. Their revelations, and it's not up to me to remember, have wrecked murder plans, saved human lives, identify confiscated property, identify the perpetrators of an impressive number of illicit trafficking, the massacres in which Falcone and Borsellino lost their lives and the people involved in the massacres of Florence and Milan. An episode like that of Pesaro constitutes a vulnus difficult to recover in the protection system, which can also generate a stalemate in collaborations to the advantage of the mafias. Let me say, Minister, that the unwise statements that the mafias will be erased in a few months or a few years, contrast with the reality of the facts, with the episode of Pesaro, but not only with the ambushes in Calabria, with the bombs in Afragola, with the explosion of the pizzeria Sorbillo and with the fugitive Matthew Messina Money, all signs - alas - of their funeral presence and danger. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u15	Senator Iannone has the right to explain the question 3-00510 on the implementation of an extraordinary plan for the safety of the Castelvolturno area, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy are sentinels in effective permanent service when it comes to defending legality and ensuring security for Italian citizens. For months we have been denouncing the risk that our nation is running with the Nigerian mafia, an alarm that is reported by all sources of intelligence, the international press and our anti-mafia structures. The Nigerian mafia is a particularly ferocious mafia, dedicated to drug trafficking, human beings, the exploitation of prostitution, gambling and, recently, the media report very worrying news about organ trafficking. Castelvolturno has become the Gotham City of the South. It has become the center of the Nigerian Mafia, a city that has been martyred, first by the Camorra and now by this phenomenon. It sees the presence of over 25,000 immigrants, who represent the jailers of those honest Italian citizens, who do their duty and are besieged by crime. You announced that tomorrow, with due respect, you will be in Naples. I wonder if you intend to be, in uniform or in bourgeois terms, also in Castelvolturno and above all I ask you whether it is the Government's intention - since your colleague, Minister Trenta, yesterday, answering a question from our national leader, Mr Giorgia Meloni, said it was available - to draw up a concrete plan that could bring the Army to Castelvolturno, in order to guarantee again the legality and security. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u17	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u18	Thank you for the question: yes, it is true, tomorrow morning I will be in Rigopiano and then, in the afternoon, in Afragola. I think that I will wear a beige sweater and I hope that Parliament will be able to find its own unity of intent in this regard, without this bothering anyone. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). You have to respect the law! Mr Salvini, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister for the Interior. I also have a bitterness, if you will. Nigerian criminal groups operating in our country have a top structure, with organizational and behavioral characteristics typical of the mob system, such as the force of intimidation of the associative bond, the condition of subjection and omerty, the recourse to violence. The Nigerian mafia has shown extreme versatility and penetration capacity in different regions, even where indigenous criminal organizations are already present. I thank, for example, the Forces of the order of Cagliari, which I visited yesterday, because at the end of the year they arrested 27 members of the Nigerian Mafia, who controlled the market of prostitution and drugs in the province of Cagliari. In particular in the Domitian area, in the province of Caserta, the aforementioned criminal groups have long gained a competitive position in many illegal activities. With regard to the specific situation of the Municipality of Castelvolturno, it has been established that there are structured relationships between Nigerian criminal groups and Italian camorristic crime, especially in the management of drug trafficking. This government, as already mentioned, makes the fight against the mafias a qualifying point of its political action. I can assure you that with respect to the Nigerian Mafia there is a constant attention from the Forces of the Order, translated in recent months in various interventions of Police judicial, which have concerned different Regions and, more specifically, just Castelvolturno and the province of Caserta. The area of Castelvolturno is today the subject of particular attention. The Prefect of Caserta is coordinating a specific project, which includes a plan of interventions for the redevelopment of the affected area and which has already produced important results. The recent legislation on security and immigration also provides for additional instruments, which can be used effectively; for example, the increase in video surveillance. As regards the use of the Armed Forces in support of the control activities of the territory, the national plan of employment relating to the Safe Roads operation is already active. This plan assigns to the Prefect of Caserta an overall rate of 230 soldiers, already employed in supervisory services to sensitive objectives, which can be re-modulated and strengthened on the basis of technical and operational evaluations. Therefore the willingness to increase the defense of the territory is absolutely total. Let me close with a given: if in 2016 and 2017 the landings had exceeded 300,000 and in 2018 they stopped at 23,000, evidently a contribution to the security of the province of Caserta and of our country we gave it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u19	I give the floor to Senator Iannone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u20	Thank you, Minister. The sweater is also good grenade, because I'm from Salerno. Battute aside, I believe there is a need for a strong and determined commitment, as you announce, because by now only Saviano and De Magistris have remained to be refugees in the rhetoric of the "good savage" of Rousseau: only recently, Governor De Luca also noticed the problem. We have fought and will continue to fight, as we have done with the amendments on Safe Roads, so that this is not only a programme for monitoring sensitive objectives, but also patrolling and controlling the territory. Just as we are waiting for an answer to a question to know what results it has produced what its predecessor, Minister Minniti, had established with considerable resources for Castelvolturno, because the citizens have not seen any results. We also expect that you will soon, if you cannot tomorrow, both in Castelvolturno, that the Army will be employed, that it will not be used to plug the holes (that must do the capacity of the administrators), and that it will be aimed at guaranteeing our homeland, our land, our territory. We also expect a special law for Castelvolturno, with which citizens must be compensated by this expropriation of sovereignty they have suffered. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u21	Senator Pellegrini Emanuele has the right to explain the question 3-00508 on the arrest of Cesare Battisti and on the search for fugitives abroad, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u22	Mr President, on Saturday afternoon, January 12, 2019, Cesare Battisti was arrested in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, a city in the center of Bolivia. To complete the operation, according to the press, it would have been a special team of Interpol, composed of Bolivian, Italian and Brazilian agents. The former terrorist, already escaped from Frosinone prison in 1981 and subsequently sentenced in absentia for involvement in some murders committed in the 1970s, has fled Italy for a long time and has lived abroad in all these years. He went to Brazil and was arrested for the first time in 2007 and applied for and obtained political refugee status until the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court, in 2009, declared that status unlawful, expressing itself in favour of extradition to Italy. However, in December 2010, pro-tempore President Lula Da Silva decided not to grant extradition. The former terrorist had lost track of him in December 2018, after an arrest order had been issued against him. The Brazilian new president Bolsonaro, just entered office, in the first days of January, said he was in favour of the extradition of Battisti to Italy. Following the arrest, the former terrorist was led to Italy, where he finally landed at Ciampino airport and was subsequently transferred to Massama prison. Today we are asked to know whether the reconstructions provided by the press on the matter, which led to the arrest of Baptists, are in conformity with the truth and what initiatives the Minister in address intends to take against other condemned individuals, with final sentence, that they have become fugitive fleeing abroad. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u23	The Minister for the Interior, Senator Salvini, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u24	Mr President, allow me to dedicate this speech to Alberto Torregiani, who is present in the gallery and to all the family members of the victims. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]] I think it was a good page for Italy, for everyone. The capture of Battisti, which took place at the crown of a synergistic investigative activity of the State Police, which I warmly thank, in collaboration with AISE, whom I warmly thank, and the Bolivian police, whom I thank from my heart, demonstrated the efficiency of the Italian security systems and the excellent level of international collaboration between the various police and intelligence. In particular, the identification of the fugitive in Santa Cruz de la Sierra was carried out by the Interpol office of Bolivia, which in a first phase sent to the Italian operators a video reproducing a suspect, identified during a patrol activity in that area of the city. Following checks between the video reproduction and some photographs of the fugitive, and having found the possible correspondence, the Bolivian Interpol office was asked for immediate control of the suspect, who was stopped and detained. On the morning of January 13, the expulsion of the Baptists was formalized, notified to it by Bolivian police officers. All this has happened also and above all thanks to the intervention of the Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro, that I want, on behalf of 60 million Italians, to publicly thank for having changed the route that the previous Governments had held. The Baptists, who arrived in Italy on 14 January at Ciampino airport, were therefore notified of the measure that will see him atone for life imprisonment. For the Government, the capture of Baptists represents a step change in the search for all the fugitives who have escaped Italian justice by repairing abroad and we will work to return them to our country to serve the penalties to which they have been sentenced. We consider this commitment, which should unite and not divide, necessary to ensure the certainty of the penalty, but also and above all a moral obligation towards the victims and their family members who after decades deserve justice. [[Applause from the M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u25	Senator Pellegrini Emanuele has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u26	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply and for your information. Obviously, we are satisfied, because thanks to these indications and above all thanks to the activity of the Government, with the cooperation of the Brazilian Executive, we have once more demonstrated how much this Government has a decidedly different step and we have reminded the Italian people that this is really a rule of law. This is a due act, not seen by everyone as such, but I believe it is above all an act of respect for those who have suffered and are still suffering the effects of ignoble and shameful acts. You rightly recalled the presence of Alberto Torregiani, whom we greet and try to support. These acts will never be forgotten and we will never have to stop condemning them. In thanking the Forces of Order, which have led to this result, I hope that this will be the first of a long series of acts aimed at the full restoration of justice, where this has been guiltfully forgotten. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u27	Senator Iori has the right to explain the question 3-00511 on the need for support teachers in the first cycle of education, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u28	Minister, in the 2019 budget law, in the estimate of the MIUR, expenditure on the item is significantly reduced compared to the 2018 budget law, which I quote: "School integration measures for students with special educational needs, including staff costs (supporting teachers) " In fact, we have a reduction of 73 million for 2019 and 230 million for 2020 and, in fact, this decrease results in the impossibility of hiring the more than 40,000 specialized teachers promised by the Government and therefore penalize the 240,500 pupils with disabilities who daily experience difficulties, precisely because of the lack of specialized staff intended for them. Istat has recently given us the figure of 36% of teachers who receive support and who are not qualified to specialize. Minister, we have had time and time again to appreciate your interest and your statements, which have always stressed your attention to the issue of pupils with disabilities. You said you didn't cut your support, but started a path that focused on the training of 40,000 teachers in three years: this confirms that there will therefore be no new recruitment. Of course, we are very happy and we fully agree with the approach of investing in the training of support teachers, but it is certainly quite different from filling the gaps of staff with recruitment plans. As regards the declarations concerning the future year-by-year intention to invest additional resources, these are not reflected in the reduction referred to above. Therefore, the point of this question is to know what measures are being pursued, and in what times, if we really want to invest in an inclusive and welcoming school for pupils with special needs or if instead we are faced with cuts that go to hit just those pupils who, more than all, are in conditions of fragility, in our schools. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u29	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u30	Senator Iori, I respond to your question by stating, firmly, that it does not correspond to the truth that the 2019 Budget Act has reduced the financial resources allocated to support teachers. The award of support teachers is based, as should be well known, on the principles established by the Constitutional Court's judgments no. 80 of 2010 and 275 of 2006, which have established that the insurmountable core of minimum guarantees to make effective the right to study and education of disabled pupils cannot be financially conditioned in absolute and general terms; it is the guarantee of the incompressible rights to affect the budget, and not the balance of this to condition its due delivery. Therefore, the Ministry will continue to grant the necessary support to all pupils with certified disabilities, no one excluded; this is because the right to education of the student with disabilities is the subject of specific protection both in the international and internal law and is, as you mentioned, a fundamental right. The budget approved by Law No 145 of 2018 does not contradict what I have just said. By simple accounting agreement, the proportion of the expenditure on support, which relates to fixed-term teachers, was entered in the budget for only one year, and that is why, only apparently, there is a reduction in the appropriations for support in subsequent years. Moreover, the special attention that, since the day of my installation, the Ministry is dedicating to the topic of disability, is demonstrated by incontrovertible facts, as you recalled: we have gathered several times the Permanent Observatory for School Inclusion, which has not met for a very long time (the first call is dated 27 June 2018); we have started the third cycle of specialization on support for the school of childhood and primary and requested the MEF, for the first time, to authorize as many as 40,000 places for the next courses of specialization, also for the secondary school: the new courses could start already in the next spring; in the budget law just approved we have also simplified the access to the specialization courses, providing that young graduates, whether qualified or not, can participate. With regard, then, to Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2017 and the postponement of the entry into force of some provisions of the same, provided for by the fiscal law 2019, I cannot fail to point out that the aforementioned legislative decree provides as many as ten implementing measures, with a deadline of one hundred and eighty days from its entry into force, for the enactment of the same. Well, one year after its approval, the previous government had adopted only two. When I was established, I gave a special priority to the implementation of the provisions on school inclusion, so much so that, as early as 24 July 2018, I presented to the Permanent Observatory for School Inclusion the outline of all the implementing measures. Within a short time, we will bring to the attention of the competent parliamentary committees - in order to obtain the prescribed opinion - also the corrective decree of Legislative Decree no. 66 of 2017, built with the fundamental contribution of the representative organizations of people with disabilities, to which, last December, a first draft of the measure has already been submitted. These are the initiatives that, in addition to the creation of a Dicastery for Disability, demonstrate, indeed confirm, the concrete commitment of the Government, and my staff - believe me - for the promotion of an effective school inclusion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u31	Senator Malpezzi has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u32	Minister, I am sorry because you are a man of school and I recognize what you have done at the head of the Regional School Office in Milan. However, a schoolman cannot defend the indefensible. You have once again told us here a series of good intentions that are denied by the budget law voted by the current Government. The simple answer, as a clear man as you are, should have been one: we did not put a euro for the recruitment of support teachers. That's what you did. She, who is a coherent person, more than once said that the school must do with what it has and must rationalize. Mr Bussetti, do you know when the term 'rationalize' was last used? When a cut of 11 billion euros was made to the detriment of the school by a government group in which - by chance - there was the League, which wanted to rationalise in this sense. You're called the Government of Change, but you've only changed the semantics. Training the 40,000 support teachers means hiring, but no, you don't hire. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In September there will be no new recruitment of permanent support teachers. I want to say this, because the only time that this government recognizes in the school is when and who knows - funds will be allocated, which has not been done so far. In the last budget law you even provided a guarantee of 130 million for 2019. If the public accounts do not return, there will automatically be the cut, because so much that could be put under warranty. So let's tell it clearly: you may be doing so much to support words, but in fact the only change you have made is that of vocabulary, vocabulary. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u33	On behalf of the House, I greet Mr Rick Mazza, of the Parliament of Western Australia, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u34	Senator Masini has the right to explain the question 3-00512 on the failure of the heating systems of the classrooms, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u35	Minister, thank you for being here to answer our question. You certainly know how much we - perhaps better - are in the situation of Italian schools. Press, television and student mobilizations testify every day to the serious situation of heating in Italian school buildings. This applies to all regions, from North to South. Allow me to mention my region - Tuscany - once a land of efficiency, which in recent times also suffers from these serious deficiencies. I also mention my city, Pistoia, which recently witnessed the situation, on national televisions, because of the important mobilization made by students on this issue. The schools - many, unfortunately - are in the cold and are dangerous and this is very serious. The schools are old and this is not worthy of a country that wants to say civil. When the kids (I think of one of the students who testified the other day) tell us that in the classroom the temperature is 10 degrees, we can't be surprised if our kids don't want to go to school. I repeat, we cannot be surprised if they prefer to skip lessons - but not because they are wanderers - thus failing a training path that will lead them to a better future, which - perhaps - will not even make it necessary to resort to subsidiary incomes, such as that of dignity. We know that the problem is a long one, it is not a recent one and that it is also due to the wretched reform of the Provinces made by Graziano Delrio and not by you. However, it is a fact that this is an unhappy reform that we must put our hands on as soon as possible, because the Provinces, together with other bodies, are the subjects that manage the school sector. We must at least be very careful in correcting this situation. It must be said that there are over 40,000 schools in the local authorities and that the problem is really serious, since over 22,000 are over forty years old. Mr Minister, we appreciate the fact that you, once installed, promoted the establishment of a register of schools, from which, however, data emerge - these are your words - desolate. There have been situations of serious inadequacy for one out of every four schools, and the lack of resources has a major impact on heating systems. The picture is bleak. In the face of this data, we need a school building plan for which very important investments are needed; investments which, unfortunately, in our view, the last budget law has not supported in the appropriate manner. I will therefore ask you specific questions, Minister, since you have said that you have 7 billion for school construction, giving resources directly to the local authorities. I'll be quick. How will these 1.7 billion already earmarked for the security of buildings be used during 2019? There is also a billion for the anti-seismic, already unlocked. How much of this figure will be realized in the course of this year? There are still more than 4 billion, compared to the 7 billion of which he talked about, and how much of these will be used for simple problems such as those of the adaptation of the systems that we talked about, namely heating, conditioning, electrical system, hydraulics, ceilings, that is, the problems that daily come to the chronicle and make our schools appear really in a painful state compared to what we find on the other side of the Alps, for example? Finally, we realize that a serious plan of school construction, of regeneration of the buildings and facilities of the schools, in addition to putting our young people in the conditions of being able to study better, can be an effective trigger for the economic growth of the country and for the creation of new jobs, so maybe we will save even a little on the income of citizenship? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u36	The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u37	Senator Masini, in replying to your question, I must first point out - as you did too - that the local authorities are the owners of school buildings, which must ensure the heating of classrooms and, more generally, of all school premises. This does not mean that the problem you have mentioned is not of interest to the Ministry of Education, University and Research, which can only draw the attention of Municipalities and Provinces to put in place any appropriate initiative to prevent problems related to the incorrect functioning of heating systems from affecting the regular conduct of teaching activities. By the way, I would like to remind you that the local authorities, the owners of school buildings, have access, also with reference to the interventions related to the adaptation of heating systems, to ordinary state funding, presenting to this end the request for the inclusion of such interventions in the national three-year programming 2018-2020. More generally, in the health of our school buildings, I can only agree that the data we have is not comforting, especially in view of the considerable financial resources that the State has made available to local authorities in recent years. That is why, being firmly convinced that the safety of our students, our students and all the school staff is a top priority, I have worked since the very first days of my installation so that the management of the school building was marked, as well as the maximum transparency, by a significant simplification and acceleration of the related administrative procedures. Thanks to some targeted legislative interventions that I have obtained the inclusion in some recent legislative measures also of an urgent nature, and thanks to an agreement concluded at the Unified Conference on 6 September 2018 with the world of the Regions and local authorities, we were able to unblock more than 3 billion euros of funding and to authorize about 2,000 new interventions to clean up as many school buildings. We also approved, again in September 2018, the 2018-2020 three-year programming that takes into account all the needs reported by municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities also with regard to plant maintenance and energy efficiency. With these interventions (to which others will follow in the coming months) we have finally enabled the local authorities to use those financial resources which, in the past, were limited to allocating without worrying that they were translated into concrete interventions to protect the safety of our students, our students and all the staff who work in our institutions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u38	Senator Masini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u39	Minister, I appreciate your words, but we cannot be satisfied. The situation of Italian schools is a priority right away, it has been since yesterday. A tweet, a Facebook post is not enough; we really have to act. We must - these are very dear words to you - be concrete and dignified. Nothing needs to be more concerned with the concreteness and dignity of Italian schools, in which our children build their future. We cannot leave responsibility to local authorities and the Provinces alone. I was the first to recognize this situation, but from the government we want strong, concrete acts. There is nothing more important than the future of these children; there is nothing more important than going to school in safe conditions; there is nothing more important than giving legitimacy to teachers, to those who do this complex work, in conditions of environmental and wage difficulties, all situations that we know. Kids who want to go to school must be able to go there; they must not go with gloves, they must not prefer to be on the street. I hope, on behalf of my Group, that there will be a very strong commitment on this front. Until we see it, soul and heart, we will not be satisfied. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u40	Senator Russo has the right to explain the question 3-00507 on the teaching of jazz instruments in music schools, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u41	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bussetti, to whom I address him, for his attention. I state that, prior to the decree of the President of the Republic n. 19 of 2016, there were no separate competition classes for each instrument taught in musical high schools and that the teachers were employed on the basis of ratings in classes A031, A032, A077, asserting, for the identification of the title holder with respect to the individual instruments, the instrumental rating for the A077, or the title AFAM (High musical and choreutica artistic training). The school secretariats then had to proceed to manual insertions of the specifications. With the decree of the President of the Republic n. 19 of 2016, which lays down rules for the rationalization and amalgamation of classes of competition to chairs and teaching places, promoted by the first Government protempore Renzi, the competition classes have been rationalised and merged. The decree of the President of the Republic in part appears, however, incomplete and without univocal guidelines. In fact, in Table A, code A-55, relating to the teaching of musical instruments in high schools, the AFAM titles related to both classical music and jazz music have converged indiscriminately, without making a necessary and specific distinction. In the current state of affairs, classical music instruments have their own specific competition class (e.g. AB55 for guitar, AC55 for clarinet) while jazz instruments have not been regulated. Consider that, because of this lack of legislation, students are not guaranteed the possibility to choose to mark their school path on the study of a jazz instrument and that, in the absence of specific competition classes, jazz instrument teachers cannot participate in competitions and therefore not even acquire the qualification to teach. In fact, no post has been banned at the 2016 competition, as can be seen from the quota attached to the notice. In addition, article 4, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree No. 59 of 2017, provides that, by decree, the Minister of Education, University and Research periodically reorders and updates the competition classes to ensure consistency between the teachings given, the disciplinary classes of ownership of the teachers and the classes of the degree courses. By ministerial decree n. 259 of 2017, the Minister protempore Fedeli revised the decree of the President of the Republic n. 19 of 2016, but on that occasion did not provide to solve the problem of classes of jazz instrument competition. It is therefore asked to know whether the Minister in address is aware of the situation and what initiatives he intends to take to confirm jazz music in the musical high school systems and, consequently, to proceed with all appropriate legislative initiatives to ensure that, already from the next school year, it is possible to enroll in a jazz instrument class. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Education, Universities and Research, Dr. Bussetti, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u42	Senator Russo, I answer your question by pointing out in advance that the orders of the music schools do not include addresses or sections specifically dedicated to the teaching of jazz music. During the five years of the course of the music high school students must, in fact, develop executive and interpretive skills related to songs and authors of different contexts and moments of the history of music. It is, with all evidence, a wide-ranging preparation that cannot, therefore, be exclusively dedicated to a single moment, to a single style and to a single musical technique. And it is precisely for this reason that the national indications for the high schools do not foresee, with reference to the musical high schools, the creation of a code for each specific jazz instrument, precisely in view of the fact that the teacher of musical instrument must form the students and students in the sense (I read a quote) of: acquisition of a rich specific instrumental literature (authors, methods and compositions), soloist and overall, representative of the different moments and contexts of the history of music (in the evolution of its languages) up to the contemporary age. Having said this, the possible introduction of specific classes of competition dedicated to the teaching of jazz music would, in any case, require careful reflection on the desirability of making order changes that should necessarily pass through the revision of national indications for music schools. Therefore, only as a result of such an orderly adjustment could it be possible, compatible with the availability of the relevant financial resources, to create an ad hoc staff and also separate rankings, as you wished. On the other hand, the fact that the decree of the President of the Republic n. 19 of 2016, the regulation laying down provisions for the rationalization and amalgamation of classes of competition for chairs and places of teaching, as amended and supplemented by Ministerial Decree n. 259 of 2017, does not provide for the second level academic diplomas related to jazz instruments (e.g. jazz piano, jazz guitar or jazz violin) as titles of access to the competition class A-55 (Music instrument in secondary schools of 2nd grade), I represent that, in the context of a wider revision of the forecasts of the Regulation adopted in 2016, the specially constituted working group proposed to fill this gap by incorporating the second level academic diplomas related to jazz instruments among the titles of access to the class of competition A-55. I will conclude by ensuring that I will devote the utmost attention to the theme mentioned in view of the importance that knowledge of musical phenomena such as jazz has in the training of students and students who attend musical high schools. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u43	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Russo for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u44	Minister, I am partially satisfied. His proposal, in fact, gives the possibility to graduates in jazz specializations to be included in the competition classes and this is a very important thing because they have acquired a specific degree, a degree obtained regularly as in the classical instrument and therefore, participating in a competition in the chair, they can also enable themselves and access to teaching. In addition, children who choose such a specialization will have to attend five years of high school, maybe eight if they come from the middle school with musical address, before starting a specialization in a course of studies that however has its own peculiarities, a path that is based more on audio-tactical skills than on the reading of the score. So probably these kids, in their access to the next three years, might also have difficulties. However, I am very happy to hear that one thinks of a new order of high school that can somehow bring back manifestations of musical culture that can now be quite rightly defined as educated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u45	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u48	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a similar speech last November I deplored the abuses of power propitiated by the Ministerial Decree of 23 December 2015, which prohibits employees of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities (MIBAC) from criticizing the decisions of the leaders. I return today to the so-called gag decree, because it is used as a deterrent to prevent archaeologists from openly expressing their disagreement with the organizational reform implemented by former minister Franceschini. The occasion is given by an appeal to archaeologists, launched on 20 December, of the Italian Institute for Archaeology and Art History. Addressed to all archaeologists, outside and within the ranks of MIBAC, the document, which has at the bottom the signatures of 13 between former Directors General and former Superintendents, after the analysis of the devastating damage - I quote to the letter - obtained archaeology from the second phase of the Franceschini reform, strongly advances five requests. First, to restore autonomy and original locations to the Archaeological Superintendences; secondly, to restore autonomy to the relevant Directorate-General; thirdly, to re-association to the Archaeological Superintendences of Archaeological Museums and non-autonomous Archaeological Areas; fourthly, to assign to competition commissions composed of experts in archaeology the choice of directors of the main museums and archaeological parks; finally, to regulate, on the basis of the university titles held, quality, dignity, scientific rights and responsibilities of archaeologists, both of public administration, and free professionals. Personally, I responded to the appeal as soon as it was published. Many colleagues have done the same and today the signatures are over a thousand: high-sounding names such as those of Lincei academics, authors also of their own document, or semi-unknown as those of the members of the coordination "Do you recognize me? I'm a cultural asset professional." They are all names not of nostalgic of the time that it was, but of intellectually honest and free professionals who exercise their freedom of expression despite pressing invitations to silence. In the universities, in fact, many B-class researchers waiting for confirmation are in fact "gagged" and the same happens to many employees of the public administration. I would add, however, that the API and more than one important trade union confederation have joined the appeal. The so-called gag decree is in fact used for intimidating purposes by executives who, in doing so, try to prevent the archaeologists of MIBAC from certifying the failure of the Franceschini reform. While respecting those in good faith who have believed in the reform and those who pretend to believe it still, the country cannot afford to indulge in the resistance of the many "miraculates," projected in the front row in the holistic Superintendences and in the Museum Poles during the past management, Tuscan-centric and tetragona to reward the merit, intellectual gifts and moral right. Nor can he afford, outside the Ministry, to give space to the barons of the universities, who with the opportunistic counter-appeal fail as sentimental return to the past any hypothesis of securing the smoking remains of MIBAC. They cannot decide the future of the Nation's historical and artistic heritage, which the State has given priority to protecting and promoting culture. Protection, precisely, is the primary task of MIBAC; It must be returned to him if we want him to survive the disastrous reform of Franceschini and to make sense again. On 10 January, Minister Bonisoli announced that the reorganization effort in place will produce, in the coming weeks, a new structure of the Ministry with regard to the role, number and articulation of the Superintendences. I can only wish, with all my colleagues, the return to the archaeology of autonomy and lost dignity. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u51	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House only two days ago we heard arguments about why TAV Torino Lyon is a fundamental work, not only for Piedmont, but for the whole country. If I don't know what's going on and I'm based on what's being said here and what's being said on TV or in the newspapers, I might almost agree with you. Too bad it's another reality. But I start my speech from a fact of the news, which apparently does not have anything to do with it: yesterday, the prosecutor of Arezzo arranged the closure of an E45 viaduct, because at risk collapse. How many viaducts we could have maintained if we had not been setting aside for years hundreds of millions of euros for a work of which to date not even one kilometer has been realized [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , nor a meter or even an inch? In fact, it continues to tell that the work is in the phase of realization and, according to the most imaginative, even in an advanced state of realization. Actually there is nothing: there are only a few kilometers of cross-section geognostic tunnels [[Applause from Senator Airola]] : 7 in Italy, 12 in France and a 6 km geognostic tunnel in France, in the axis of the future tunnel, but that is not, nor can it become a part of the tunnel. Of the 57 plus 57 kilometers of the double barrel of the base tunnel in thirty years nothing has been realized. But the trains from Turin to Paris go and bring people and goods because the Val di Susa is already crossed by a railway, used only for 16 percent of its capacity. With the TAV they would save only forty minutes on a five-hour journey and for this reason for thirty years the valley is militarized, an archaeological museum has been made inaccessible, people cannot move freely on their roads and cannot walk their woods. Some entrepreneurs are forced into absurdly long and winding routes to reach their own land. It is a part of territory with unique characteristics, home to three natural parks and two protected areas, fabulous places like the Goja del Pis, which risks the devastation to get goods increasingly scarce forty minutes in advance to Paris, but not tomorrow; if it works in twenty years. The experienced politicians who have ruled us in the last twenty years continue to tell that without this work (a double) Piedmont would be cut off, while in the meantime they have let the Morandi bridge collapse and reduced to the risk of collapse dozens of other bridges and overpass. They want to create a double in a narrow valley already crossed by rail and highway, while in other parts of Italy they lack the minimum infrastructure to define us as a civil country. Do you realize that it takes more than five hours to get from Palermo to Ragusa (260 km) and that Matera, the capital of culture, is not connected to Rome? Nobody wants to prevent the construction of great works, but those necessary for the development and well-being of all citizens and not only those who would gain from their construction! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u54	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 January 2017, the existence of 29 unwitting and innocent citizens was stolen from the lives of their loved ones in the massacre of the hotel Rigopiano, in the Municipality of Farindola, in the province of Pescara. On the occasion of tomorrow's second anniversary, our memory goes to the victims and our solidarity goes to the families. I speak of massacre and not of accident because what happened that day was not an unexpected event, but largely predictable, given the precedents of falling avalanches in those places and, as such, avoidable if the bodies in charge of the public administration, beginning with the summits of the Abruzzo Region, had been endowed in time, as they would have had to do according to the prescriptions of law, that simple and fundamental instrument for the prevention constituted by the map of avalanches. Unfortunately, this document has been forgotten by the regional government. For all this, together with numerous administrators and officials, the Public Prosecutor of Pescara has entered in the register of the suspects also three Presidents of the Abruzzo Region (Ottaviano Del Turco, Gianni Chiodi and Luciano D'Alfonso). Thus it seemed that the demands of justice demanded by the family members of the victims could be answered in a wide-ranging search of the truth about the massacre and its responsibilities, if and unexpectedly, with a decision that provoked protests of the family members of the victims and their lawyers, the same prosecutor of Pescara asked for the storage of the positions of the three former governors of the Region, subjects responsible for civil protection and emergencies, downloading the responsibilities for the failure to realize the same avalanche card on the technical officials of the Abruzzo Region only. The importance of the decision made by the Pescara Public Prosecutor prompts us to bring this to the attention of this Parliament. The map of avalanche location is, in fact, the only scientific tool for risk prevention avalanche as it identifies areas potentially affected by such phenomena. If the Abruzzo Region had adopted this instrument, it is possible to assume that on 18 January 2017 those we mourn today as victims would not have been there, as it would not have been possible to build a hotel structure in that high-risk area or at least, in the presence of the abundant snowfalls of those days, the same would have been evacuated in time. In truth, the regional administration had begun in years ago the procedures for the realization of that fundamental instrument, as confirmed by the former Councillor Gianfranco Giulante during the interrogation of warranty. It recalls in fact Giuliante that on 17 March 2014 with resolution of the Regional Council n. 170 has been approved the historical map of the avalanches and had been conferred the task for the realization and the subsequent dissemination of the map of localization. An important step had therefore been taken, but the regional council was dissolved in 2014 and the new Junta led by President Luciano D'Alfonso was settled, leaving Abruzzo without that fundamental instrument. Whose responsibility is it? Are there mere officials or regional political leaders who should have given the necessary direction and the impetus to implement this document? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the document of the investigation are reconstructed all the passages of this shameful non-compliance and in the act of opposition to the dismissal decided by the Public Prosecutor of Pescara lawyer Francesco Trapella, lawyer of the municipality of Farindola, denounces how, settled the Junta D'Alfonso, in the programming of the regional budget is disappeared any commitment of expenditure as far as planned. [[Call the president back.]] I'll finish, Mr. President. It is surprising, therefore, that the Public Prosecutor of Pescara has decided to request the storage for the position of the former governors and especially that of D'Alfonso, thus alienating the possibility to deepen the issue and to bring out any political responsibilities, responsibility whose identification is even more necessary in the light of the revelations contained in the inquiry of Antonio Massari, today published in the Quotidiano Fact, in which the incidence that President D'Alfonso has had is even more evident, according to the testimonies of his most direct collaborators, even in the chaotic and disastrous management of the machine... ( [[Comments of Senator Grimani).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u55	Conclude, Senator, because you have already dubbed the time at your disposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u56	DI NICOLA (M5S). One last sentence, President: I owe it to the people of Abruzzo and the victims of this massacre. For all this we ask that on the massacre of Rigopiano we return to investigate to three hundred sixty degrees the bureaucratic dysfunctions, but also on the responsibilities of regional political level. It is the only way to ensure that those involved are able to defend themselves, but also and above all to ensure full justice for victims and their families. Otherwise, Mr President, we could have the impression of a non-justifiable justice, even in the light of the findings of the investigation and of the same documents collected in the investigation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Don't let me take your word for it, because I'm not used to it. DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of Abruzzo, thank you for giving me a few more minutes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u57	Journalists are usually synthetic.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u60	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, Calabria, whose health care has been under police for a decade now, after the wretched parenthesis of the centre-right government led by Scopelliti, still in prison, is experiencing another bad political season, this time thanks to the current President Mario Oliverio, of the Democratic Party. Following an investigation coordinated by Attorney Gratteri, Oliverio was ordered by the GIP, confirmed by the review court, the precautionary measure of the obligation to stay in San Giovanni in Fiore, its municipality of residence. However, neither the presence of health commissioners appointed for about a month by Minister Grillo, nor the restrictive measure that prevents him from going to the institutional headquarters of Reggio Calabria and Catanzaro to carry out his political mandate, managed to dissuade him from proceeding unceasingly to the appointment of seven out of ten leaders to health care. All this without any passage, if not merely informative, from the ministerial commissioners. It happened last January 14 that the Calabrian junta proceeded to appoint, despite the mistrust of the Minister of Health, some of the architects of the financial failure and a new entry, the wife of Oliverio's consultant. As usual, to pay will be the Calabrians, rei to have unwisely given confidence in 2014 to a governor who is using the Region as his thing, in the desperate attempt to maintain his political career, through prebende and assignments to his faithful, in contempt of any principle of good conduct and discipline and honor prescribed by our Constitution. Calabria's health deficit has increased from €30 million to €160 million since 2014. A frightening figure, to a large extent determined by the casual management of health companies by those directors-general appointed by Oliverio, which he himself should have submitted to the revocation procedure imposed by Regional Law No 11 of 2004. Despite the complaints of Members of the Movimento 5 Stars, this obviously never happened. In fact, the Directors-General in question, despite the millions of losses caused, were even rewarded with bonuses of thousands of euros. Some of them have even been reconfirmed to lead health companies as commissioners. Meanwhile, despite an exponential increase in deficit, Calabrian health has reached the peaks from the third world, up to the plasters made with packaging cartons. In the face of this bad management, of course, the sanitary emigration from Calabria reaches 320 million expenditures per year, recording the worst data in Italy. And what do we have to say about the inevitable gifts to some private individuals within the political system, with the risk of mafia infiltrations and the interests of the thighs always around the corner? A dramatic framework, whose responsibilities are, of course, political. In view of the incalculable damages of Oliverio management, put in a corner and now out of control, I hope by Calabrian and elected parliamentarians in Calabria that, finally, has a whirlwind of personal pride and resigns. Alternatively, it would be appropriate to consider suspending it under the Severino law, since the effects of the restrictions of its precautionary measure are identical to those for which the law provides for the suspension from office. Calabria, after the change of course of 4 March, does not ask for money but only to be saved by its ruling and political class with interventions that put honesty, institutional loyalty, justice and work in the foreground. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u61	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-80.ana.u62	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 22 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.18 p.m.
