ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u3	On Thursday 7 February, at 8.15 a.m., the Guarantee Council shall be convened to proceed with its formation. Also on Thursday 7 February, at 9 a.m., the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender violence is convened for its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u6	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group, together with the other Opposition Groups, has long been calling for documents on the situation in Venezuela to be voted on. We have managed to obtain, albeit with difficulty, the presence of the Minister, but only for information and not communication and, consequently, without the opportunity for the Senate to vote. The Minister has already spoken to us in his first statements and then also in this House about the attempt to reach a common position of the European Union. We had widely suspected it, but these days we have the certainty that the common position of the European Union has not been reached because of the opposition or the veto of the Italian Government, in other words we have been told the opposite of the truth. From the Italian community in Venezuela we are constantly getting videos, letters and messages, asking us to support democracy, in the person of the President of the National Assembly, Juan Guaidó [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Casini, Margiotta and Marino]] , which according to the Constitution of Venezuela has proclaimed its role as interim president, to bring the country to democratic elections. We believe that it is seriously damaging to the dignity of Italy, the position that Italy itself has taken, preventing the European Union from taking a position at governmental level, but allowing the European Parliament, which unlike the Senate was able to vote, to vote by a large majority a resolution in which it recognizes Juan Guaidó as the legitimate President pro tempore of the Venezuelan Republic. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Malpezzi]] We therefore call for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to come as soon as possible so that we can vote on our motion, of course with the others who will be presented on the subject, because it is not acceptable for the Italian Government to take such positions, preventing Parliament from expressing itself, even more so since the positions taken by the Italian Government at international level and in particular at European Union level have been the opposite of what the Minister has said to Parliament and to the Italians all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Bonino and Casini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u9	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but unfortunately I will be insistent on this issue, like Senator Malan. I believe that reality is before everyone's eyes, Mr President. Our country internationally, in these hours, is aligned with four or five other countries, among which I remember Cyprus, Greece and Romania. Spain, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Poland and Hungary do different things than us. Our allies are always making the choice that Senator Malan urged and that the entire opposition has urged. Government communications have been indecent, because bureaucratic. In the face of the tragedy of thousands of compatriots suffering in Venezuela, we have heard the bureaucrat from our Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. At this point, further delays for Parliament are not acceptable. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of debate about the role of Parliament and someone wants to belittle it. This is the best way to reduce it: to make it useless, because it is incapable of expressing itself on fundamental foreign policy choices. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] We are defending not only the Venezuelan Parliament, we are defending the Italian Parliament, which must be expressed on this point. With regard to the motion that I tabled, together with my colleague Mr Zanda and other colleagues from the PD, together with my colleague Mr Monti and other colleagues, my request to the opposition is to put them all together, because it makes no sense to keep the opposition's motions divided when there is a common line. I would like to say one last thing to Mr Romeo, whom I admire and with whom I have often debated in this House: Salvini's tweets are important, but foreign policy is not done with tweets. Salvini is Vice Premier of the Italian Government and must join us if he wants to be consistent with what he is saying on Twitter from morning to evening. [[Applause from Senator Bonino]] If he agrees to overcome Maduro's regime and recognize, on the basis of a transitional article, Guaidó, to make elections immediately, because it is clear that we want elections to be held immediately in that country since there can be no interim regimes that last, well, if the League is consistent with what it declares, there are no "if" and "but": one must join the opposition in a motion that is aimed at restoring honour and credibility to Italian foreign policy, which has never been in such a low condition as today. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u12	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just two weeks ago in this House, we raised the question of how Italy should intervene to protect not only freedom and democracy in Venezuela, but also 2 million Italian countries, of which 200,000 with an Italian passport. In these two weeks exactly the opposite has happened: Foreign Minister Moavero stuttered here a position then contradicted, the next day, at the summit in Romania, in Bucharest. In these two weeks we have seen, for the first time in the history of the Italian Republic, radically change the location and foreign policy of our country without even one vote in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not Venezuela: this is the Italian Parliamentary Republic - I say this to the friends of the 5 Stars, whom they admire so much for the Venezuelan Republic - and here foreign policy is decided by Parliament, an expression of the vote of Italian citizens. As someone pointed out in an official statement, Italy cannot break, for the first time, its harmony with its European partners and its international allies: it cannot do so without a clear vote by Parliament. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You cannot do that - I tell the friends of the League - especially in the face of a few words, which I quote: ==References====External links== Maduro hungers, incarcerates and tortures his people. These words were said by Matteo Salvini a few minutes ago. Maduro hungers, incarcerates and tortures his people, of which 2 million are Italian. What are you doing? Do you have the Diktat of a parliamentary minority, who has taken over some key ministries and speaks on behalf of a country that does not know enough and speaks without a parliamentary vote? In front of a Vice Premier who says that Maduro hungers, incarcerates and tortures his people, of course, there is also another Vice Premier in Pectore, the citizen of Di Battista, who says exactly the opposite. How long can this situation last? We call for account to be taken of what has happened in recent weeks and the isolation of the Italian Government, together with Greece and Cyprus. Certainly Cyprus, the safe of Russian capitals; certainly Greece, whose economy is in the hands of China and can no longer move. But this is Italy; it is neither Cyprus nor Greece. And Italy must also protect Italians in Venezuela, as well as its dignity and international alliances. If you want to change this country's foreign policy, have the courage to vote for it in Parliament, in the light of the sun and not in the background. If you want to change it, you do it. Otherwise I ask the friends of the League to be consequent with what Vice Prime Minister Salvini declares and to present and vote with us a parliamentary motion that commits Parliament and the Italian Government to recognize, as the Venezuelan Constitution provides, the interim President Guaidó, so that Venezuela can vote, but not by dissolving the National Assembly as Maduro wants, but by truly electing its President of the Republic and I hope that this will happen with free and sovereign votes. The League cannot continue further in this double furnace policy. It must decide, also in Parliament, what Italy's position is and it must do so here today, before it is too late. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u15	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, we were ready last week, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs came and said that Italy would join the European Union. A few minutes after firmly stating that position, it was denied by the League and the Movimento 5 Stars. We are ready to work together with all those, not just the opposition forces, to make it clear which side they are on. I have also heard the words of Senator Urso who took up Mr Salvini's statements. I want to say this very clearly: because we are not yet a social democracy, but a parliamentary democracy, enough with Facebook posts and Twitter statements; come here in Parliament and take a clear and clear position with us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since last week things have changed, indeed they have changed. There was a very strong position of the representatives of the Italian-Venetian community, directed to the main Italian institutions, with which they clearly described their situation and said on which side they wanted to stand, that is the hundreds of thousands of people who came to the square and asked for freedom. As well as the main European countries, those with whom we have always worked and with which we have faced the main challenges at European level: France, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom have made it clear which side they are on. They recognized the President of the Guaidó National Assembly, who under Article 233 of the Venezuelan Constitution is the one who must lead to new presidential elections. One cannot joke about this, with ambiguity and only talking about elections. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Maduro also spoke of elections, underestimating them, with contempt sometimes even of the ridiculous, and saying: I am ready to make elections, yes, but of the only regularly elected assembly, which is the National Assembly led by Guaidó. Italy must make it clear on which side it is and must say it in here, in the parliamentary classrooms, because it must assume a huge responsibility. Italy, with this Government, broke European solidarity when it was able to speak with one voice. When there is such a radical change in a country's foreign policy, it is not done with statements via social media and via Twitter, but it is done in Parliament, putting its face and taking responsibility for those choices. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So I hope, Mr President, that we can have an in-depth debate and then vote very clearly and say which side Italy wants to be on. We know this: we want to be on the side of democracy. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u18	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had this debate two weeks ago, as has been mentioned. What I want to say is that the times are tight and all efforts, diplomatic and pressure, must be done first and foremost so that the army remains in the barracks, because first of all a civil war and a further massacre for a people already tortured must be avoided. In addition to this, it is necessary to prevent inconsulted external interventions (you have already done so in other places and did not bring it very well). We must negotiate an exit for Maduro and pressure must be placed on President Guaidó for rapid elections. I repeat: for quick elections. This is a possible strategy, which can be acceptable, which offers an escape and prevents a bloodbath from the Italians first: are the 200,000 Italians in Venezuela B-series Italians? Get on with it a little bit. Get on with it a little bit. Finally, I believe that this Parliament must demand the opportunity to express itself on how we want to contribute to tackling this crisis. It is not an interim government forever (it is not a repetition of Al Sisi, to be understood), but these three measures constitute a possible strategy in respect of human rights and democracy. I therefore ask that the Government, by whoever is represented, come to this House and accept a debate on motions. Time is running out, and I wouldn't want us to be fighting with tanks in the street and with more blood in the squares. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1018. I call Senator Toffanin to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, representatives of the Government, we are once again faced with a question of reference. Entering immediately in the substance, from the very content of the norm it can be found the nonsusistence of the requirement of the extraordinary urgency of the provision, which as a decree-law should have, while the genericity of the title implies indeterminateness, with the risk of understanding any kind of intervention in the occupational and social security matters: a bit like happened a few days ago with the decree-simplification law, which had become an omnibus measure. The measure under consideration provides for 24 implementing rules, 15 of which without a time limit, and requires successive and multiple acts: decrees of the President of the Republic, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministerial decrees, agreements with the unified Conference, administrative acts of the Municipalities, measures of the INPS, the INAIL and the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL). All these references, as has already been reiterated by the Constitutional Court's ruling No 22 of 2012, clearly conflict with the requirement of urgency. I mention just a couple of them as an example, just to get to the bottom of it. Article 3, paragraph 7, leaves the way of providing the income of citizenship to a decree of the Minister of Labour and social policies to be adopted by July 29, 2019: how is it possible to reconcile the payment of the income from April 1 if the modalities of delivery of the same can be defined up to two months later? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is truly incongruous and above all there is neither necessity nor urgency. Article 5, relating to request, recognition and grant of benefit, paragraph 2 requires a decree of the Minister of Labour and Social Policies to identify the modalities of submission of the single replacement declaration (SSU) for the purpose of the indicator of the equivalent economic situation (ISEE) without indication of the timing. But how is it possible not to provide information on the timing of the presentation of these models? Here too, urgency without a concomitant time-limit. And then there are all the other articles, about which I fly over for obvious reasons of time. The other aspect of the preliminary ruling concerns the invasion of the legislative and regulatory competences of the regions, especially where the decree-law intervenes on the functions and tasks of the employment centres and on the organization of the labour market. A representative example is the so-called figure of the navigators, who obviously think they are inserted in the center for the job, without however that there has been no prior agreement with the Regions: therefore we go to invade the competences of the Regions. Let's not forget that the citizenship income management system provides for a powerful processing of sensitive and particular personal data, which must be shared through the interconnection of databases and the circulation between a plurality of subjects, such as employment centers, CAFs and municipalities, but also the medium and small municipalities, where the citizen is not a number, but a known person. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And then again, with the training agencies, the employment agencies, the INPS and others. It is about the acquisition and processing of data suitable for revealing guidance, ideologies and health status of people, therefore all sensitive data, going contrary to the principles of constitutionally provided freedom. Citizenship income is a purely welfare measure that offers limited opportunities to provide an incentive to work. This measure increases the number of dependent citizens, yes, but from the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Nor is poverty countered, because the studies that have followed and which have been presented in the hearings these days have emphasized that the scale of equivalence with which income benefit is calculated is not good, because the individual is benefited and not the household. Families with more than four children are completely disadvantaged. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Therefore, work is not encouraged, nor is poverty countered, with the income of citizenship. There is only the certainty that poverty is stabilized, codified and extended perennially to the weakest sections of society, moreover with an unsustainable increase for the middle class, on which - excuse me, but it must be remembered - the greatest fiscal weight of the financing of citizenship income will fall when the use of the deficit will no longer be practicable. Let us remember that it is only through the deficit that citizenship income is financed and we also remember that unfortunately we are in recession - which we had foreseen - and that we have safeguard clauses of 52 billion over the next two years. So, at some point, the use of the deficit will be severely limited. Forza Italia has always been in fact in support of the economically disadvantaged and weakest sections of the country. Let us remember that the Berlusconi Government, in 2001, was responsible for the first increase in minimum pensions, the social card and the baby bonus, to mention just a few examples. Let us also remember that the Berlusconi Government has managed to create more than 1.5 million jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What have you been doing these months? With the decree-law dignity you have lost almost 600,000, other than incentive to work! Perhaps it would make more sense to use the resources allocated to enable companies to assume and create that virtuous circle that only productivity growth can allow and guarantee. Instead, you, as mentioned above, have lost 600,000 job opportunities in Italy with the aim of countering the precarious. That's a good result. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are faced with a decree-law which must necessarily start in April, but in fact there are no conditions for doing so, starting with the administrative time to proceed with the strengthening of the structures of the employment centres, which are absolutely incompatible with the time allowed for the start of the measure. Who has participated with me in the cognitive survey in the centres for employment abroad and in Italy knows well, because we have touched with hand the reality of the centers for the employment of our territory and we cannot think that they are ready at the level of structures, computerization, resources, not only of staff, in order to be able to support the income of citizenship beginning in April. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If the income is paid before it is possible to build up the employment centres, then the beneficiary of the income will also benefit from it, certifying the welfare substance. There will also be a high risk of congested employment centres for those who have access to them even if they do not receive the same income. I remember that the Regions are waiting for provisions to proceed with competitions to recruit the 4,000 employees defined by the last budget law, but the contests provide for long periods. This measure will certainly guarantee income to those who work in black and also to immigrants and the technical report on the article reads, with reference to non-EU countries, that in the database ISEE is not able to differentiate the conditions of foreigners for the type of residence permit, nor for the duration of residence. So, ladies and gentlemen, income will be open to everyone and that is what the article of the law says. As far as sanctions are concerned, I would remind you that the former are only reminders, so there is a desire to continue to provide income to those who incur in criminal proceedings and as far as early pensions are concerned, these will certainly fall on future generations. The unconstitutional aspect that I would like to recall, however, is that the ransom of educational qualifications is provided for those under the age of 45, but why for those who are fifty, for example, is it not possible to redeem the degree? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You will have to give us some answers on this too. This measure of fact is out of place, because urgency, complexity and heterogeneity do not lead us to think that we can always use the decree-law as an instrument to legislate. It has become an ordinary tool, it compresses parliamentary activity and debate. We want more and more time and, above all, we have realised that you are not ready to vote on this measure. I remember that Italy is a democratic Republic based on work. That is what the first article of our Constitution says. I ask the government and the majority to keep that in mind. [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u21	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u24	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, we agree with the remarks made by Forza Italia that, once again, this Government resorts to the decree of urgency, reducing parliamentary times to a measure which, on the other hand, required to the full the role and work of Parliament. This is a completely new approach for our system, because it links labour policies to the fight against poverty and needs a more cautious attitude. Indeed, in yesterday's and today's hearings, many have explained that the timing for the start of the measure is absolutely incompatible with its functioning. The centres for employment, which are called upon to perform a central function, do not function today. The INPS has explained to us that it needs time to equip itself with the tools of verification of the securities assets of the income applicants. Istat has evidenced how the criteria of distribution will penalize the families, that instead are the ones that need the most tools in order to get out of conditions of difficulty. Then there is the whole chapter related to the figure of the navigators, to the methods of recruitment, to the fact that they need an adequate time for their training, to the indeterminateness of the functions that they will have to carry out in the centres for employment. I leave out all the other issues of unconstitutionality that are already ahead: from the requirements on stay in Italy, to the maximum sentence of six years, higher than the one foreseen for the false committed by an officer, to the norm on the redemption of the degree with a discount reserved for the under forty-five, which is foreshadowed as a violation of the constitutional principle of equal treatment. In essence, it seems that the haste with which this measure is to be adopted is linked more to reasons of an electoral nature than to reasons of common sense. This hastily runs the risk of frustrating a measure for which Italy has increased its indebtedness at a non-positive stage due to the development of its economy. Our Group will vote in favour of the question referred by Forza Italia. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u27	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Brothers of Italy are very critical of the income of citizenship because it is now clear to everyone - the Confindustria, the trade unions and the Parliamentary Budget Office have denounced it - that this is a measure that is likely to represent a serious incentive to undeclared work. All studies in this field teach that citizenship income must never exceed 50% of the minimum wage of the country in which it is established. It is so, in fact, in all European countries, except, of course, in Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, 45% of South income in our country is even less than 780 euros. What an incredible incentive to stop working will represent the income of citizenship for all these people who have to work a whole month, perhaps paying for gasoline and travel, when instead the State will give 780 euros to stay at home quiet, maybe with some work in black to supplement the income that gives them the State! Colleagues, the Finance Guard certifies that 40% of the ISEE statements, i.e. statements on which the citizenship income will be paid, are not truthful. The truth is that the only jobs that will be created by this measure are those of the 6,000 so-called navigators, who among other things will be hired in a precarious way, overlapping with the employees of the employment centres, creating enormous problems, as the President himself said a few hours ago. In fact, therefore, it is not an income of citizenship, but an income that will go largely to those who are not citizens. This is the most serious aspect and I would like to invite my colleagues from the League and the Movimento 5 Stars to think about this. In this measure there is a great scam, a huge scam, represented by that norm in which it is expected that, in order to obtain the income of citizenship, it will take ten years of residence in the Italian State. This is a great hoax, you all know very well; our legislative offices have already certified it, giving us a very precise memory in which it is made clear that the limit of ten years is clearly unconstitutional. There are already numerous judgments of the Constitutional Court that say that such a high limit is unreasonable, on the contrary, that a limit over five years is unreasonable, because it is a limit that goes beyond what is foreseen to obtain the same long-term resident permit. The limit of ten years, therefore, is written on the sand by the sea; it is a limit that does not exist. The first African who will land on our coasts, when he asks for the income of citizenship and if he sees it denied, will impose the denial before the Constitutional Court, which will give him reason on the basis of his copious jurisprudence already existing today. What will be the result of all this, dear friends of the League? I would ask you to consider this: the result will not be that the limit will fall from ten to five years, but that the limit will fall from ten to zero years. Any outsider who is on Italian soil even for one day will be able to ask for the income of citizenship: this is the result of your demagogy and the madness of this measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You're such a yacht! But what boats? When it is known in Africa that the very day you arrive in Italy you are entitled to 780 euros, from Africa you will not leave with the boats, but swimming to get to Italy and get the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] That will be the result of this measure, and that is why we will vote in favour of the question. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u30	SACCONE (FI-BP). Mr President, more than speaking of a preliminary ruling on constitutionality, as Mrs Toffanin has done much better than I have, I would like to speak of a moral reference. Mr President, I want to talk about the false promises of Mr Di Maio and Mr Di Battista - because that is what this is - of the 10 million poor Italians. The last time of these 10 million poor Italians spoke Di Maio to the "Facto Quotidiano" in January 2018; then, once arrived to the Government, the 10 million poor Italians became just 5.6 million and, finally, with a bit of ink, with a decree-law, we discovered that the poor Italians are just over 2 million. I want to tell Vice President Di Maio that you can't cancel 8 million Italian citizens with the special effects of the presentation made last night. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Don't fool yourself. We are in solidarity with those 8 million Italians you have deceived, raising in them hopes and illusions that you have then turned into anguish. That's what you did last night. I want to make that very clear. Those 8 million Italians simply trusted you and did not believe that you could be the great-grandchildren of Achilles Lauro. Do you remember the exchange vote and the loose shoes? They hoped that you were not, and - instead - they were able to verify by hand that before them there were the merchants of the vow of mass exchange. This is what you are, given what you have done and are doing with the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It was well explained yesterday, in the Commission's Bureau of Presidency, public and private work, social security, during the hearings held. The decree-law under consideration will not create any jobs. If the average salary of a young person under the age of thirty-five in the South is 740 euros net, how can you think he can go looking for a job? But how can you think that? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This is a purely electoral manoeuvre. That's what we're talking about. There are no policies to support work or increase investment. You could invest in school and training, because that's where future generations are built. You could invest in birth support policies to create jobs. You could have reduced the tax wedge. You could support companies. Yesterday in the Commission public and private work, social security there was a Caporetto. Those who have to invest and create jobs in this country have told you that there will be no more and better jobs with the measures taken. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I heard Di Maio spoke directly - you're used to talking to the generals now - to the General Commander of the Finance Guard, asking him to control the smart guys. By Maio, you must know that in Italy there are 40,000 interventions of the Finance Guard, over a whole year and for all events. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You didn't give the Finance Guard a euro, an agent or an extra means. It's all fucked up. In Italy they will be able to ask for the income of citizenship - I also tell the public, since sometimes we involve it - as many as 20,000 total evaders present in our country. As many as 20,000 of these gentlemen will be eligible to claim citizenship income. Allow me to appeal to my friends and colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, some of whom I have known in recent months. I know their history and their education. I know of the sacrifices they made, first of all for training and - then - finding a job. But how do you get the political line dictated by a gentleman who doesn't even understand Vespa's line that compares him to Che Guevara and he feels that way? [[Applause from the FI-BP and FdI groups]] It is by this gentleman that you are being dictated by the political line. My son would call him Taddeo the explorer, other than Che Guevara (I would add de noantri). To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, have a serious leap of dignity. Soon we will be discussing the bill to halve the number of parliamentarians and the salary. If any Taddeo tells us the line, then let us delete Parliament, because we have arrived at fruit. I do not allow any gentleman to indicate what the political line is for those who should dignifiedly express popular sovereignty. Mr President, regardless of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality, there is a moral reference. There is no doubt, in fact, that with the tricks you can do so many things, but behind every trick there is the deception. You have perpetrated the greatest deception against the Italian people: the lie. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u31	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Giuseppe Garibaldi) of Macerata and the representatives of the Foundation (Magna Carta) who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u34	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, on the question of constitutionality, I would like to mention a number of issues, which perhaps everyone should be present. It is the numbers of poverty in our country, which has tripled in the last ten years due to ineffective policies and the great crisis, while at the same time billionaires have tripled. This means that inequality in our country is almost a structural fact. In front of these numbers we think, as senators of the Mixed, Free and Equal Group, that a tool to fight poverty, tending to a minimum of redistribution, is important. That is why, Mr President, as you will recall, we had already tabled legislative proposals in the last parliamentary term on guaranteed minimum income and citizenship income. Many senators and many of us had already joined the campaign for dignity income in 2013, promoted by Libera and many other associations. It is clear, therefore, that we place ourselves on another side compared to those who oppose, in a totally preliminary and injurious way, an instrument such as the one called in this place "citizen income" (called, because then the issues are a bit different). Very often those who have this preliminary position - we have heard from the echoes in this House - do so from positions, I regret to say it (and I use a word that someone might like), conservative and even regressive, as we have heard in some accents. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we are not opposed to this instrument and the decree-law. We want to work and get to the point, because there are many issues - we are announcing this and you will see our amending work - that do not work. We want to stay on the subject. On the other hand, if we are to talk about constitutionality, I would refer to Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that it is the task of the Republic to remove obstacles to equality; therefore, appropriate instruments must be put in place. The problem with the decree-law in question is that there is an overlap of issues, which risk wrecking the instrument itself. The 2017 resolution in the European Parliament also indicated to the Member States that a number of measures should be put in place, in particular those related to citizenship income. But in this case a number of issues overlap: on the one hand, we want to guarantee dignity, intervening on a broad range, from absolute poverty to relative poverty; on the other hand, this is a tool to work, all conditioned by the question of work, with a series of issues that we will assess on the merits. We will see what it means to offer properly, but this will be part of the work on the substance. A superimposition, therefore, with an instrument of workfare; above all, a superimposition in our opinion too strong, of a family nature more than familiar. Think also of the work pact extended to the whole family: we believe that there are many problems that will need to be addressed, and we would like to take action to help improve the measure itself. The other fundamental issue, as the European Parliament resolution also said, is that this instrument must be put in place by strengthening the welfare system, which we know perfectly well is one of our country's very serious problems. I am thinking only of my city, where there is a social worker for every city that has to look at 1000 people: you understand well that we need to put in place an instrument flanked by a real strengthening of the welfare system, the system of social services and taking charge. Not everyone can be - maybe! - to work: there will be a part that needs, rather, inclusive policies, support, even if this is another issue. With this instrument we try to intervene, but there are a number of very serious problems that will have to be addressed. I have mentioned some of them; I am also thinking of the problem of residence where - you will see this - it will be necessary to intervene; just think of how we can intervene with regard to the homeless. This concerns and will increasingly affect this situation, and we come to the task of this House and Parliament all over again. We hope that this time we can really do work within the Commission to intervene on the inconsistent parts in order to improve the measure and make it effective and efficient. If, on the other hand, driving is just the rush and the objective of collecting from the electoral point of view, we certainly are not there. On the contrary, on the comparison of the substance in order to improve the measure, eliminating inconsistencies and overlaps, which risk making it shipwreck as an instrument, we give our readiness. For all these reasons, we shall vote against the preliminary constitutionality. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u37	Mr Laus (PD). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of separate arguments from colleagues from Forza Italia, who have submitted the question for a preliminary ruling, we are voting in favour only in order not to proceed with the examination of the measure, in accordance with Article 78 (3) of the Constitution. If you cannot be chaste, at least be cautious: here you continue to act with shame. It is thought that we forgot when minority forces - today in the government - thundered against the use of law decrees as a useful shortcut to pass the measures. That this text does not have the characteristics of necessity and urgency provided for in our Constitutional Charter is quite clear. The need is only that - all political - of parties that in recent months have overpowered the bellies of consensus and that now realize how much hunger in those bellies they have provoked. The same can be said of the urgency, falsely declared by the Government, because it responds to the logic of an electoral calendar without days of rest, instead of the logic of feasibility and effectiveness imposed by the socio-economic context of the country. How can we be credible when we call for urgency and then build a measure that presupposes 24 implementing rules, 15 of which are without time limit and bound to successive decrees of the President of the Republic, of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministerial decrees, pronouncements of INPS, INAIL and ANPAL and a series of administrative acts that will have to carry out the Municipalities? [[Applause from the PD Group]] One cannot and in fact is not credible a government that considers the Constitution an optional, so much so that it is also okay to put in the same measure the income of citizenship, the norms on quota 100 and the new discipline in the matter of games. Long live the homogeneity of materials! Colleagues and colleagues, I believe I can say that the introduction of measures to combat poverty and inequality and measures to promote job creation, increased competitiveness and social inclusion are a concern of all the members of this House, by majority and opposition. On behalf of my Group, however, I say that we will not go anywhere if Parliament is forced to continue along the path of the 'Decree La Qualunque', because that is what it is today. The weakness of the approach of the Government's proposal goes hand in hand with the weakness of the contents: a arranged combination, which risks increasing the gap between sections of the population, increasing the social tension. The 780 euros of citizenship income, as they have been thought, will end up being just a mirage before the eyes of the real poor, while they could turn out to be a bargain for the irreducible of tax evasion and undeclared work. The main parameters, represented by the ISEE to zero and a rent of at least 280 euros per month, will turn into a wall on the way of access to the measure by the carriers of a real social need, because a minimum deviation will suffice to determine the drastic reduction of the benefit. Even in the transition from the income of inclusion (REI) to the income of citizenship, the most numerous families will lose to us, because the benefit will no longer grow after the third child. In Article 2, the requirement of residence for at least ten years, two of which continue, cuts out nuclei already started on paths of inclusion through the REI: an exclusion that significantly contrasts with the principles enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and Adolescence, which Italy has ratified by law n.176 of 27 May 1991. There is no breath of attention to those who are really the last. There are about 50,000 homeless people in Italy and it is essential to expressly provide for the equalization of the fictitious residence with the traditional one. In this decree-law children and women are neglected. The limit of forty-five years for the redemption of the degree is then clearly unconstitutional and even children know it, because the principle of equality is grossly violated. The same reasoning applies to initiatives to encourage companies to assume, since the rigidity of the conditions imposed by the decree-law, i.e. full-time and indeterminate contracts, will neutralize the advantage represented by the discount on the contribution. Not to mention that it pretends not to know that in some parts of the country, such as the South, but not only, at least 90% of agricultural contracts are due to expire and that rigidities will certainly not unblock the situation. And, as if that were not enough, the government takes advantage of it to exercise itself in the classic politics of the two ovens: with one hand hangs the enterprises and with the other institutionalizes the precarious state, activating the hiring of more than 6,000 workers ANPAL, the so-called navigators, that they will all be fixed-term workers waiting for stabilization. But the contradiction of contradictions - I will never stop saying this - concerns the abandonment of poor workers, those who today, with a forced part time or even a full time, earn less at the end of the month than the amount expected for the income of citizenship. For them only propaganda chatter so far, when instead the goal of the minimum wage, in line with the profile boasted by Minister Di Maio, had to be reached at least at the same time, if not before, of any reasoning on the income of citizenship. To the usual, the government chooses the commercial instead of structural measures, excludes instead of including; it applies to the income of citizenship, as well as to the share of one hundred, designed exclusively for the benefit of those who can count on a long and constant professional career. This benefits certain categories of workers at the expense of others and some areas of the country at the expense of others. This divisive and short-term policy will be paid mainly by our young people, and not only because the excessive increase in the number of pensions, which has been put on general taxation, will end up in debt to future generations and discourage the creation of a new enterprise capable of giving employment. It will be the young people who will pay, especially because it is not on a new culture of work that this Government wants to measure itself, but on the very fragile idea of making ends meet. The prospect is here and now; a perspective that we really do not feel the need or the urgency to pursue. The last boss you dedicated to the games. On the one hand you fight gambling and on the other hand you deliver to Italy, with the behaviors you are putting in place, the greatest gambling on the shoulders of future generations! It is for these reasons that we are voting in favour of the proposal tabled by my colleagues. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u40	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I did not want to speak, but I will do so briefly, because some considerations made in this House cannot remain without a response from the majority forces and certainly do not remain without an answer from those who proposed citizenship income almost from the first day of their presence in this House in the last parliamentary term. The question referred for a preliminary ruling, rather as a prejudice, is the position of all the political forces that are today opposed to this measure. The 5 Star Movimento was criticized in 2013, when it proposed this measure, believing that there were no covers and that it was not necessary for the country. Then, over the years, poverty has increased and many other political forces have instead wanted to talk about the need for a guaranteed minimum income. The majority did so in the last legislature, with the REI, and did so in the electoral campaign - but, you know, in the election campaign there are those who promise and do not maintain and there are those who, like this Government, promised and today maintains - the President of Forza Italia, who promised a minimum income of 1,000 euros to everyone. To feel today that political force that makes interventions of this kind seems really strange to me. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] To those who, like Senator De Petris, have made a reasoning entering much into the merit of the provision, I say that it is true that the welfare services of the municipalities are in suffering. Perhaps, if we manage to reduce poverty in the country, giving some people the opportunity to arrive at the end of the month and in the meantime to form themselves and find a new job, we will also be able to reduce the suffering of those care services [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , who will still need to deal with those who will not be able to access income or those who, for example, are not in a position to work and will sign the social inclusion pact. I have heard of the issue of wages, saying that the minimum wage of this country, indeed the average wage of this country, is close to income. But we cannot ask this question and ask ourselves the main question: why is the salary so low in this country? What are the responsibilities of Confindustria, the trade unions and this political class, which has produced this situation? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That is the question we have to ask ourselves, not if the citizenship income is too high. I've heard about the issue of black work and smarts: there will be, but it's not that, because there are bank robberies, you have to close the bank counters. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You have to put the banks in a position to be able to protect themselves from robberies. I have also heard of boats and immigrants, who will be called back to our country because the income of citizenship will be paid from the first day. Beyond the fact that the normative mechanism does not foresee this, we realize that, if the bar of tolerance in this country has lowered, it is because we have not been able to collect the issues of the last and we have created a war among the poor in this country, that we today, also thanks to the income of citizenship, try to fight? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It is therefore clear that we will vote no to the question of a preliminary ruling and we will continue to fight for citizenship income to become law as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u41	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) referring to the bill no. 1018. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u42	The next item is the debate on draft constitutional law Nos. 214, 515 and 805. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, whether he intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u43	Mr President, in view of the enthusiasm of the members of the general debate, I would like to refer to the written report and not to the whole report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u44	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u45	Mr President, I have to say that we are starting very badly, because for constitutional reform the rapporteur does not even consider explaining what has been done in the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Instead of tabling an amendment which totally changes its content and concerns something of little importance, the Senate of the Republic, and does not think that it explains why. He'll explain later, for Christ's sake, but we have a first essay of what we don't want. Others hear them from the media and from the continuous statements of the representatives of the majority and especially of the Movimento 5 Stars. Forza Italia was the main protagonist, among other things, together with today's rapporteur, of the draft law which, following all the not simple parliamentary process, led to the parliamentary adoption of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians between 2003 and 2005. Then there was a referendum, with which the oppositions of then for a number of reasons took sides for the no, and so this reduction did not take place. Even during the first part of the last parliamentary term we supported the attempt to reform carried out by the Renzi Government, although we felt the original text was extremely indigestible; we hoped to achieve significant changes, but in the end these, if there were, were worsening and, consequently, we did not finally vote for that reform, but it also came to an end. Now comes a new proposal from the current majority that provides for a totally media act, as almost all the measures, proposals and declarations of the current Government. That is, we do not want to identify the appropriate number of Members, but to indicate the round number: it is like saying that a sick person must have either 30 or 40 fevers. All intermediate measures are not good, because it takes an easy number to remember to tell around the meetings and then make it 200 and 400. While an arrangement with 630 MPs and 315 senators (or 600 and 300) made sense, because in any case the Senate remained with an adequate number of members while having half of the Chamber, going down to 200 senators would present serious problems in the work of the Commission, but this can be remedied. What we do not accept is to do at the last moment in this House, with amendments tabled - as far as we know - by surprise of the additional wizards to satisfy completely peculiar and completely specific demands: in other words, for the Constitution they are all the same but someone is more equal than the others, as in the novel "The Farm of Animals" by Orwell. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] However, even if we are favourable towards this measure, hoping that it will be improved, we absolutely want to strongly denounce the fact that one account is the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament, another is the attempt to reduce the Parliament and, with it, the democracy of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Ferrari and Malpezzi]] This understanding is not carried forward with the draft law under consideration, but with a number of other measures, for example the draft constitutional law to introduce the proposed referendum without quorum, as the authoritative (as it plays an important role) Vice-President of the Di Maio Council, who, after the House the rapporteur accepted the amendments aimed at introducing at least one quorum (even if it is too low), went back to saying that we do not need politicians and that we can make the laws ourselves. It sounds like Hugo Chavez or Nicolas Maduro is talking, and we don't need that. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]] We do not need someone who says he does not need democracy, because so much he interprets what the people want, possibly through the mediation of social media and referendums where he will dominate those who have the power, those who have the possession or control of the media, on which the current majority is giving much to do. If it were so efficient on the revival of the economy as on the systematic employment of jobs, particularly in the media, we will have a growth rate to envy the rest of the world instead of being in recession, with the rise of unemployment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The remedy is the same that was carried out in Venezuela by the regime before Chavez and now by Maduro, which is very dear to the Movimento 5 Stars, so much to prevent the Italian Parliament and Italy from being able to express themselves and in any case to express themselves for democracy. The remedy is to create fake employment, pull out money from the state and create fake employment. In Venezuela they have done so increasing the civil servants, more than doubling the employees of the oil agency of state, without being able to increase (in fact worsening) the level of production and increasing the costs. The result was that Venezuela, the richest country in oil reserves in the world (more than Saudi Arabia), became the first oil dependent (98 percent when only 77 percent of Saudi Arabia's economy is based on oil), destroying all other productions. Here we are heading in the same direction, thanks to the fact that Parliament is considered a useless accessory, or rather a target for the propaganda of vicious hostility to democracy as such. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] This propaganda with Parliament must remind us that there are countries where there are parliaments, or at least bodies called parliaments, but they are not democratic. But there is not one country that is democratic and where there is freedom in which there is no Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And reducing a Parliament to a target with the referendum without quorum or with the ballot between the proposal of the pueblo and that of the Parliament, is a way to use Parliament solely as a target. Last legislature, together with the League and the 5 Star Movement, we waged a strong battle against the reform that had been proposed by the then majority. And we have heard sentences, in particular from the Movimento 5 Stars, which denoted a great parliamentary spirit, which we shared: respect for Parliament and so on. We discover today that, without prejudice to the good faith of many colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League, without prejudice to the good faith of individuals, the general plan was to reject that reform just because they had not done it. Because now we want to make far more radical reforms that make Parliament useless, indeed a target against which to direct the discontent of the people, who have good reason to be. In fact, when a country is badly governed; when a country is governed only by the search for the ephemeral consent of this or that small category, saying yes to everyone and then making shameful budget laws like the one we have seen recently, the economy of a country can only get worse and can only go very badly. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let us not deceive ourselves: Italy is a strong country, a great economy, one of the world's leading industrialized countries; but badly governed can go from bad to worse very quickly. It is enough to see the speed with which we have moved from modest and insufficient growth to a stable recession. So we say: it is good to make reforms that make Parliament's action more efficient, more effective, more identifiable. Parliament has the irreplaceable role of giving transparency to decisions. The laws must be made here and voted here, not because we are necessarily better than others, but primarily because we have been elected by the people and, secondly, because there is transparency here; we know who votes for it and who votes for it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] When the budget law is passed without the possibility of changing a detail and without being able to vote, transparency completely ceases, everything is decided in the Palaces, in secret and with shameful negotiations, which with such a weakened Parliament risk being prey to private interests and even foreign powers, which have easy access to the palaces of power while they would have much more difficulty in approaching every parliamentarians representing the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u46	She's registered to speak Senator Malpezzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u47	Mr President, I must say that I am very sorry that President Calderoli has refused to give up his speech. I regret that I am absolutely convinced that President Calderoli has a great deal of competence in this matter and, thanks to this, perhaps he could have convinced me of the good faith behind the choice they are making with this constitutional bill. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Because it really takes a great work of conviction. I was also reading carefully today the statements of Minister Fraccaro, who said that the number of Members of Parliament will finally be reduced; a reform that the citizens have been asking us for a long time and that center-right and centre-left have always promised without ever realizing. Then, Mr President, through you, I would like to remind Mr Fraccaro that perhaps communications should be given in the correct way. We do not have any taboos with regard to the reduction in the number of Members, so much so that we are the ones who proposed it in the last parliamentary term, but they did not propose the reduction in the number of Members tout court, because they are absolutely aware that this measure is not enough to make a system work. I would also like to say this to you, Mr Calderoli: reducing the number of parliamentarians and leaving everything as it is to say that bicameralism is working, it means that you are convinced that the system that exists today, in which the two Chambers do exactly the same work, is a system of great efficiency that allows our democracy to speed up and speed up the decision-making and the adoption of laws. I say this because it is news of a few minutes ago that you put yet another trust in the House - I tell the members of the government - just you, who said that you would never rule with trust. If you are doing so, it is simply because you have noticed that the timing that you are trying to impose cannot respect them and this is because the characteristic of equal bicameralism is that you have the two Chambers that perform exactly the same work, symmetrically, with the consequence (as happens in so many circumstances) that one of the Chambers does not work and remains impaled and ready to wait for the decisions that the other branch of Parliament, the one that had the burden and the honor to face the measure first assumed. Let us remove the veil of hypocrisy: it is not by reducing the number of Members who will be able to improve such a system. If you want to get away from the talk of trust and make sure that Parliament really has a role to play, then give one House a certain function and another one, more specific and more suitable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I tell you, President Calderoli, that you are the masters of federalism and autonomy. You have an opportunity today, which is, together with the reduction in the number of Members, to really create a House that can be that of self-government. You have a Minister for Autonomy and you are practically not trying to do anything to ensure that that autonomy that you are so demanding and that so many of us claim can be made effective and efficient by a House with representatives who take care of that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this because it seems to me that there really is a series of contradictions in the work you are doing. We have seen the dramatic days of the budget law, in which I do not think it was so much the number of Members who blocked Parliament's work, but to a large extent the inability of the Government and then certainly the system to which we are subjected. It is history of a few days ago what you have made us live. Other, however, was what we would have liked to see from you, because we expected it since one of the two forces that are part of the government team is the one that entered Parliament years ago to make it more transparent, to put the work of the parliamentarians at the centre, to make public every action by the representatives of the citizens. Well, you are the ones who want to take away the role of representation because basically you think it is simply a matter of numbers. Dear President Calderoli, I would like to address you as rapporteur for the measure. What I expect from this Government, which claims to be the defender of Italian citizens, is that it has the great will to listen to all the representatives of Italian citizens, because when we put our constitutional reform at stake, we were absolutely certain of one thing and we still want to claim it: that constitutional reforms are not done alone, that constitutional reforms are not of the majority; constitutional reforms, which concern all citizens (because the Constitution is of everyone) should be done with the contribution of everyone, with a really broad debate, in which all the political forces that are part of Parliament have the opportunity to express their opinion and to bring their own contribution. It is with this attitude - precisely because constitutional reforms are of all people - that we have placed ourselves. You have already been able to verify this during the work of the 1st Commission, where there were no prejudices, but the will of the Democratic Party to table a series of amendments to improve your proposal, which, from our point of view, is purely populist at this very moment, without an overall vision and without any foundation. I do not want to fall by referring to the fact that you are trying to reduce the number of Members simply in order to achieve an easy consensus in the European elections and to sell you the partial victory resulting from a reduction - let us remember that the readings must be multiple before the citizens - which would really be a great damage to democracy, if there were not - I repeat - no constructive contribution side by side, unlike our proposal. There will be this work in which I imagine the presidency of the Senate has a significant role. The amendments which we have tabled and which we hope will pass the examination of the eligibility criterion aim - and I say this to the rapporteur - to build a vision. We are not talking about the fact that those who do not agree with your proposal do not agree with the reduction in the number of Members. We want it to be clear that the Democratic Party Group is tabling amendments to improve your proposal, without prejudice. Ours is a clear action to help the work of democracy. The easy message - I do not want to believe that it is what you intend to use - that fewer Members of Parliament pay less is wrong. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The question is not the number of Members, but how Members and representatives of the institutions are placed in a position to work. The system is improved if you overcome the bicameralism equal. We are willing to discuss this with you, but you also remove that veil of hypocrisy that today leads you to carry out a series of surgical operations against our Constitution without a comprehensive vision. You have divided your tasks - one entrusted to the Senate and the other to the House - and you are distorting the democratic principle on which our Constitution is based, which is representation. I'll add one last element before I finish. I hope that the majority will want to address the issue of constitutional reform together with opposition and that, therefore, there is room to work together with respect to a series of amendments that we have tabled, but if this does not happen I wonder how, under current electoral law, you think, with the system that you have articulated, to maintain and guarantee the principle of representativeness between territory and elected. You turn - precisely because the design is not there, you cannot see, it does not reveal and it is just a risky and dangerous cut - the electoral colleges in immense spaces where the number of voters is so high that they prevent the elected one from being able to do his job in the college. You're turning everything upside down for a propaganda operation. I ask you - and I hope - that in this long debate and in the analysis, drafting and voting on the amendments, this aspect should be taken into account. Making reforms on its own, especially constitutional reforms, is dangerous not only for the forces involved, but for the democracy of our country and for the image that you will give of it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u48	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u49	Mr President, I have listened carefully to both Senator Malan's and Senator Malpezzi's remarks. As a matter of fact, I too would have liked to hear from our dearest colleague, Mr Calderoli, because it seemed to me quite right that this should begin. I would like to make a few very brief remarks, I hope. I think that this debate is destined to pass quickly, almost as a bureaucratic act. We are talking about the reduction of Members: how can we not agree with this? Public opinion wants to reduce Members of Parliament; if we go on like this, it will soon want Members to be removed. [[Applause from the Aut and PD Groups]] This thing's turning into a harp. I confess to you that in the past hours I have questioned myself and I said to myself: but at the end of the day who makes me intervene? It's gonna be like this anyway, de plano. Then I reflected more deeply and, also because of the role of a long-standing MEP, it seemed to me that I had to assume the responsibility of saying no to this measure, because it is a fiction. It is yet another demagogic stone that we build to make fun of people. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is clear that the issue is not the reduction of Members. If we look in the annals of Parliament, already in the bicameral D'Alema, which spoke of a comprehensive reform, there was the possibility of a reduction of Members. When President Renzi in the last parliamentary term presented the reform that some of us supported in the electoral campaign and also in the electoral vote - I was among those - it was in fact intended to lighten the number of parliamentarians in the context of a general constitutional revision. I therefore do not have a no to the reduction in the number of Members of Parliament today. There is a no to this measure because it is a mockery, because through this measure we put a further stone on the delegitimization with which we are scientifically building the demolition of representative democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The problem, therefore, is to urge the emotions of public opinion by identifying in Parliament the scapegoat of the country's malfunction. We have a government that has paralysed the adoption of very important measures. Let us think, for example, of infrastructure: nothing moves in uncertainty because the government cannot decide. At the same time, however, what is done? There is yet another diversion to identify in the number of parliamentarians the father of all the problems, while as is clear to all of us the issue we are facing today is the decision-making paralysis of the Government, it is the decision-making paralysis of the Parliament induced by the Government. All is, therefore, except for the number of Members. But the shortcut is the simplest one you can identify. Someone more important than us said that democracy is needed to tell most people the things they don't like to listen to. Well, with this misplaced fake decision-making whisper, we achieve the goal of giving Parliament and its credibility another pickaxe. The subliminal message is very clear: if democracy works badly, it is the fault of the Members, it is ours. We are too many, we are too much paid, we are inefficient, perhaps we are corrupt, so, from this point of view too, it is good that the judiciary has a full say and not a trade union in this House because we are something useless, so the sooner we are eliminated, the better. The problem isn't us individually. Personally, after thirty-six years of Parliament, I am the last in this House to have something to defend, because I have built and defended my life - and I am proud of it - on membership of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They gave me blood tests every three or four years. I have eleven legislatures behind me, that is eleven confirmations of the electoral corps. I didn't win a college contest and I stayed in the chair for 36 years. Everything I have done, I have always done, bearing in mind the centrality of the electoral body that expresses to us, because that is why Parliament is at the heart of democracy. Colleagues, I don't have to tell you anything else, because it's all clear to me. We are faced with a further measure of façade which identifies - in us Members - the simple target to be taken down. Making a good referendum on the Internet is perhaps better than democracy, also because it reduces costs. In this measure there is something that comes from afar, even from the mistakes made by the ruling class in not explaining that democracy has costs. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] The story is full of dictators who did not want costs for parliaments, abolished them and - yes - bureaucratized them, doing everything to lose their role in society. Well, I do not know a form of democracy other than that which lies at the heart of Parliament's legitimacy. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] I will therefore vote against this pranky measure, because I do not want to contribute to a further smoke that is being thrown at the electoral body and at the citizens. Democracy does not mean to indulge in instincts, perhaps to provoke them, or to try somehow to amplify them. The task of a ruling class is to lead a country, while here it seems to me that the opposite is being done. We use the bad moods, even legitimate ones, of the electoral corps and we identify ourselves with the simple target - Parliament - the father of all the problems. This is the first measure, but it will not be the last, because there is a strategy behind all this. I therefore say no to this measure, although - let us be clear - it is not so important. Only those who know the constitutional mechanisms know how valuable my testimony of voting no can be. This is a symbolic thing that applies in parliamentary acts. However, I want to see the testimony of a long-term Member of Parliament who says that we are taking a very dangerous drift for the democracy of our country. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] The number of Members has nothing to do with it, it is an excuse and a fiction. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute including Alessandro Volta in Latina, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u51	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor on this measure because Mr Fraccaro was present in the Chamber, but I am told that he has left. Anyway, what I want to remember will remain in the record. Generally speaking, all those who announced the cut in the number of Members did not have a great political fortune. So, before you say you're the first, maybe you should remember what happened in the country. Forza Italia - when it was in the government, in a center-right group, in 2006 - proposed a comprehensive constitutional reform, according to which the number of parliamentarians were expected to be cut, a strong form of government with direct election of the Premier, and a strong appreciation of the Regions and local authorities. That bill, which was voted by the entire centre-right in double reading (then it was approved by the political forces), was, as you will recall, rejected in the 2006 referendum; not so much because the reduction in the number of parliamentarians was rejected, but because it was a period of political rotation. The next hypothesis, put forward by the Renzi Government in the previous legislature, which even provided for the elimination of a Chamber, was the same, because at the referendum people expressed a yes or a no to a policy and not to the question of the number of parliamentarians. This is certainly a commercial measure; but what I think cannot be accepted is that it is the first time, because not only does it mean not even knowing the recent history, with reference to the two reforms that were voted by Parliament, by the centre-right before and then, in a somewhat different form, by the centre-left, but also that no one remembers that in 2012, on the basis of an overall agreement between the political forces that then supported the Monti Government and the Regions, there was a cut of 300 regional councillors. Does anyone remember that this country has been able to approve the cut of 300 regional councillors? In all the regions of Italy there has been a precise cut, that is, all political forces have accepted statutory changes within legislative assemblies, so in some regions there has been a change from 90 to 80 regional councillors, or from 70 to 50 or from 30 to 20. Nobody remembers. No one remembers that the measure, approved in 2012 in agreement with the Regions (because the first, the one done by Tremonti, was contested and challenged before the Constitutional Court), was voted by us (if you read the acts, there was also the explanation of vote in favour of my friend Gilberto Pichetto Fratin) and instead was opposed by Garavaglia, who was in opposition and was absolutely opposed to the cut of the regional councillors. This was because it was another political period. We have not only approved the Fornero law; we have also voted for the cut of 300 regional councillors, of which no one remembers, while the League has certainly not voted in favour of that measure and is in the act. By this I mean that Forza Italia has always been in favour of reducing the so-called costs of politics (I have made the example of the number of regional councillors); but we must also know that, in reality, that is not what people want. People get restless and feel anger at the political class when they are ill, when they feel that there are, wrongly or rightly, parliamentarians who are better off than they are, who identify as an enemy. It's no use reducing the number. Have you seen a regional election won or lost because a reduction in the number of advisers had been made? No, absolutely not. They didn't even have the headlines in the national newspapers. I don't remember seeing one on this issue. So, of course, even if I understand the clever demagogic that the government wants to make today three months after the European elections, so it needs the flag to say that the reduction of parliamentarians has been voted on, I would like to say, first, that you are not the first and I do not think you will be the last; secondly, that the only serious reduction was the one following the 2012 measure because it is based on an overall agreement also on institutional levels and, finally, that, in my humble opinion, this is not the answer that people want. Members will be cut off, but you will see that it will be the same as for the vitality: no one will remember it the next day. People want a political class that walks and works, that is the symbol of a mature democracy - as I believe we are - and not the symbol of a democracy by slogan, as you would like it to become. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u53	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u54	Mr President, I believe that there is consistency, so I am not surprised that the rapporteur, Mr Calderoli, has decided not to speak today in this House on such an important subject. Yours is not unwillingness or disinterest but simply the proof, as you have shown us with a trivial example of the same escalation of the day, that since the beginning of this parliamentary term everything has been done to show that Parliament does not matter anymore: that the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic in this parliamentary term have to count nothing more; therefore the time taken to discuss in this Chamber or within the Commissions is absolutely wasted and what can be done to eliminate it obviously is all earned. I say this because today's work in this House began, Mr President, with some speeches on the order of business that tended to stigmatize Italy's attitude to the situation in Venezuela, after Minister Moavero Milanesi had come to this House last week and after, despite that information, exactly a few hours later, the news was told exactly the opposite. Gravity is not so much the lie told to this House - I imagine that probably at that time even the Minister did not know with certainty that it would turn out to be so - as the fact that everyone speaks on Twitter or Facebook, and Parliament no longer makes sense. The important things are not discussed here; we saw it in the budget law: you will remember the images of Members who besieged the Commission's Chamber to have a text an hour before going to the House, because it had not been possible to have it before. Why, then, explain the logic that leads to the reduction of parliamentarians? It is clear to me that, as the legislature has been managed so far, for what is the relationship between the Government and Parliament and the role of parliamentarians - who merely vote for whatever comes, without even having read it - there is absolutely nothing to explain. I, too, therefore, like President Casini, speak only because, out of a sense of responsibility, I want to leave our position to the record, because I believe that one day it will be important to have fully explained our ideas on the point. We approved a constitutional reform that in the referendum campaign you did everything you could to keep it from going, and you did. Our constitutional reform did not simply propose cutting 300 salaries - that was the last of the points - but simplifying procedures. We started from the idea that important laws are being dealt with in this House, that concern the lives of citizens and people and that sometimes they make the parliamentary shuttle for an entire parliamentary term, but if then the legislature is suddenly closed, the many families and the many citizens who have been waiting for years for those laws see a new legislature coming in which forces them to start again with the regulatory process. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi]] These were the reasoning and the idea that guided us: not simply a matter of numbers, but of competences. We were guided by the fact that it was bicameralism that was to be changed, which today is absolutely empty compared to all other European democratic models, and that it needed a radical change. Instead you do the usual demagogic operation and mass distraction: there is a problem, the country is in recession and so we show the citizens that we sweep away 300 parliamentarians, so maybe they do not realize that after six years we have returned to recession and think about the fact that we have cut 300 parliamentarians. It always happens this way: when there is a true negative fact, which concerns the economy and the real life of people, a port closes, a demagogic operation is carried out, it aims to cut the vitality or the number of parliamentarians. The real result, in the pockets of Italian citizens and in terms of answers to people, is not there. In the meantime, however, Parliament is delegitized in every way and sometimes openly. In fact, when it is proposed to draw straws, Members are clearly said not to care and not to want a representative democracy, which is ours. We do not care and we do not have the culture of the institutions, we do not know our history, we do not know how Italy was born and what battles it had to face in order to reach the level of democracy and representativeness of the Republic based on the fundamental values of our Constitutional Charter, but it is only thought that everything can be reduced to the idea of cutting a salary or a seat. I say to you then: let us eliminate Parliament itself. I tell you in a provocative way: we do nothing and do nothing. You didn't make an amendment to the budget law, you didn't make a change, you didn't put a question. [[Applause from the PD Group]] What are you doing? They can just get you to vote from home. There's no need to keep you here in front of your phone. What are you doing? You've never expressed an idea but to come here and always say that the government is right. We have voted on our budgetary laws, but we have also changed them substantially. We spent nights and days in the last parliamentary term in the Budget Committees, making amendments, changing the budget posts for school, health and social. 6.35 p.m., followed by BINI. When something seemed to us to improve, we did so, with the loyalty of the majority, with respect for our Government, but also with the autonomy given by knowing that we are elected to play a role, representing Italian citizens. I believe that you should think very carefully about this, about how you play the role of a Member of Parliament. If you decide not to exercise it, then it is probably true that nothing is more useful and even the time for an authoritative rapporteur, such as Mr Calderoli, to explain this to us is time lost and it is of no use at all. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Cangini and Conzatti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u55	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to address - I would finally say in this House - one of the more than 240 legislative measures blocked by the total absence of political action by this Government, which, in the eyes of the Italians and those who are watching us outside the country, seems decidedly unstable, unfortunately inconclusive and - let me, after what you have done in these days on the Venezuela case - also unreliable. Colleagues of the majority, among the many emergencies of this country that affect young people, and also their parents unemployed, we can count: the non-sustainability of the greatest social conquest of all time, the National Health Service (with waiting lists of over six months and millions of Italian citizens who no longer have access to care), the reduction of births, the total absence of demographic policy and welfare policy, over one hundred companies that close every day (for the despair of their entrepreneurs, who have made endless sacrifices to be able to raise them), millions of precarious, 27 large works blocked (even the ANCI has protested) that question hundreds of thousands of jobs. In the face of all this, what did you think you would do with great urgency? You have thought of presenting a measure that changes the lives of all Italians and that will suddenly make Italians happier because it provides for the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. An orphaned measure of a real and great constitutional reform and which, as it is, does not bring any benefit to the country, does not bring any benefit to Parliament and does not bring any benefit to democracy. You are here to present a commercial measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , right in our country, that country so much loved by everyone, that country that you were able to lead to another great record: the recession in just nine months. Congratulations! Colleagues, the issue of reducing the number of Members of Parliament is certainly important and worthy of attention, but it must be linked to an organic constitutional revision, which adheres to the overall reorganization of the dynamics of powers, otherwise - I repeat with all my energies - remains yet another political-electoral spot. This government has not decided to govern by following the needs of citizens and families; this government has decided to follow only the results of the polls dramatically and that is why we cannot raise our heads. As a young Italian at the first parliamentary term, I feel the same concerns as all the citizens who care about the fate of our country and our democracy. Colleagues, what worries us, that worries me personally and that concerns the Italians, is not the measure you bring to this House: it is the method of government that you are carrying out and that prevents any debate in this Parliament, which is sovereign and which is a guarantee of democracy and of all Italian citizens. That same democracy that has also allowed you to be elected, to become parliamentarians and to sit here. You are doing a job against what you believe in: Parliament. Do not forget that right here, a month ago, we were prevented from discussing, for the first time in the history of the Italian Republic and of our democracy, the budgetary law of the State. That said, it seems little, but in reality this law concerns the present and future of every single citizen: of those born today, of those who are about to be born, of those who retire, of those who do not have a job, of those who are sick and of those who today exercise their entrepreneurial activity with the risk of not being able to make it every month. We have all learned from the newspapers the content of the budget law. Even colleagues in the majority had to admit that they did not know the measures they voted on. With you, Parliament - you have unfortunately demonstrated this and I must admit this - has become an unnecessary bureaucratic passage for your political whims and your publicity measures. Your real political will is to saturate Parliament as much as possible, resetting the debate in this House - as deputy leader Malan also said - in order to prevent our fellow citizens from knowing the truth of those measures that you bring to the Chamber and that "collar" as if they were gold in social media to try to reach a few more points in the polls, while the country is sinking more and more. It is precisely those measures that have led to the country's recession and which will still lead to increased poverty. I would remind you, with regard to democracy, that today you are guests, first of all of those who voted for you and then of a ledger contract signed by two political parties completely opposed and distinguished between them. As much as I might like Conte, he is certainly not the Premier of the Italians. He too was not elected, just as his predecessors were not elected, which you have always criticized. Well, as you all remember, Parliament and the Italian Government had one last Premier, which dates back a few years ago and which is still today the last Premier of this country: Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments of Senator Lanzi]] Senator colleagues, citizens want more. The country awaits the reduction of taxes, the real flat tax, the investments in infrastructure, the real politics, the great works, the health care, the great reform for the social, the policies in support of the schools and the Forces of the order. What do you do? You lose precious time - the only thing that has remained the Italians - to make these commercial measures that are the results of your political whims, because you don't get along with anything and you don't have a common view on any point of the program. The titles of the index that you approve remain; there is nothing you share about the contents. You know what, then? In fact, I have heard so many times that this great measure can lead to the reduction of Parliament's costs, but the truth is that the reduction of Parliament's costs is not the reduction of parliamentarians, but it is how the State decides to spend the resources, that is the money of the citizens. And it is shameful to question democracy when you talk about cost reduction. Democracy is not a cost; democracy has an invaluable value and must be defended until death. On the other hand, it is the budgetary law that has to provide economic and financial answers. And how did you decide to spend the budget law money, the citizens' money? Debting 7 billion all Italian households to finance the income of citizenship, which is an expense that brings no advantage for GDP and for our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have also blocked all infrastructure. To the friends of the League then I tell that the situation that has emerged in recent months is so serious that I invite you to abandon the ship and to shipwreck alone the policy bankruptcy of the Movimento 5 Stars. Do not be responsible for the shipwreck of the country. Link Salvini, Minister, close the ports to this anti-politics that today proves to be in the eyes of all Italians as the worst politics of all time, a policy that calls into question the growth of the country and the democracy of Italy. The President of my Group, Anna Maria Bernini, has done well to invite everyone to see the facts for what they are and not to imagine surreal and virtual scenarios.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u57	Senator Siclari, one minute away and no extensions will be granted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u58	SICLARI (FI-BP). Propaganda can be done, but denial of evidence is diabolical. Salvini is trying on his skin the reliability of his government contractors, but it's not just his business. Unfortunately it is the business of every single Italian, of all Italians and of all our country that this Government is accompanying on the path of economic sunset. No more commercial measures: Stop. If you are able to govern, truly governed, do not blame others or those who are not present or in Parliament! Give them to yourself if you are unable to bring solutions, otherwise leave the government of the country to those who know how to manage it and especially to those who are able to make Italians dream with true reforms, worthy of our democracy. Long live Parliament! Long live democracy! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u59	Senator Biti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to vote on and which we are now debating in general is truly important, substantial and fundamental to our democracy. I too, at the cost of being repetitive, would like to say that Mr Calderoli's report would have been even more valuable, given the importance of the measure under discussion: there has been no way of listening to it and we regret it. I believe that we cannot allow - or rather, perhaps we cannot afford - to downgrade the draft law under consideration to simple electoral propaganda or to commercials on the costs of politics or tweets or posts on Facebook, because this would classify us as unserious and unresponsible people, so perhaps not fit to sit in this Parliamentary House, unless it is precisely what we are looking for. Those who wanted, promoted and strongly believed in the constitutional reform of 2016 - which many of you have undertaken not to let go - obviously, in a theoretical way, have no foreclosure towards a reduction in the number of parliamentarians; however, there are objections that become substantial, there are aspects that we absolutely cannot risk failing in addressing this issue: the first is the efficiency of the institutions and the second is the democratic representation, which we exercise here. The institutions must be efficient, they must be able to decide well, at best and to do so quickly. Colleagues and colleagues, are we sure - I ask each of us - that reducing, simply by cutting, the number of all of us elected parliamentarians means automatically being able to make the best decisions for the citizens we represent, to decide the best things for the country that sent us here to represent him? The institutions must allow each of us to assume that responsibility which has been given to them by the citizens. I wonder if the responsibility which this role assigns to us will be well exercised when the constitutional reform that we are going to carry out in this parliamentary term is simply a reduction of Members. So my conviction remains (and I hope not only mine, but I think of my Group as a whole and I understand someone else as well) that a comprehensive reform of the whole parliamentary system is necessary and fundamental, because the primary need is to respond to the needs of the country, the citizens who sent us here, and to do so - I repeat - as best and as fast as possible. I wonder and ask you again: is it simply the reduction in the number of Members, leaving the two Houses exactly as they are (as they said before me) to give us the guarantee of doing a good job? Would it be a good result for the citizens who elected us simply to obtain a reduction in their representation in this House, with only numbers? Would they all be represented at that point? I think the vision is missing, or perhaps the vision is and is clear and clear for some of you, or rather for the political leaders of some of you. Perhaps the clear and clear view is that Parliament no longer serves any purpose. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are therefore hiding behind this pretense of reducing the costs of politics. President Casini has already said that democracy has a cost. It will certainly not be the reduction in the cost of Members to ensure a democracy that works. So I ask you, as Senator Bini did before me, to tell us clearly: if you want to delegitimize and empty Parliament as a whole, and then to show that we are all here for nothing, just to fill a chair, which is what you have always said (and maybe you are finally getting there), tell us clearly. Have the courage to put your face in it [[Applause from the PD Group]] and to make it clear that you in Parliament are not interested in anything. Because that's what comes out. So, I hope you're missing the vision, but I'm afraid there's a clear plan. Parliament must be efficient, as I have said several times. The need is for complex reforms, a complex system that must ensure fundamental aspects for the representative democracy of our Republic. There are some amendments that have been tabled to the Commission, and we hope that they will also come to this House; they are a test case for you by the majority. Those amendments will enable us to demonstrate what I said earlier: if there is a vision for you, if what interests you is a Parliament that functions and works; or if you only have the will to abolish Parliament, as we have known it to this day (and I hope we will know it again). We are in general discussion, so these are my thoughts to you, colleagues of the majority, because it is you who must take us away from the embarrassment of this moment. For us there are still very strong doubts about the fact that there is only the desire behind it to demolish democratic institutions as we know them to date. You have a great responsibility, therefore, and I hope that you will be able to support it, to grasp it and to change our mind; to show us that what you want is to respond to the citizens who have made us all sit here; to respond in the best possible way and to tell them that we are here to represent them, at best and always. And to do so, should there be any need, even by reducing our number, but first of all - because I think that would be a residual aspect - by putting in hand real, substantial and complex reforms of a democratic system, which we will defend with our nails and teeth until we are given the chance. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Papatheu]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u62	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, we are today discussing a subject which has now been going on cyclically in the political, social and media debate for about thirty-five years: the reduction in the number of Members. We all know very well in this House how Articles 56 and 57 of the Constitution lay down a fixed number of Members and senators. We today, with a constitutional bill, therefore with a procedure that is defined as aggravated, ask for its reduction. It is a journey over thirty years that has passed through many legislatures. We can recall the Bozzi Committee of 1983 and then arrive at the bicameral in 1997, chaired by Mr Massimo D'Alema. It is therefore certainly an interesting subject, on which we have no reference whatsoever. On the contrary, we must remember that of all the attempts to reform (seven in the course of more than three decades), the most important and organic one was that of the center-right government in the fourteenth legislature presided over by President Silvio Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] : the only reform attempt that went into effect and arrived until the constitutional referendum that, as other colleagues also mentioned before me, then failed in June 2006. I repeat, this was an attempt at organic reform which included reducing the number of Members to 518 and senators to 252. This is enough to remind all those who have a minimum of historical memory - because it is not so many years ago - how today this is also a battle of our political strength, so not only the prerogative of the political forces today anti-system and anti-caste. On the contrary, rather than a battle, it is more a thoughtful reflection that political forces have been doing for years, because today there is a need for constitutional reform, but it is certainly organic. We therefore immediately displace the field from the possible easy exploitations, because this is an argument that lends itself to you easily, enough to feed it today to the citizens, saying that with the future savings of this reform (100 million euros a year on a state budget of about 700 billion euros) we will do works of social utility. This certainly brings consensus and votes today, so we must clear the field and end this rhetoric and look at the reform that is proposed today - as we said, we too - by analysing some important data and making comparisons between the Italian Parliament and those of other countries, particularly European. We have in particular taken into consideration studies, analyses and insights that have also been carried out in these days by our Study Service. If we look at the proportional numerical relationship between parliamentarians and citizens, in Italy this figure is 1.5 parliamentarians per 100,000 inhabitants. In Denmark it is 3.2 parliamentarians per 100,000 inhabitants, in Britain it is 2.2 per 100,000 inhabitants. The figure is equal to ours in France and the Netherlands, while it is a little lower in Germany, with a ratio of 0.9. It is, therefore, a reform that is certainly acceptable, but whose weight in recent years has been inflated by a populist narrative and therefore absolutely wrong and we must say that. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a hot topic, which has crossed, as I said, many legislators, for over thirty years. It is a subject of reform, which certainly sees us in favour, but what we are puzzled about today is the use of this measure in terms of electoral ads and, by chance, all this happens before an electoral campaign such as that of the European elections. This is a subject which, on the other hand, must be treated with great delicacy. That is why I want to remind you that the position of Forza Italia is certainly favourable, but because the latter has been the precursor of institutional reforms and we must remember again the constitutional reform of its Government, of the Berlusconi Government. We remember this because, even then, we were talking not only about the reduction of Members, as I said before, but about overcoming the perfect bicameralism. It was therefore a reform that was certainly organic, but that looked very well at the balance of powers, an aspect of fundamental importance from which - let us remember always - we cannot transition, also because the balance between state powers must be guaranteed, as democratic representativeness must be. Once we establish these reasonings, these palettes of the balance of powers and democratic representativeness, then we can discuss everything. Today, however, unfortunately, the draft law that we are preparing to examine - and to vote, as I have said, also favorably - does not meet the requirement of an organic and complete reform, because it is limited to cutting the number of parliamentarians, leaving out many other things: representativeness and proportionality also in the Commissions, parliamentarians who must be elected in the Regions, revision of electoral colleges, electoral law, parliamentary committees. Let us not forget that the Chambers also elect the President of the Republic, who must be absolutely elected by a large number of parliamentarians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's not forget these things. Not to mention another issue that has been rejected without appeal by the General Council of Italians abroad: the reduction of our parliamentarians who are elected abroad. While all the data tell us that Italians living abroad today increase and become more and more we go to reduce representation, making a huge mistake (and I leave out the numbers of the relationship between elected parliamentarians abroad and residents). It is not, in our view, a reform with a broad horizon, but, once again, a measure designed only in terms of electoral consensus and propaganda against the real or presumed privileges of politics and politicians. It is certainly a wrong approach because when we intervene on an organic reform of the state and constitutional it must not be done on the emotional wave of some interest of partisan or, worse still, of punitive intent towards someone. The priority today, when constitutional reform is being carried out, is to safeguard the basic principles of democracy. Upstream there must be a serious and deeper reflection among all the political forces present in Parliament, and above all there must be a reflection and confrontation with the citizens as well. Unfortunately - alas - we have very different signals from the idea of democracy, especially in this Parliament from a political force that is currently discussing a referendum without quorum. This is the wrongest thing that can happen in this Parliament today. The quorum currently responds to a logic of balancing the system, as a counterpower to prevent referendums (questions put to citizens) from being approved by a minority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's not possible. The quorum is necessary and, like it or not, it really serves to measure the extent of liking and interest that citizens can have on a matter that is being put to their attention. We cannot suddenly turn to a dictatorship of a minority today. That's not possible. This is therefore also a wrong reform. As with so many arguments to the attention of Parliament and national politics these days, we also see a government with two political forces who say it and give it their goddamn reason. Inside, as I said, a system of representative democracy, the first indispensable guarantee is that of proportional respect for every opinion. Abolish, therefore, the quorum would mean handing over decisions to minorities. It's a matter that still divides the government. Mr President, let us pay close attention to the attempts to bring about certain delicate reforms with the arrogance of those who claim to alter the cornerstones of the constitutional system and to unbalance the cultural and democratic heritage of our system. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I too regret that I have not been able to hear the excellent rapporteur's report. The regret does not depend on not having been able to learn the list of the article that is proposed - for that we can certainly refer to the written text - but from not being able to listen to what it is - perhaps it is not by chance that we have not heard it - the guiding principle of this reform proposal. What is the ratio, the social name and the revolution that you are proposing? The subject is very serious and challenges the democracies of this millennium. There is no doubt that today, more than in the past, we are questioning how our democracy can function, how it can be every day in the lives of citizens and how it can meet needs, anxieties and concerns. This issue is very topical at a time when the economy and the social crisis are beating very hard on people's lives. How, then, can this democracy be effective? We have long wondered how excessive concentration of legislative power can be alleviated in the Commission and how this power can be restored to Parliament. It is an objection raised by everyone, but above all - I remember - also by the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars in the past legislature. And we wonder how the timing and manner of Parliament's decisions and work can be kept up with the times and questions that the citizens' community asks us. In these months of revolting, but above all of rarefied, very rare legislative initiative, what was the attitude of the majority? How many legislative proposals from Parliament have we discussed and how much and how much has the majority done to make Parliament central, to make it work, to make it close to the citizens? We have witnessed a continuous humiliation of Parliament; we have seen a trampling of the function, a cancellation of the contribution of proposals made by Members, especially by the majority, more than by the opposition. If that is the context, someone in this context has said that Parliament is out of date, that it must be out of date. Some have also said that liberal democracies are outdated and must be overcome. It is then in this context that, without titles and without reasons, the proposal to reduce the number of Members tout court arrives. I therefore ask myself and ask you how the reduction in the number of Members facilitates the efficiency of legislative production and what facilitates democracy and where and how Parliament's work is improved. Are we talking about regulatory changes? Are we talking - since we are talking about costs - about the rationalization of expenditure on the functioning of Parliament and, above all, how we can best guarantee the quality of the work of Members? No, we're talking about elimination of a cost. So I ask myself and ask you: what is the perfect number, on the cost? What's the perfect cost? What is the price of acquiescence and obedience to what the Government says, decided not even where and how? How much is it, colleagues? How much? Tell us, because the Italians want to know. I say that, if you are not useful to the citizens, even one euro is too much, there is no adequate price. We would like to know - and we expected the report to explain this to us - what constitutional architecture you think of. Some have mentioned, for example, the change in the audience that elects the President of the Republic. As we all know, the President of the Republic is the guarantor of the balance between powers and is, in the final analysis, the last guarantor of the freedom of all of us. We'll find some answers. I do not know whether I will be denied it, but in the last few minutes I have read that there would be a proposal for a government law such that Parliament would directly delegate to the Government, with a restricted Commission, the legislative production of 19 subjects covering all fields. Perhaps, then, the answer to the question about the constitutional architecture that you think of lies in this proposal. The suspicion - which at this point is something more - is that this proposal is actually the application of a great insuffering and annoying to parliamentary democracy and that is why you do not tell us what the informant reason is. Democracy lies in control, transparency and public debate and transparency. We would like to resume this debate. So we can start discussing each other again, but let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen - and I am addressing the majority in particular - in the name of what? In the name of what do we do this discussion? If we do it in the name of the citizens and the people, it is certainly not to take away the sceptre of democracy from the citizens and the people. Thank you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u64	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u65	Mr President, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, we are not concerned about the reduction in the number of Members, because it is an end in itself that we are very little concerned about. However, we are very concerned about the fact that we are not asking ourselves here why we want to reduce the number of Members and, even less so, we are asking ourselves about the role of Members, reduced - especially in this parliamentary term - to obedient soldiers. The lack of relationship of Senator Calderoli, who is a man known for the respect of the institutions, really shows this, that the senators, especially of majority, are considered obedient. Whatever the merits of the proposals that are brought here, they know that you will vote and this is very serious, regardless of the number in which you are here: if there is an uncritical unanimity of thought, there may also be no one to represent. In wondering why, I went to read the reports accompanying the provision and I found some arguments that are also present in some posts and in some commercials: increase the efficiency and productivity of the Chambers, rationalise public spending, make our bicameralism less restless and conflictual. We could perhaps be superficially satisfied, but, in fact, this satisfaction is far surpassed by events, which tell us that this Parliament is regarded as something that no longer serves and that Members can be chosen by lot and even vote on the budget law without having seen it or read it. Members are considered superfluous. The events that have greatly exceeded the bill in question tell us that in Italy the hardware of democracy is in great danger, because they want to replace the networks to the parties and the unanimity to the critical thinking capacity of every individual parliamentarians who represent many people and not the political leaders. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Each one of us and you, who has never spoken and even tried to contradict something that he deeply could not share, represents the Italian people. The provocation of the randomness of the drawing of lots by Members of Parliament is unacceptable. These are the ideas for reflection. We want people of the highest quality here, because what the citizens are asking is that the quality of the decisions that are taken here be high, in their interest and for the good of the people: the exact opposite of what has been happening in this House for almost a year. Those who believed in transparency and those who still believe - we do not know how - in a fair battle open their eyes: let us seize the opportunity of this constitutional reform. We opened our eyes. I tried to open them. In this year of experience I told myself: all right, they want to increase efficiency and productivity. But look at the budget law or the simplification decree, but also a random measure, so much the same: we have been unarmed parliamentarians, prepared and ready to discuss at our disposal. This is not because of the inefficiency of Parliament and Members of Parliament, but because of an extra-institutional chaos, a political chaos that has nothing to do with us. Then open your eyes! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They want to rationalise the costs for 100 million euros. In two, by means of shots at the largest, in a few months they have charged the state budget of EUR 1.5 billion, in terms of interest payable. So what do we do? Salomonically, we cut those two, I'd say. We'd do it sooner and save a lot more than cutting 100, 200 or 300. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As far as the raging attitude is concerned, be patient: here the raging attitude is with the veils, with social fakes, videos made at random, which absolutely do not respect Parliament. Here Members are educated, prepared, ready for discussion. At this point, please, let us start thinking again about what is important, that it is improving the quality of choices, and it is done by thinking about what you vote, selecting a political class that lives up to responsibilities, which is the exact opposite of the mandate bond. The exact opposite! The bond of mandate is a gag to freedom of thought, to the capacity for opinion, to the critical expression: it is an insult to the intelligence of each one of you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We would never let ourselves be insulted in this way, but you do and you also vote for them, these immense craps. This is unacceptable! But it is even more unacceptable - and I say this from one who, although having lived a little here and a little there, was born in a special autonomy - that in order to make this reform we have adopted a linear cut, as if all the territories were equal, as if there were no linguistic minorities, as if there were no Italians elected abroad, as if there were no international treaties governing the relations between State and territories. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But where did we get to? We had to beg that we should think about the issues, that amendments should be written, because constitutionally minorities must be protected: with the muscles minorities will always be crushed. Is this Italy you want? We don't. Do we want to reduce the number of Members? Okay, but I don't think that's the point. If you want, we can also reduce it, but I would like it to be reflected on the issues upstream, which remain unresolved, which have not even been debated and which concern the quality of the people elected and true democracy. At this rate, in fact, we go towards a "democracy." [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u67	Mr President, I would have expected a further speech from Senator Calderoli in this debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u68	Again? D'ALFONSO (PD). I expected it because I know his thematic confidence. The "still", says the bishop of my city, is always fine, especially when animated by sincerity of encouragement. I would have expected, on the part of Senator Calderoli, that help that we all know could be able to bring here, so that the debate could be fruitful, not bureaucratic. We find ourselves in a moment in the life of the country and of our order where the priority is not exactly to deal with the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. As my esteemed colleague Rossomando asked, how do you determine the perfect number? We follow the encouragement that once, in class, Professor Miglio gave: what is the perfect number of parliamentarians? Is that what you make up for the occasion? He told us, in class, that fishermen usually play on numbers, when they have to be believed on the object of the catch, for example a carp: the weight of the carp is always said with a round number, to make it credible. This brings us to the number of 400 for Members and 200 for Senators, because it is as if it had a geometry melody. But are we sure that such a delicate matter, what is that of representativeness (which is more than representation), can bow to a question of aesthetics of numerical wording? The issue of the representativeness of Members of Parliament raises the question of the quality of democracy. We still have a very large number of those who do not vote and abstentionism is an important part of the democratic process. It is true that we are experiencing a phase of expression of our parliamentary democracy in which the parliamentarians' kit also appears, which makes us say little, makes us participate little and perhaps makes us have embellishment and furnishings. Then, we also heard that there is a technological way out, from a digital platform, that we knew could be used to make purchases of goods and services; now we hear that it can be a substitute for democracy and the circuit of participation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u69	[[Applause from the PD Group]] However, we are not afraid of innovation. In this Upper House of Italy has worked for a long time, with fitness, a great Senator of the Republic, Martinazzoli, who has left us told us that of change in change, seeking only change - let me say, and I hope that tomorrow not only that - you run the risk of meeting those who theorize only change for change, which is the devil. The devil changes repeatedly. We cannot only look for change for change, if it is also the cost of carrying out parliamentary representation, in a country there is the question of who goes, votes, says and tries to make present those absent through the vote. The parliamentarians have a mission: to make those who are absent present, to ensure that all issues, sorrows, expectations, hopes and projects arrive in the circuit of liberal democratic democracy; to ensure that the territory enters into Parliament. It is not just a question of reducing that quid of the cost; on the contrary, if the quality of parliamentary work is up to the challenges, the number becomes an investment, becomes the strength and quality of the expression of democracy. We have made an attempt to improve the text which is being discussed and discussed by means of amendments which, for example, can add differentiation between the two chambers, specializing in each other. I have read all the papers concerning the budget law; it took me time, I find it difficult to read and understand. There is, for example, an innovation that - I am sure - 95% of 5 Star Senators would not have voted if they understood what they were voting for. I'm talking about the reinstatement of the concession institute. I listen to the interventions of the 5 Star Senators: they are against project financing, against the institutions of concession, design, execution and management. Why, then, did that institute happen to be able to return to life? For the exasperated speed, for the fiofilization of Parliament's workspaces. We have two horns that are burning us: on the one hand, this aesthetic of reformism, of what makes the most impression on the level of emotion (we reduce the number and we show); on the other hand, the compression of the times of the work of democracy. It happened on the budget law. Never would have been possible in that century of giants that was the twentieth century, unfortunately, I must say. It would never have been possible for a package of cards to appear and take the form of the state budget. That's what we've come to, too. Attention, then, ladies and gentlemen: everything is fine, it is okay to try to set up, to shift the axis of attention, to ensure that the agenda of Parliament's work is an emotional spectacle, but then we must have a system that is capable of working better and more; that it is capable of finding solutions to the issues expected; that it gives more wealth, more opportunities, more comfort for all, citizens, businesses and territories. And how do you do that? Allow me. In the nineteenth century the system of the nation-states was born and the system of liberal democratic representation also appeared. In my region there was a great servant of the then order, Giuseppe de Thomasis, collaborator of Gioacchino Murat, and the theme was to determine how great the provincial territories should be. Well, today, with this reform, we will also face - on the other hand - the size of the districts: how much representation will a Member have to guarantee, if the number is reduced and the reference territory enlarged? Gioacchino Murat posed the theme that the greatness of the district of the Province should correspond to the resistance of the horse in a day to cover all its territory. Then it was established, for example, that the Province of Chieti should have certain characteristics or that of L'Aquila other characteristics. How, in this case, do we find the appropriate size of the reference territory? We must ensure that all the vitality of the community, as Fr Luigi Sturzo would have said, can enter into Parliament. How do you do that? With inventions or with Aladdin's lamp? Maybe by deception, by force or by kicking in the lower parts? With what is the guarantee of entry completely within the little of a parliamentary space? I would have expected then a work of sewing, listening and respect for the delicacy of the matter, also because we do not start from the year zero, we are not the Province of Lodi, which was born a few years ago, we are the Parliament of the Italian Republic, which has so much work and effort behind and even failures. We should feed ourselves on the failures of the previous work. I don't want to make it complicated, but in ancient Greece there was a term that outlined this almost maieutic effort and collective pregnancy: there was talk of eubulia. Let's get together, put everything in and make sure everything gets fertilized, not to get to do "plus one," as in the challenge among turkeys who don't want to get into the pot, but to make sure that what turns out will actually work. I expect, after these interventions, Senator Calderoli will take the floor and start over. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u70	Senator Berardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u71	Mr President, I am sorry for Mr D'Alfonso, but unfortunately I will speak and not Mr Calderoli. I am at my first experience in Parliament and I have to say that my friend Calderoli - a pity that he is a milanist and I am an Interist, but everything is remedied - left me a little stucco. I'm really sorry, not least because I had prepared myself on a very important subject. Some of my colleagues from Forza Italia have already explained the procedure from which we started, thirty and more years ago and we can also remember that our President Silvio Berlusconi was really close, at one step, to the reduction of parliamentarians, finally. At that time we were talking about a reform which led to everything being more harmonised and better programmed for our Parliament, while today we are talking only about commercials. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say this, but for such an important issue we only speak for commercials, by tweeting or directing on Facebook or Instagram. Above all, it is regrettable to pass on the idea that Parliament is a useless institution. This flashes a little 'going on the territory, talking to our fellow citizens: it really seems that we have become useless. At this point, we abolish everything and return to the monarchy, or to the dictatorship, maybe we return to Maduro, so I think that some of you, colleagues, may have some sympathy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I think there's more to it than that, and we've seen more. I want to give a voice to some of the futility that has been made in Parliament: for example, it is a few days ago the amendment against the NCCs, the driver-rentals involving 80,000 companies and hundreds of thousands of jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Thanks to this amendment, which, unfortunately, someone will remember forever, an Italian sector and pride has been put in crisis. We can think of the battle that goes on, together with my Forza Italia Group, the leader Anna Maria Bernini, regarding the school's precarious. You boasted that you had issued the decree of dignity, to guarantee the assumption indefinitely: well, in the school there are 150,000 precarious, some for more than twenty, twenty-five or thirty years. To those, what answers do we give? Doors closed in the face, to our citizens. We can also remember your idea of closing down shopping malls on Sundays; another 500,000 jobs on the balance, millions of voters who will of course remember you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Finally - and I am sorry to say so - today they were protesting about children, who could be our children. They protested in the House because, with your amendment to the State Police competition, you prevented them from crowning their dream. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] These twenty-seven, twenty-eight or twenty-nine-year-olds, like our children, asked only and only to be able to continue to hope to become agents of the State Police and to serve the Italian State. You answered him like that, with a slap, a shameful slap in the face. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's not us. I want to be brief; I had prepared a speech, but then, with colleagues who have all spoken well, a lot has already been said. Needless to say, it is not Parliament, which is guarding our democracy, as the President of the Republic is in the first place. Needless, in my opinion, is much more: useless, in my opinion, is this Government and the Italians will soon understand that really what is useless, here, is this Government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u72	Maybe these aren't the right days to show off your football faith, Senator Berardi, but we did appreciate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u73	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional reform that we are about to vote on today is a resounding blow against democracy. A resounding blow against democracy. Here you don't cut your armchairs; here you cut democracy. This is to a greater extent and to an even greater extent than proportional for a segment of representation, that of the elected abroad by the citizens living abroad, because this is done by reducing the number of elected abroad to a much more than proportional extent, in the relationship between elected and electors, than is the case at national level. I quote a few numbers, Mr President, to give a sense of injustice and to understand the disproportion that actually already exists today, but that, in case the reform goes on, would become even more substantial. We must not forget that we refer to Law No 459 of 2001 and its implementing regulation. All the legislative proposals presented at the time provided for the establishment of not 18 Members of Parliament, representing citizens living abroad, but even 30. You, Mr President, will remember that very well, since the then Member of Parliament, Tremaglia, was the promoter of that bill. At the time, 30 Members, 20 Members and 10 Senators were supposed to be present. It was only the political compromise that led to the introduction of only 18 Members, 12 Members and 6 Senators. Well, if we look at the numbers, in the light of that disparity that already exists today, we see that the House, if at national level to each elected person, corresponds 96,000 voters, abroad they correspond 400,000. If we move forward with the current reform, we would even get to the beauty of 700,000 voters who correspond to a Member. Same thing to the Senate: already today the disproportion is even greater than the Chamber numbers. In Italy a senator is elected every 192,000 voters, while if a senator is elected abroad they need 800,000 voters; if the reform went into port they would serve the beauty of 1,400,000 voters. Among other things, we are talking about four colleges of gigantic dimensions: if the concept to which Mr D'Alfonso referred was valid just now, in his speech, and was measured through the distances that a horse should travel to touch all its territories, we would understand even more how impossible these data are. Also because - I would like to stress this, President - the figures show an electorate that has not seen any increase at national level in recent years; indeed, there has even been a slight reduction in the electorate at national level (-1.04 per cent) over time that coincides with the introduction of the vote by correspondence and therefore the right of the Italians to vote passively abroad. At the same time, our electorate abroad has grown incredibly: over the last thirteen years we have witnessed an increase in the number of AIRE members, i.e. citizens allowed to vote, of the beauty of 56%, over the doubling of those entitled. Compared to that disproportion that I was trying to clarify, even quoting numbers, that already exists today, if this reform will come to fruition a further disproportion, extremely unjustified. Compared to this injustice, President, our communities in the world are mobilizing and are extremely concerned, because this is not to decrease the number of their representatives, it is to Cassare the right of the Italians in the world to express, through their representation, their voice and their requests: among other things, they are instances that do not only belong to our communities, but also to the projection of the Italian system in the world, precisely because our more than 5 million residents abroad are the best expression of the projection of our country internationally. President, our communities are mobilizing in a number of ways: precisely in these hours, we are holding garrisons of our citizens concerned in front of the consular offices, in conjunction with our work in the Senate. This afternoon we received pictures of fellow citizens who are demonstrating in front of the Wolfsburg Consular Agency, while similar protests were announced in front of the consular offices in Charleroi in Belgium or London in Great Britain. Tens and dozens of fellow citizens have written - as our Parent Company, Senator Parrini, told me - clogging the mailboxes of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, precisely to denounce this injustice and attract the attention of Parliament, in particular of the majority. I would also like to address the representatives of the Government through you, Mr President, with the hope that these requests will be taken into account. This very day, a professor of biology at the University of Uppsala in Sweden came personally, on behalf of thousands of intellectuals who in recent days have mobilized themselves through an online petition, promoted by a professor who teaches in Germany, who has seen the adhesion by authoritative our personalities. We have rectors of foreign universities, rectors of Italian origin in South America; we have surgeons who have obtained authoritative recognition in Switzerland; we have journalists, people of culture. Nearly 4,000 subscribers, Italian intellectuals abroad, expression of our best foreign excellences, have mobilized. These people came personally today and, through the person of Professor Parducci, handed over nearly 4,000 signatures to the President of the Senate's Committee on Constitutional Affairs, they made a request to us - and I welcome the fact that colleagues from other political forces also wanted to accompany us in a press conference - and they appealed to the Government and the majority to return to their steps, precisely because a change that went in the direction proposed by the current reform text would be a great injustice to our Italian communities abroad. I therefore also appeal to the representatives of the other opposition forces to sign up to the amendment that we have been creating, as a Democratic Party, precisely to transpose these demands and I hope that the majority will also pay particular attention to it, because otherwise we would lose the constitutional concept of fair representation, which would be wounded and, above all, would reduce our fellow citizens abroad to B-class citizens, and this would really be an injustice that this Parliament cannot afford. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u75	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u78	BITI (PD). Mr President, exactly 574 years ago, on 5 February 1445, the little Agata Smeralda was left at the Institute for the Innocent, at the time known as the "Spedale degli Innocenti." From that moment this wonderful place is in operation in the heart of our city, Florence, and until today has welcomed about 500,000 children. In the early years it was especially welcome to abandoned children, becoming what was the first orphanage (as we know them now) even in Europe. There are beautiful stories of mothers, of families who had to abandon their children, young or older, who were received without delay by the Hospital of the Innocent, who had been wanted by the Silk Art in 1419 and whose project had been entrusted to Filippo Brunelleschi. It is for this reason, to celebrate the 600 years of this incredible institute, whose history is truly unique and wonderful, that President Mattarella will be in Florence - and it will be a great honor for us to have him in the city - next Monday. It will pay homage to this truly unique and precious structure, in which the rights of childhood and adolescence have always had the first place, where what counts are the reception, care, training of children, proximity to their families, especially to mothers. Even today this is so, because even today the Institute of the Innocent works in Florence, it welcomes poor children, children with problems, their families, their mothers. It is indeed an honour to remember in this House today, on 5 February (this coincidence is incredible), Agata Smeralda, the first girl who was welcomed and that for us Florentines is a name that recalls to memory all the children who have passed from there and not only, all the children who are still in difficulty - unfortunately we know how many are - because our city has always welcomed them all, regardless. It seemed right to bring this memory to this House and to make known this precious institution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u81	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, I take the floor at the end of the sitting because at the end of last week, in another Parliamentary Chamber, that of the House, there was an episode that I would like to stigmatize. With a reply to the question of a 5 Star Member, then of the same Movimento of the vice-premier Di Maio, the latter answered with respect to the situation of the Carige. Now, we would all have expected, because the situation of Carige is subject to a decree-law and with a situation of difficulty but also with the ability to recover, that the Vice Premier would talk about how to resolve the banking situation and how to strengthen the bank. On the other hand, there was a public prosecutorial requirement, or perhaps already a final judge, which concerned debt situations that had some important customers of the bank, also referring to a report by the Bank of Italy of two years ago, where some of these situations had already resolved. But he did so with an overall accusation to the politicians and to the old politics, putting together the names "anything," including that of personalities who had had responsibility in the bank, but who had firmly opposed to an incorrect practice of governance at the time, so much so that in that same morning it had been made known by the court of Rome not only absolution in full formula, but also with the motivation that one of these personalities, that is the former President of the Province of Genoa, had opposed the situation that was being created with difficulty. What do I want to represent here? I was disappointed and I wanted to say this in this Parliamentary House: a Vice Premier is not a Torquemada, he is not a judge, he is not a vigilante. In Genoa we have already heard, after the collapse of the Morandi bridge, the statement: "we will judge the guilty." In Italy there are already those who do this job. Those who have the responsibility to govern this country should, with much more seriousness, talk about the solutions to be given to the problems of Italy. I hope that we will no longer see these summary processes, but with a pre-requisite capacity that does not even put together correct analyses. When you want to make a political rally, you don't use the House House to do it; you go to the squares. In the Chamber we must be correct, sound and precise. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u84	THE MURA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to share a brief reflection on a tragic and recent report which, as is all too often the case, has shaken public opinion. I am referring to the murder of little Giuseppe a Cardito, in the Neapolitan, perpetrated by his mother's companion, I confess. An atrocious story that also involved Giuseppe's little sister, rescued in hospital with her face completely tumefied. In my city, Pompeii, funerals took place last Sunday. These events, unfortunately not as rare as we can imagine, conceal incredible suffering, discomfort, existential precariousness. It is a story with a thousand nuances, this one, which certainly contains the horror that can hide within the walls of any house, the physical and psychological violence that members of a family can suffer. But above all it highlights the deep loneliness in which one can fall; a loneliness that means lack of attention from the outside, from the one who looks at us; lack of care and of that sense of community that institutions can and must activate. While the media process has already started outside this House, with the typho-series on duty, we must try to understand here, because every event of this kind is a serious defeat for all of us, that somehow we should provide support to those who live dramatic situations like this, make it clear that we can ask for help, but above all make people understand that only today they denounce the abuse suffered by those children, the two little brothers of whom one died, who could have alerted social services, anti-violence centres or the competent authorities. Yet no one has done so, perhaps out of distraction, perhaps because everyone too taken from his own life, but certainly also because the instruments that the State offers are not taken into account, too weak on the territories, lacking resources and often inadequate to meet the needs of a population that, for various reasons, brings in unsolved anxieties and frustrations. These terrible cases are also the mirror of our society, a society where isolation is always greater, where everyone lives his own life not relating to the other or not activating to help him, a society that sees an increasingly widespread psychological discomfort of the weak subjects, those who in the world of the strong are increasingly marginalized. Answers that we can give as a state, answers that certainly must also be economic, but that is not enough, we must offer more support by strengthening those who deal with the psychological problems of people, better structure the services of proximity, bring out again that spirit of community and solidarity that seems to have gone into the background. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u85	We associate ourselves with the solidarity of the community of the country where the child was brutally killed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u88	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say again that I did not want to do this anymore, because it weighs like a rock on my heart, as I speak, the thought of what has happened and continues to happen, yet another case of feminicide. Marisa Sartori, twenty-five years old, who today failed to make twenty-six, because today would have been her birthday and instead died, killed with a knife to the heart, because her only fault was to fall in love with the wrong man and to change her mind, realized the error. Marisa who will be twenty-five years old forever and who lived in Curno. Curno is a small center of the hinterland of Bergamo like many, around the corner of our house, in this case two kilometers from my house, in the civil and tidy Lombardy, not a million kilometers from us, but next to us, next to me, beside other colleagues like Senator Pergreffi, like Senator Pirovano, and perhaps for this I feel even stronger. It is the second young life broken in a few days in my Province for a paradoxical reason. Love should never be a pretext for violence, but we don't talk about love here. The word love today is just the least appropriate term to use. Marisa had recently denounced her former beloved, who became her persecutor. Marisa was scared, she was worried, that's why she never moved alone, and that's why her sister Deborah, not to leave her alone, was seriously injured and in turn she is in critical condition in the hospital, massacred with stabbing. Marisa had turned to the anti-violence center, had denounced her husband, but too late and despite the fact that the carabinieri had already intervened twice for the violent actions of the man, because sometimes the fear of the consequences of a denunciation is stronger than the fear itself. Today there is a red code approved by the Council of Ministers at the end of November, although it has not yet been ratified by Parliament and it will have to be one of the priorities of this House, as Mr Salvini also said. The Red Code provides for a preferential lane for complaints, faster investigation of cases of violence against women and the obligation for prosecutors to listen to victims within three days, perhaps too many, because Marisa's husband had to be stopped before he could get close to her. Instead, the madness continues. Even yesterday morning in Vercelli another woman was physically burned by a man, who had previously also thought of beating her to make her suffer a little more. We are talking about cultural revolution and revolutions must be supported and, therefore, what I am asking today are investments on the part of the Government: in school, on education and on the Forces of Order, which must have more dedicated and trained personnel to be adequate to intervene. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Biti]] We must help the municipalities, who are left alone, and the centres of violence, which are the first sentries on the territory to protect to prevent. We have spoken a lot; let us follow the words and for this reason we will support the Government on every action. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u91	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, this is happening in Trepuzzi, in the province of Lecce, but it is undoubtedly repeatable in the vast majority of Italian municipalities. This is a question of easy resolution which, only because of the obvious lack of will of some of the actors involved, I bring to the attention of the House. On October 10, 2018 the City Councillor of the Movimento 5 Stars Massimo Scarpa presented a motion in the Council asking the Municipal Council of Trepuzzi to undertake to act impartially towards the taxpayer citizen, simply asking for the application of the provisions of Article 97 of the Constitution. In particular, it is envisaged that, in the event of a non-payment or insufficient payment of a charge, the administration concerned will automatically produce the act of verification. Following the verification, the administration informs the citizen of the possibility to claim reimbursement of the highest payment made or the compensation, in decrease, of the greater amount paid. As far as the above is concerned, Mr Scarpa was asking that the taxpayer who paid an incorrect amount in excess should be informed of the error. In addition, it specified that the operation could be done at zero cost for the administration by taking, for example, the file already prepared by the Revenue Agency and updated for the purpose without producing any information. The moral of the fairy tale is that the motion is rejected on the grounds that the request would provide for further activity for the office. It is not, but also and should it be and should non-economic human resources be committed to ensuring impartiality as the founding value of public administration, it would be right and proper for the municipal administration to make every effort to remove the situation which is a source of discrimination and to work in accordance with the constitutional principle of impartiality and transparency. To date it appears that the municipal administration of Trepuzzi is still acting in discrepancies. We trust that from now on there will be a proper repentance. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u94	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, last Wednesday I took the floor at the end of the sitting to denounce a long series of bomb attacks committed in Foggia against economic operators, in order to subject them to extortive demands and also to intimidate citizenship. This night - I am happy to be able to give some good news - there was an operation coordinated by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Foggia who engaged about 100 men of the State Police, the Carabinieri's Army and the Finance Guard. 16 alleged members of the Foggian Mafia clans were arrested, including the sons and grandchildren of bosses arrested in November during the Tenth Action operation. All in all, there are almost 100 alleged mobsters arrested from September to today and, therefore, this huge investigative result is the tangible sign of how the institutions are making a huge effort to combat organised crime. These 100 arrests clearly show that the state wins whenever it wants. Now the citizens must make a move forward: they must take courage and feel supported by the institutions. They have to report, which unfortunately has not happened in the last few years and months. In this way the defeat of the Foggia mafias will happen more quickly. I would also like to say that on Friday 8 February a delegation from the anti-Mafia Parliamentary Commission will visit Foggia to prepare a more detailed mission to be held in the coming weeks. I would like to thank the whole Commission very much for wanting to approve my proposal for a mission and for having immediately prepared the preparatory visit, which will take place next Friday. At this moment, therefore, there are all the elements and conditions are being created so that this difficult battle can be won, but we can only win it if we all fight it together. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u95	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-87.ana.u96	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, February 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.03 p.m.
