ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u2	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on document LVII, No 2-a. The rapporteur, Senator Errani, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, work has begun. I would ask you to pay attention and significantly lower your voice, or to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, whose trend and programme macroeconomic forecasts have already been validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office, is one of the key instruments of the country's economic and financial programming cycle. Article 7, paragraph 2, of the law of accounting and public finance provides for its presentation to the Chambers for subsequent parliamentary deliberations, while Article 10-a regulates its contents. These relate, in particular, to the updating of the macroeconomic forecasts of public finance; the updating of the policy objectives identified by the Economic and Finance Document; any changes and additions to the DEF resulting from the recommendations of the European Council concerning the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme; the objective of net balance to be financed from the State budget and cash balance of the State sector; the indication of the main areas of intervention of the public finance maneuver for the following three years and the indication of any related drafts of law. In accordance with Article 10-a, paragraph 6, of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, the report to the Parliament referred to in Article 6 (5) is annexed to the Update Note for 2019. With reference to the international macroeconomic scenario, the Note shows that in the first half of 2019 the slowdown in economic growth already underway since the beginning of last year has continued. This slowdown affects almost all advanced economies, especially those most exposed to the decline in investment and world trade. The most recent business surveys also show a steady weakening of economic activity over the coming months, with a significant negative impact on medium-term economic growth. The picture of the exogenous variables underlying NADEF is therefore, on the whole, less favourable than that presented in the DEF. The euro area has been strongly affected by commercial tensions, especially in countries whose production system is strongly focused on manufacturing production, such as Germany and Italy. Moreover, the economies of the area are significantly affected by the climate of uncertainty generated by Brexit and international trade tensions. As far as the Italian economy is concerned, the small recovery for 2019, after the decline in the second half of 2018, as well as the continuing substantial weakness of the economic indicators. This stagnation is determined by a very low growth in domestic demand and by the process of reducing company stocks already in place since the second quarter of 2018. A positive contribution is provided by net exports. The macroeconomic policy framework presented by NADEF takes into account the economic impact of the measures to be adopted under the next Budget Act. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u7	I'm sorry, Senator Errani, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but it's really hard for the Presidency to follow, despite your stuporeous voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u8	I would therefore like to ask everyone to really behave that is also worthy of the importance of the debate. Please, Senator Errani. Mr Errani, rapporteur. Real GDP growth is expected to be 0.1% in 2019, 0.6% in 2020, with a subsequent increase to one percent in 2021 and 2022. In particular, in 2020 the lack of increased VAT under existing legislation leads, on the one hand, to increased domestic demand and, on the other hand, to a smaller increase in consumption deflators and GDP, with a positive effect on real GDP and other macroeconomic variables, such as employment. The latter, in particular, would grow by one tenth of a point more than the trend in terms of employment and two decimal places for hours worked. NADEF then presents an update of the public finance framework to current legislation which incorporates the update of the estimates of consumption released by Istat last September. Compared to the forecasts of the DEF 2019 the estimate of net debt trend 2018 is revised upwards from 2.1 to 2.2 percent. The net debt estimate for 2019 stands at 2.2% of GDP compared to 2.4 already indicated in the DEF, due to the combined effect of improving the primary surplus and reducing interest expenditure. As for subsequent financial years, estimates of net trend indebtedness are increasing from 2% to 1.4% for 2020, from 1.8 to 1.1 percent for 2021, from 1.9 to 0.9% for 2022. These revisions reflect the slowdown in growth prospects and the effects of the main measures taken after the DEF. NADEF mentions, in particular, the adjustment of the budget and Decree-Law No 61 of 2019 on urgent measures to improve public finance balances, which showed an improvement in the nominal deficit of around 0.4 percentage points of GDP. NADEF shall also update the public finance policy framework for the period 2019-2022 and, in particular, the path towards the medium-term objective. Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012 provides that any temporary deviations from the structural balance of the programme objective are permitted in the event of exceptional events and subject to authorisation approved by Parliament by an absolute majority of the respective components, while indicating the return plan in relation to the medium-term objective. Paragraph 5 also stipulates that the return plan may be updated to the occurrence of additional exceptional events, or if, in relation to the evolution of the economic cycle, the Government intends to make changes to it. For Italy, the medium-term objective was, up to the whole of 2019, a balanced budget. Following the recent update, the new medium-term objective for Italy over the next three years is to achieve a structural surplus of 0.5% of GDP. NADEF defines an approach profile to the medium-term objective, which provides for a deterioration of the structural balance by 0.1 percentage points for 2020, as a result of measures to counter the risks arising from hydrogeological failure. In this respect, the Government intends to submit a request for flexibility to the European Commission, with reference to exceptional expenses. Compared to the programmed in the DEF 2019, the target of net policy borrowing in relation to GDP increases from 2.1 to 2.2% in 2020, remains unchanged in 2021 and improves by 0.1 percentage points in 2022. In structural terms, the balance remains unchanged in 2020 and then worsens by 0.1 percentage points in 2021 and 0.2 points in 2022. The Commission has managed to set a relatively high debt target, without creating alarm on the markets, and this has also been possible thanks to its serious and collaborative attitude towards the European Commission. The government has shown strong support for European integration, but has put a fair emphasis on the need to abandon austerity policies, in favour of support for investment growth and social and territorial cohesion. It is necessary to continue along this path, aiming at relaunching economic policies for growth. In this sense, it is important that Europe recovers a greater unity of intent, guiding a new economic policy, capable of relaunching quality growth, inclusive and sustainable development, overcoming the incompleteness of economic and monetary union and the asymmetry of fiscal policies. The completion of the banking union and economic and monetary integration must be supported, in order to contain possible future crises and to avoid the serious mistakes of the past. Another important element is the regulation of markets: internal competition on the European market on labour costs and tax policies must cease. All of this must become a priority on the European political agenda and the government in the coming years. These are the elements on which the possibilities of growth will be played and are battles in which our country is not only in Europe and the renewed protagonism of the Government can certainly lead to a position useful not only to overcome the economic situation, but to intervene on the structural elements that have generated it. The Government undertakes to resume its approach to the medium-term objective in the two-year period 2021-2022. In fact, nominal net debt is expected to be at least 1.8% in 2021 and at least 1.4% in 2022, while the corresponding structural balance would be at least 1.2% in 2021 and at least 1 percent in 2022, continuing convergence to the medium-term objective in the following years. Finally, the net balance to be financed in terms of competence is determined at a maximum of €79.5 billion in 2020, €56.5 billion in 2021 and €37.5 billion in 2022. NADEF 2019 therefore lists the main guidelines for the financial manoeuvre, such as the complete decommissioning of the increase in VAT, the financing of unchanged policies for about one tenth of a point of GDP and the renewal of some policies that expire, including Industry 4.0 incentives, ecobonus and earthquake-bonus. For the earthquake, in particular that of Central Italy, the Government undertakes to take stock of the criticalities in view of the budget law. The Government also intends to adopt new policies, which will be the first important step in a broader programme aimed at relaunching growth, the development of the Mezzogiorno and environmental sustainability. The Government intends to launch a green new deal, aimed at combating climate change, protecting biodiversity, energy conversion, boosting investment, promoting urban regeneration and smart cities. The key element of climate and energy policies is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions agreed at European level for 2030 under the Paris Agreement. The main actions: preparation of a long-term strategy for the reduction of greenhouse gas by 2050 through decarbonisation routes until climate neutrality is achieved; implementation of the national plan for the search for electrical system, a project aimed at promoting new network architectures aimed at making the electrical system more flexible and ensuring the management in safety; priority of the development of renewable sources with the implementation of the decree RES1, which provides incentives for the diffusion of photovoltaic, hydroelectric and gas purification plants. The priorities set by the government are: the reduction of the tax wedge at work; the relaunch of public investment in infrastructure; the increase of resources for education, scientific and technological research; the support and strengthening of the universal health system and welfare; support for families. An important chapter to note is that relating to the Government's commitment to reducing the tax burden. This year the tax burden was 41.9% and, without intervention, in 2020, would have risen to 42.6 because of the increases in VAT already included in current legislation. Following the budgetary manoeuvre, the tax burden in 2020 will be lower than in 2019. In addition to the cancellation of the safeguard clauses for the increase in VAT, the Document provides for a cut in the tax wedge through a draft law linked to the maneuver, which provides for a commitment estimated at 0.15 percentage points of GDP in 2020, which will rise to 0.3 points in 2021. Cutting the tax wedge is an important signal. It is a lever to expand the purchasing power of medium-low incomes, which is useful to stimulate the restarting of the internal market in consumption. In addition to this, a special draft law and a comprehensive and organic reform of personal taxes to be carried out over the three-year period will be provided. This framework outlines a serious fight against contributory evasion. Escape, estimated at some 109 billion, of which 11.4 billion is of contributory income, is central, both for a fundamental and decisive reason of equity, but also to combat unfair forms of competition. This is an essential and inescapable condition for reducing the tax burden, ensuring its progressiveness, and for adequately financing social expenditure and welfare, thus finally responding to emerging issues such as non-self-sufficiency and disability. With regard to investments, two new investment funds are expected to be allocated to the State and local and regional authorities for a total increase of 50 billion over a fifteen-year horizon, with particular emphasis on those aimed at promoting innovation, employment, environmental sustainability, green new deal, reducing the gap between the South and the North of the country and strengthening the tangible, intangible and social infrastructure. It is crucial to continue with the public administration's innovation and digitisation project and to ensure new contractual renewals by also addressing staff shortages in different sectors. This is also crucial to accelerate the investments already financed that in the 2017-2018-2019 budget laws are worth over 36 billion. On the health side, the Government is committed to supporting and relaunching the universal health system. The definition of the new health pact, the adequate financing of the LEAs, will be decisive in this respect, and I also hope that there will be no legal constraints, first and foremost on staff, who no longer have any reason to be and are a negative burden on the whole system. Among the policy lines indicated in NADEF 2019 is the desire to mitigate the inequalities present in terms of access to services and regional variability by ensuring the provision of essential levels of assistance throughout the national territory. Moreover, the will - I would say the indispensability - to overcome the superticket and to stop discrimination in access to services is confirmed, and to proceed to a progressive revision of the current system of partnership aimed at making the system more homogeneous and fair. It is the Commission's intention, on the basis of a specific point of the government programme, to launch a plan for the recovery, modernisation and extraordinary and ordinary renovation of buildings in public housing, identifying resources to be transferred to the competent territorial authorities. In order to implement this plan it is necessary to start a national mapping of existing buildings aimed at their reuse for public housing. A comprehensive and systematic project to support and enhance families and the birth rate is included among the policies to relaunch the economy, as a draft law linked to the maneuver. Support instruments will be introduced to support the parenthood and participation of women in the labour market, including through easier access to childcare services, to remedy gender inequalities. The transposition of the European Directive on paternity leave and reconciliation between work and private life and the adoption of measures to support the education of children and the frequency of daycare, as well as measures to support the birth rate and specific fiscal measures for the weakest families and the presence of persons with disabilities is indicated. With regard to public education, the role of teachers is to be exploited, even economically. Of particular importance is the strengthening of the national plan for school construction and the willingness to guarantee, together with the Regions, the gratuitousness of kindergartens and micro-nids, for medium and low incomes, extending their offer especially in the Mezzogiorno, a measure of particular importance for families and for our society. We are faced with an expansive maneuver that represents a first step in a broad and ambitious programme, implemented gradually, to meet the needs of economic support for the pursuit of financial sustainability. Overall, the funding resources for the actions foreseen in the 2020 budget maneuver are almost 0.8% of GDP. The coverage will be ensured by the following areas of action: measures to make public expenditure more efficient, as well as revision or deletion of existing regulatory provisions in relation to their effectiveness or priority, for saving more than 0.1 percentage points of GDP. It is important in this sense that the Minister of Economy and Finance has translated the word review as a redevelopment of spending and not as a cut in spending, because it is clear that there is a problem of taxation in the country, but there is a problem of reducing resources for welfare in relation to GDP. So the expenditure review cannot reduce services and overall welfare resources. It should be noted that public expenditure on goods and services between 2018 and 2019 fell in proportion to the size of the Italian economy from 8.3 percent to 8.2 percent. The intervention of spending review, or redevelopment of expenditure, must finally be linked to the definition of the essential levels of performance (LEP). It is a fundamental choice, which cannot be postponed any longer, because it is a necessary guarantee of a universalist welfare and also for the implementation of differentiated autonomy in accordance with the constitutional dictation. The cover will then ensure new measures to combat tax evasion and fraud, as well as measures to recover tax revenue, including through the interweaving of databases and a greater spread of the use of traceable payment instruments, for a total increase in revenue of 0.4 per cent of GDP; reduction of tax and subsidies harmful to the environment and new environmental taxes, which on the whole would increase revenue by about 0.1 per cent of GDP; other tax measures, including the extension of the substitute tax on the revaluation of land and equity, for more than 0.1 percentage points. As for public debt, for 2019 the government expects a debt-to-GDP ratio of 135.7%, an increase of 0.9 percentage points compared to the previous year. Instead, the DEF estimated a ratio of 132.6 percent. The difference is due to the higher debt resulting from statistical revisions, the lower nominal GDP growth than expected and the failure to realise the proceeds from privatisations assumed by the previous Government to the extent of 1% of GDP. These worsening factors in the ratio were only partly offset by the improvement factors represented by the improvement of the primary surplus compared to the estimates and by the very significant figure of the lower interest expenditure and the lower cash requirements of the public sector. In the following three years, the combination of a reduction in public sector liquidity needs, nominal GDP growth and privatisation revenues will bring the debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward path: 135.2% in 2020, 133.4% in 2021 and 131.4% in 2022. The Government reiterates in the Update Note of the 2019 Economy and Finance Document the will to ensure the sustainability of public debt, confirmed by the descending profile assumed by the debt-to-GDP ratio in the programming horizon, although critical in compliance with the debt rule also related to the need to ensure adequate resources for economic growth. According to current legislation, in the DEF Update Note, the Government is required to make observations and any changes and additions to the DEF in relation to the recommendations of the Council of the European Union concerning the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. The NADEF also updates information on the state of implementation of the reforms outlined in the National Reform Programme contained in the DEF 2019 and sets out the policy objectives of the new Government. The Government specifies that the strategy outlined in the Update Note will be implemented from the next Budget Act. Since the start of the new Government coincides with the start of the new European Commission, NADEF also includes an illustration of the Government's commitments in Europe, mainly to strengthen economic governance in order to facilitate, in addition to the priorities examined below, the implementation of a sustainable investment plan as well as the completion of the economic and banking union. The Government also prioritises the objective of reforming the Stability and Growth Pact, with the aim of avoiding pro-cyclical effects and supporting investment, implementing the European Pillar of Social Rights and strengthening policies to combat tax evasion. These objectives present many points of contact with the specific recommendations addressed by the European Council to Italy. The update notes are annexed to the reports on investment expenditure and related multi-annual laws, the planmatic report on fiscal expenditure interventions, the report on the results achieved on measures to combat tax and tax evasion, the report on the unobserved economy and on tax and contribution evasion. Finally, with regard to the related draft laws, the Note states that 22 measures relating to the issues mentioned in the report relate to budgetary decisions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u9	I remember that the annex to the Update Note contains the report pursuant to article 6, paragraph 5, of Law No 243 of 2012, which illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. Pursuant to Article 6, paragraphs 3 and 5, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan shall be adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of address: the first, relating to the report referred to in Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Update Note to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u10	Mr President, given the physical proximity that you still have with the Democratic Party, I shall try to make an intervention which does not give in to the easy denunciation of what is for me a measure which lacks an overall vision and a basic concreteness; I say this, Mr President, with great esteem for the rapporteur, who has just finished his speech. I am not just referring to the issue of VAT safeguard clauses, which are only postponed, or to the 7 billion recovery of tax evasion, which seems to me to be a figure aimed at returning the accounts to what public policies can actually do in the next twelve months. However, I would like to strongly denounce the level of insustainability, inconsistency and distance from the real issues of the country of this Update Note. I will try in a few minutes to list what we are dealing with. We continue with the mantra of discontinuity, but I tell the government that there is a political problem with this. The mantra of discontinuity would expect to intervene on the security decrees or on the 100 quota or on the income of citizenship or on the votes on the cut of the parliamentarians; in short, something not already seen in the previous fourteen months should be brought to the attention of the Italians, even in terms of measure; otherwise, the doubt is that to the votes of Salvini we have replaced those of the Democratic Party and of Italy Viva, if nothing changes on the level of actions and measures. By addressing my colleagues in the Democratic Party, with whom we have shared battles from these benches, I wonder how it is possible to confirm the citizenship income, that is, a measure that today, according to the investigations of the Finance Guard, the reports of the INPS and the analyses that are provided (so it is not a political polemic), 60% sees an irregular use, in a shadowy area (it is not the Parliament's responsibility to make investigations) already assumed and sanctioned, but that above all - here is the political data - sees no real job rebound. It confirms the measure that we have denounced from these benches and that discourages the work. In fact, everyday stories of entrepreneurs who, in the face of job offers, are told by the children: no, thank you, I keep the income of citizenship. It is therefore an instrument that proposes assistance and knows now certified abuses. One more question: I understand the element of continuity, not so much of the policies, because I would be disconcerted, but on the subject of the keeping of public accounts; but confirming quota 100, which is addressed to those who already have a job and retire a few thousand Italians a few months earlier, for a public expenditure of 8.5 billion, is a frankly incomprehensible choice. I'm not saying that in this case either, just because of opposition. President Errani has spoken - which I define as a continuation of my previous life - with whom we have been working in the Health Commission these days. According to data from the National Federation of Medical Surgeons and Dentisters, 8,000 doctors are missing in Italy. We train 10,000 doctors a year, but there are no resources for scholarships. In fact, the resources for scholarships would be there, but we use them to retire people who already have a job and have a deficit, not certified by Richetti or by Parliament, of 8,000 doctors and 30,000 nurses. It is fine then to go on television and shout that we are for the universalism of health and school, but a recognized right must be made payable. When 8,000 doctors and 30,000 nurses are missing, three or four million Italians - always according to the data of the Higher Institute of Health - are forced to give up treatment either for waiting times or for the cost and out-of-pocket, that is, the share with which the Italians contribute from their own pocket to the cures, increases gradually, even if the right to the cure is universally recognized in the first place by our Constitution, there is a huge problem, relative to how much it is payable. Mr President, with a quota of 100 doctors will decrease further, because someone will use the possibility of leaving the state of employment, and will increase a requirement that we are not responding to. Yesterday I began in the Health Commission - and I thank the colleagues with whom I started working - and I pointed out the words of the Government representative, to be sure to tell them exactly (but the reports will be published, as for all the major European institutions): the priorities of this Government on the health issue are the recognition of the role of ageing, to mitigate - not to eliminate, because here there is no demagogy - the inequalities between North and South and to work on the topic of sustainability. If anyone finds half an element of concreteness he is better than me, because I see the reference to a count who is not the President of the Council, but another one named Mascetti (but I try not to expire in low-profile elements). Meanwhile, if you search on Google - which is accessible to all - health news from September 23rd to October 5th, you will read that the Hospital of the Sea of Naples, inaugurated five times, is flooded; the department of Psychiatry of the Hospital of Borgo Trento is flooded; the Hospital of San Donà di Piave is flooded. In short, there is no need for an intervention on the school. Everyone turns Italy like me: in the middle of the country full time does not exist; the kids are on the street, with the crisis of educational agencies and a school building that with the previous Government we started to settle, but that is still deeply insufficient. There are no investments on this, because there are VAT, 100 quota and citizenship income. One last note, before I was silent, because I used more than the time available to me: with the Democratic Party, in the last 14 months, we have waged a battle for thousands of guys recognized as fit in the competition for police officers. You will remember when, with a raid through an amendment, the majority changed the cards in order, preventing to start working to some guys who are already in ranking and could be agents of our police (which we often remember how in deficit on the level of the staff). Now that there is a different majority, I hope that at least on this point, in terms of practicality, will be remedied. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u11	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, no one had told us that it would be easy, but it is certainly worthwhile to be here and try: so we are, in balance on sustainability. This is the word that characterizes the current difficult moment, when the maneuver must stand in balance between various forces and pushed into a very complex macroeconomic framework, with twenty new protectionists, in compliance - of course not uncritical - with European rules, with a very difficult and heavy economic and financial legacy and, rightly, with respect first of all for the needs of people, families, workers and businesses. What keeps us in balance at this moment is precisely the vision and the desire that this majority share to restore Italy. Let's start with the Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document (NADEF), which someone calls shy. We, rather than overdoing, like to do, so we start from the three priorities we gave ourselves: the first was sterilizing VAT, and we did so; the second is starting from validated data (the Parliamentary Budget Office, contrary to what it did with NADEF last year, validated our project, macroeconomic, trend and programmatic data), putting the path back on track towards the medium-term objective. It seems to us that being on the ground is a good departure from the recent past. The maneuver opens up a future budget law of about 30 billion, of which almost 15 are in deficit. We know that, compared to a trend scenario of 1.4, we arrive at a programmatic of 2.2. This means that this is irrefutably an expansive maneuver. Some people call it timidly expansive, perhaps because 8 of those 15 billion we had to invest them to sterilize the VAT safeguard clauses. We know that 23 out of the 30 billion of the maneuver (i.e. 75% of its resources) are dedicated to sterilizing the safeguard clauses. It is a very heavy legacy, which we obviously take not only, but mainly from the last Government: it must be clear to everyone that on 1 January 2020 VAT would be 24.5%; Today, thanks to this Government, at least the ordinary rate will remain at 22%. The government lives in balance - we are aware of this - on interest rates. This means - it must be clear first of all to the majority - that, apart from the exogenous variables, it depends on our behavior, our credibility, our will to do what is said, on the ability to explain first of all in Europe why we need the greater flexibility we demand and on the ability to weave strong European and international relations. The success for Italy goes through two important challenges, but they are within our reach: one is the fight against tax evasion; the other is the restoration of a path to monitoring public expenditure. Surely they are not themes of 40,000 like, but, net of likes and dislikes, it serves to start from the fundamentals. As far as tax evasion is concerned, the 7 billion out of 109 of the black economy is certainly an ambitious objective, but within our reach, because technological instruments are also there. From the point of view of the underlying philosophy, what needs to be done is to observe the submerged, without becoming fierce about the emerging, and to encourage the most virtuous behaviour of taxpayers, pushing for fiscal transparency. So we need fewer presumptive tools and more compliance tools. As far as spending is concerned, the spending review papers must inevitably be withdrawn, as an act of justice towards the many virtuous behaviors of taxpayers who pay their taxes regularly: it is the only way to lower the tax burden, as we will do in 2020. What I would like to urge the Government is an issue that concerns two chasms of the Italian economy, not born last year of course, but historical: the denatality and the low employment of women. We are the penultimate in Europe. Until we remove this debate from the rights field alone and bring it back to the economic sphere, which is his responsibility, we will not be able to reverse the trend nor to bring the accounts back to full sustainability and Italy to that growth in female employment which would lead GDP to increase by 7%. To conclude, let's see it this way: we need to open our eyes, see and face phenomena for what they are, net of any kind of ideology. No one would have said it would be easy, but we chose to say yes and we are here to start with the most important things. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u12	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u13	Mr President, I will focus on the part that I consider essential of this manoeuvre and, in particular, on the major environmental innovations and the fight against climate change that this Government has finally put at the heart of its planning and activity. Of course, this new scenario is also possible because at European level there has been the necessary qualitative leap that we have been waiting for for a long time: fortunately, in Europe they have lost the populists and the sovereignists; I am referring in particular to the forces of our country that supported those projects - crazy, obviously - also for national interests and those political forces (such as the League) that in our country, from populists and sovereignists, in the fourteen months of government have become even nationalist, even with rather disturbing authoritarianism traits. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is demonstrated, among other things, by all alliances with countries such as Hungary, whose Head of Government, allied with Salvini, defines, practice and theorizes illiberal democracy, which goes against the rights of people and associations, in short, the basic rights. Having said that, it is quite clear that the European vote last May finally defined a totally different Europe, which, in words and in the first acts of government planning, has taken on board the real global emergency, namely the climate crisis. The new President of the European Commission has defined, in the plan 2021 to 2027, the need for an investment of 1,000 billion at Union level and we are particularly proud that the Commissioner who will take particular care and govern these investments will be Gentiloni Silveri. It has done more, however: the European Commission has also established that every single member of the Commission has, within its programming, the issue of sustainability as an essential objective. You see, colleagues, objectively there has been - it would be wrong not to recognize it - a qualitative leap from the Count 1 to 2. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to remind the friends of the League - who now do their work, that of the opposition - that it was objectively difficult for such a government to imagine different policies in environmental terms. The League, moreover, two years ago even voted against the Paris Agreement, in absolute minority compared to the 610 votes in favour: the four Legist votes, including those of Salvini and Fontana, who even opposed the Paris Agreement, had as a consequence the impossibility, by the national government of which they were shareholders, to do something good for our country. We have seen it, for example, with the impossibility of signing the Sibiu Declaration on the timing of emission reductions or environmentally decisive contributions. But we also saw it in the 2019 budget, in which the only environmental interventions were the extensions of operations put in place by previous governments (ecobonus, renovations, purchase of large appliances, efficiency, etc.). Unfortunately, we have also seen this in the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan. According to the European climate foundation, our plan was ranked 17th on 28 (with a score of 26.9 out of 100). As I said, the Count government finally put the bar straight. The Government agreement, in particular in points 7, 8, 9 and also in 6 (which concerns the regeneration of the cities), provides that for the government forces that wanted to give a steering and hope to the future of our country the climate, the environment, sustainability, work, innovation and progress are absolutely at the center. Last week, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian Alliance for Sustainable Development presented countless data. One, which is very significant, has remained in my mind: companies that have invested in environmental sustainability have had an added value of more than 20% compared to the average. Environmental sustainability is not about a niche - perhaps of extremism, as some would like - but rather a fundamental philosophy, which goes through innovation, progress and the possibility of competing on the national and international market and of creating jobs and growth for all. This is the result of the objectives included in this programme, which are made up of NADEF: half-life by 2030 and zeroing by 2050 of emissions; the progressive and responsible exit from fossil fuels, finally entering the era of renewables and energy efficiency; the theme of mitigation, but also of climate adaptation; the blocking of land consumption; the regeneration of cities; sustainable mobility and the circular economy. I would like to remind you that, after a year and a half lost, we can say that the new majority has managed to reach an extraordinary agreement on the end of waste, in particular on solid urban waste, but also on industrial and special waste. Next week, in the decree-law on corporate crises, there will be the possibility to demonstrate to the country that the ability to sit at the table and find solutions is addressed to the good of the country. I would like to focus on the social and territorial management of cohesion. The issue of transition, necessary in our country, also concerns inclusiveness and fairness. We are not pasdarans and we know very well that the energy transition must not be talked about, but realized, and that this also has consequences in the economic revisitation of the productive and social system. Let us say that the energy transition - and therefore environmental attention - must go hand in hand, side by side, with social equity. The result, in conclusion: the 50 billion that in fifteen years are already made available in this government maneuver; the action plan for environmental tax reform; the application of minimum environmental criteria; the intervention on hydrogeological failure; the mitigation and adaptation, as I said before; the ordinary maintenance of the territories essential issue in our country (there are important works of great size, but also the ordinary ones, in the absence of which happen disasters); finally, a balanced and responsible revisitation of the subsidies harmful to the environment. Each year at world level, countries invest about $5,000 billion in subsidies that go against the environment. Knowing that they intercept productive activities of various kinds (transport, agriculture and so on), responsibly we start a path through which, while the harmful subsidies are reduced, those favorable to the environment are strengthened. That is exactly the way forward and we will take it together. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Siri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u15	Mr President, reading the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document, it is clear that the Government is going in the opposite direction, at least in the matter of direct taxes, compared to what we had begun to do with the last Government (i.e. working on a structural reform of the Italian tax system, introducing concrete elements in favour of the self-employed and VAT consignments, which involved 2 million workers, and a single tax rate at 15%, specifically concerning VAT consignments with a turnover of up to 65,000 euros). I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government to clarify as soon as possible what it intends to do with these 2 million workers waiting to understand their fate. We had begun a process of structural reform which provided for a second phase, which should have been for families: the proposal remains valid for us. There is a need for structural reform of the tax system, not small palliative facts from time to time of bonuses, alms and measures that leave the time they find and are misplaced. We need structural reform that goes beyond the tax system, which, as we know, was born into its structure in the early 1970s. We had already proposed and were working, even with colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, on a flat tax for families at 15%, introducing the innovation of family income: the tax would no longer be obtained only with the individual taxpayer, but the whole household would have been subject to tax; 15% would have been applied with a system of deductions inversely proportional to income and directly proportional to the members of the household. This would create the opportunity for 10 million households to see an average tax saving of €2,000 per year. This investment required courage, because we had estimated a first 13 billion tranche, and it is clear that it would bring the level of deficit-GDP ratio rather than 2.2%, as proposed by the government, to 2.8. However, the measure would have acted on the causes of the problem: in order to resolve the issue of stagnation and the possible economic recession we cannot continue to act only on a symptomatic level; we cannot continue to cure the symptoms of the disease by forgetting the causes. Our proposal would then serve as an antibiotic to solve the causes. True, the antibiotic costs more than aspirin, but its effects are curative and definitive, not symptomatic palliative, so it ends the effect and then returns the symptom of the disease that has not been cured. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So we continue to believe that that should be the direction, but of course it takes courage. You have included in the Update Note an intervention on direct taxes of 0.1% on GDP, about 2.7 billion euros, which you support serve to intervene on the wedge, that you do not know exactly what this wedge is. Use two types of definitions: one from the OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) and one from ISTAT. A number of elements are contained in these definitions. Do you want to intervene in the employer's social security costs? Or the worker's? Or rather about the taxes that this pays on the tax level? It's not clear. It is not clear where you want to intervene with this little money. You are making fun of companies or workers, because it is clear that with EUR 2.7 billion you will not be able to do everything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then there is another point that leaves me a little puzzled, always concerning the issue of VAT matches. You do not want to confirm the measure we had taken in favour of the self-employed, raising the turnover ceiling from 65,000 to 100,000 euros, to still give oxygen to all these workers, who are equal to the others. I've heard considerations that are completely un Logical. Some people want to compare the employee's income tax with that on VAT turnover. It is not in heaven, nor on earth. How do you do that? Although both have the same reference tax base, it is clear that the employee and the VAT-coded worker have a different income. In fact, 78 per cent who remain in the hands of the flat-rate VAT number must then absorb a series of deductions not provided for by the lump sum. It is also clear that the treatment for VAT is not inclusive of illness, holidays, maternity, paid leave and a whole range of things that are planned and already included in the employee's net income. Let's think of a worker with VAT who works as a plasterboard, getting up in the morning at 6 a.m. and coming home at 9 p.m. How many hours did you work? Not eight, but fourteen or sixteen, maybe even on Saturday or Sunday, to recover with the client. How do you do a parallel of this kind? That's not possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is not possible to continue attacking the self-employed, considering them all presumed evaders. Only the little ones are always attacked, when one forgets that in this country the evasion - you have certified it, says the Revenue Agency - concerns not the small ones, but the multinationals, that carry out from the country 24 billion turnover, with a damage certified to the treasury of 7 billion euros. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Go find the money from those who really take them away and not from the poor people who have to make ends meet. This is the ideological approach that takes us away from the Update Note under consideration. I have heard the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Gualtieri, say that there is a need to check the criticalities with regard to the VAT flat-rate. I'd like you to check the criticalities of your bonuses first. There is a reflection that I share with you, which perhaps you haven't thought about, you haven't thought about or missed, on the theme of the Renzi bonus, the famous 80 euros. Did you say that the spouse of a family group who may earn 100,000 euros a year gets access to it, while she gets 20,000? This is a subject: I do not know if you are going to intervene, since we are always talking about fairness and fairness, as well as the need to punish the rich. In addition, you confuse the fiscal instrument with one of social welfare, but they are two completely different things. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Aimi]] The tax system has two types of tools, one of which serves to reduce taxes to those who pay them - and too many - and should not be used as a social tool to give the bonus or cheque. Those in poverty and difficulty must be helped, but in another way, without resorting to taxes and taxes. The instrument has another purpose: to be used as the only lever of anti-cyclical policy that we have left, in the absence of monetary policy. If we do not reduce taxes in order to put money back in the pockets of consumers, citizens and taxpayers in order to restart consumption - so production and work - what kind of anti-cyclical policy have we done? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We did nothing with EUR 2.7 billion. We need courage, what this government obviously does not have. In fact, it was enough to be convinced in Europe (and I do not want to think that the European Union is against, and so on): it is clear, however, that if you are the first not to be, you will get nothing (and I repeat, it is obvious and in fact). Finally, there are 7 billion recovery of evasion: something that, if we had written it, would probably have been required mandatory health treatment. How, in fact, can we talk about 7.2 billion recovery of evasion? Come on, that's not possible. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the ten minutes I have now, of course, there is no time to analyse all the document that the rapporteur has presented, but it seems to me from the Note that a lot of things are being done with little money. It almost looks like a lottery, and that's probably why someone's talking about lottery receipts. The point, however, is that Italians do not need a race of luck, but certainty and concreteness for their future, which, according to what you have written in the DEF Update Note, you are not able to guarantee. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u17	Dear President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this House and in the Commission, in the statements made by the Members of the Commission and in the debates I always hear of the fight against evasion: I did not believe that, as a senator, I would have had this as the first of the problems. We are now talking about picking up an additional 7.2 billion from this activity, which does not correspond to the optimistic vision of politics that Forza Italia has and that Berlusconi has had in his intuition: one cannot live in the fiscal tension. An Italian citizen who has his own business, when he wakes up in the morning and pulls up the shutter, cannot think that every gesture he makes has not a dangerous and not normal fiscal aspect. We must then take this mentality out of the way, which tries to extrinsize itself in persecutory activities. I believe that it is necessary, even in the perspective of budgetary law, to shock the economy, to restore desire and freedom to undertake. Too many tax rules, in their complexity, lend themselves to interpretations; instead, if they consolidate, they give time to the economy to settle down and to produce its effects, to work and create that wealth that we rightly want to redistribute. The choices of Italy, in the presence of the huge public debt, unfortunately force us to screw on it and then, when we go to Europe, regardless of the type of negotiation, we are already weaker. Perhaps we need to change our minds and - I repeat - give a shock. I say to the Undersecretary present in this House, from whom I have heard sensible statements in recent days, that there is a lot of remaining commitments in the budget for unimplemented and unfulfilled works and appropriations. A nice cleanliness that punishes those who have been inactive - because it makes no sense for them to remain firm of the funds for years - would, in my opinion, already constitute a financial (as it was once called) of all respect. Then there is the question of VAT, so the safeguard clause has been sterilized and therefore the increase for 2021, although I understand that it will be implemented, albeit halved, in the following years of the multiannual period. We have then heard about remodulation and selective increases, which concern me a great deal, even though the Minister said yesterday that perhaps there will be no increase. Acting on the increase in VAT has an inflationary effect, as the fathers of the economy have taught us since its introduction in 1973, when it was said that it had an inflationary effect by its very nature. Today we are looking for inflation. Even Dragons and the ECB, after having persecuted and punished her for years, have realized that inflation - which years ago, based on old economic theories, was considered physiological up to 2% - today much lower, in the presence of lower interests, would have a positive effect. I am not in favour, because it would complicate life and lead to a decrease in consumption, but I would propose to the Government, which will then decide how to do, a form of search for an inflation rate within the physiological limits, but with something more, that helps to reduce the debt. I have heard of ecobonus, which will be the subject of the budget law, in the measure of 1,500 or 2,000 euros dry, as tax credit or in other form, for the dismantling of vehicles up to Euro 4. If it is a sustainable measure - and in my view it is - I think it is a good one. I have heard of the cadastral revision, but there is no trace of it anymore, because the Secretary here said on television that there is no such thing and I would advise that we do not talk about it. It would be nice to do the cadastral revision, but in these times we are witnessing auctions of real estate, for actions brought by creditors or banks, which are assigned to ridiculous figures. With the exception of the center of Rome and other great cities and some tourist resorts, in the rest of Italy unfortunately the real estate market is again - or perhaps always has been - in severe crisis. Unfortunately, I have to move on to the conclusion of my speech. We have been talking for a long time about the revision of expenditure: is it possible that we have not done it or that it is not feasible? Too much review and too much competitiveness, however, lead to a drop in quality and delays in the implementation of the work. I think we need to use the broadest discretion. Mr. Undersecretary, what do you say about the drilling for gas extraction in Puglia, which we do not carry out, but which we let the Greeks do, who will also suck our gas and sell us at a very expensive price? What do we say about the US duties on China, without mentioning the European duties on China, which already exist? If they can do harm - although, in my opinion, in the equalization of the market, there will be no damage - they could, however, be compensated by the elimination of sanctions against Russia. What do you say about negative interest on deposits and loans (a Danish bank started borrowing at negative rates)? How are banks gonna have budgets that still have profits and don't have any problems? Having said that, we need a general vision, in my opinion liberal and tempered by the right environmental requirements (today very fashionable, but real), if realistic, and redistributive, according to the social doctrine of the Church. However, we must produce wealth, to divide it, while here it seems to me that, unfortunately, we divide debt and poverty. These are the advice of a senator to take this into account in the budget law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u18	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u19	Mr President, I have listened with great interest to Senator Errani's report and also, of course, to the debate. I would like to remind Senator Siri that of course we need courage, but above all we need a budget and I gladly remember that we also need seriousness. It takes seriousness, because Italy and Europe of this time live a season of end-of-cycle, that is, the end of the robust growth of the past years, but at the end of this cycle Italy is also a year of extraordinary stagnation. When President Conte, in this House, announced that the year that would come, namely 2019, would be wonderful, perhaps he was referring to a year that is yet to come. On the other hand, there has been a year of stagnation, which has led to a vertical fall in investment, zero growth and, above all, has dissolved Italy from a happy and productive link with the rest of the European Union. We will of course wait for the documents, but in the Update Note the indispensable thing, which the Government will have to do, is to draw a path, which I imagine should be linked above all to the reconstruction of a civic and social network, which was literally broken down by the previous Government. That is why, Mr Undersecretary, my opinion (and I hope that my reading has been mistaken) is that all that concerns further penalizations of the middle class, further partial and lacking interventions aimed at tearing out and reducing poverty areas in this country must, on the contrary, be caught on the contrary. No penalties and more robust interventions, because these areas must be limited and limited. Let me suggest a constant in the history of the economy. When history climbs along such delicate hairpin bends, there is a need, above all, for more State, no less State. More State, which seeks to address the problems and the major issues that are particularly troubling those who are in a situation of difficulty. Italy presents two of these conditions in a particular way. Those weaker areas that have widened over time and, above all, a deficit within human capital that concerns training and knowledge that, if not filled, risks taking us truly to the edge of the abyss. I'm going to the numbers. The maneuver we are aware of is about EUR 30 billion. If we remove what is needed to heal and dissolve the VAT node and 4.5 billion compulsory expenditure, investment remains between 2.5 and 3 billion. These are, more or less, the numbers, I hope absolutely revisionable, that we are facing. These are modest figures, which will have a very low impact on GDP to date, even with some problematic coverage. Three comments, Mr Secretary, and I shall conclude. The first is that, if you tackle how you deal with the core of the tax wedge, my opinion is that you have to take and transfer within the Economic and Financial Document the proposal that has been made by the triple trade union in a choral way. The intervention is correct that there is, it is right that there is and it is right that it has the necessary measures and quantities for it to really be an incisive and fair measure. The second is that, when we talk about tickets, I suggest, knowing well the experience of my Region, Tuscany, that, instead of looking at tax returns, it is considered indispensable to use the family ISEE; otherwise we risk adding to forms of injustice and penalty other forms of injustice. With the ISEE, perhaps, you can have a more real picture of the living conditions of individual families. The last question, Mr President, concerns a subject which is very often referred to in this House. This is the issue of combating tax evasion. I would like to suggest that the central point is the multinationals, with the multinationals in charge of the Network, which have a terrible escape, to which there has been far too much tolerance on the part of the European Union and within the tax havens of the European Union. I welcome, however, in conclusion, the recovery, at least in the Document approved yesterday within the 8th Senate Commission, of that part of infrastructure investments, amounting to 16 billion euros, which the previous Government had postponed by at least two years. Priority will be re-examined, work will be produced and, above all, an Italian infrastructure network will be set up in the coming years, indispensable for its safety and growth. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u20	Mr President, allow me first of all to make a joke about the intervention that we have just heard from Senator Siri, who has come here to give us lessons on how to build financial documents, on what are the priorities and who has explained to us, even, that the small evaders are the poor people who cannot make ends meet. You see, Senator Siri, we think the poor are the honest ones, the ones who try to do things by the rules and by the laws. Probably - I say this as a joke, as a guarantee as I am and I am convinced that you too think like me - we have a somewhat different idea of legality and honesty in this House, and we are obviously sorry about that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Having said that, I will try to focus on the points I know most closely and which I have followed most in matters of my own competence, which are health and health. These are issues which, in my opinion, are dealt with in this Amending Note in an important way and which we hope - as we have written in the Commission's opinion - will be even more closely reflected and concrete in the budget law. For us, the points addressed are fundamental. I start from the theme that we care more about, which is that of the universalistic value of the Health Service, of how fundamental it is, in a country like ours - and it is one of our founding values - that access to health services is the same for all citizens. Precisely from this fundamental assumption, we point out, within the Update Note, some points on which we need to work more and which we feel to share. The first is, in fact, the reduction of inequalities between the various regions, an issue that we had already addressed in the past and which sees the need to ensure uniform essential levels of assistance (LEA) in all regions at national level. There are still too many disparities and differences: we saw a few months ago, when the health decree in Calabria was dealt with in this House, and according to the regions, the situation is different. I believe that this must be one of the fundamental points, because if we talk about universalistic service, this must be, of course, universal and homogeneous throughout the national territory, because there cannot be a person who is assisted less depending on the region where she was born and that we must consider this an element of luck or bad luck. We do not believe that this can be possible in relation to our Constitution. Another issue that is very close to our heart is the issue of the ageing population in part. The fact that people, on national territory, age and age well is, in itself, a positive fact, a sign of the health of the population, but obviously leads to a difficulty in providing services. I say this also with reference to the relationship between hospitals and territory, to the relationship between the care of acuzie within the hospital health service and the many chronic diseases, more and more present, because more typical of the elderly, on which once there could be hospital care that today is no longer there, because they are clearly entrusted to the territory as they cannot be occupied beds for chronic diseases of this nature. On this we must see more investment, including in the relationship of care and in the relationship between health and social assistance, that is, in all that system of services that can help the increase of territorial structures. I am thinking about pharmacies and services, health homes, all those mechanisms that can somehow enrich the territory. I believe that these are points on which we must focus. Besides that, there are all the other issues I simply remember for titles because my time is running out. Health promotion and prevention for us must be absolutely increased. A real investment must be made on innovation, including in health care: computerization of systems can lead to savings and greater efficiency within the whole health system. Finally, there is a commitment to overcome the superticket with a law linked to the budget law; there is a commitment to a law against food offences. There are a number of measures that we are committed to. In our opinion we have highlighted one aspect (and I address in particular to my former colleague, Senator Richetti, who, having been part of our Group until a few days ago, should know the battles we have fought together) which concerns specialization grants: on which there is a commitment of my Group to work for a strong increase of specialists, residents and doctors of general medicine. There is an economic commitment, already foreseen, to health structures. We have been careful on these issues for a long time and we will continue to monitor why these measures reach the fund in the best possible way. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u21	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a surreal climate we are today discussing the DEF Update Note of this new Government; a government that finally likes independent audit bodies yesterday; a government that likes the markets; a government that finally likes Europe; a government that today admits that the restrictive and austerity manoeuvres of the past have had negative effects; a government in which the force currently dragging and then equally dragging today admits that Italy finally needs expansive manoeuvres. Yes, because Europe too is talking about expansive maneuvers today. Today, talking about a deficit of 2.2% is no longer a scandal: it is a brilliant intuition. But I wonder why last year we climbed the 1.6% requested by the European Commission and then got the green light at 2.04? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Why was the weather so hostile to our common sense recipes during the hearings the other year? The other year, yes, terrorism was used on the possible effects of our maneuver and today the members of that same political force that implemented the restrictive maneuvers ask us not to cheer for failure. The reality is that, despite the growing difficulty of the international economic situation and, in particular, of the euro area, Italy is solid. In 2019 the first effects of our maneuver began to be felt: other than, as the Minister says, capturing Italy for hair! The public finance estimates in the July adjustment showed an improvement in balances compared to the forecasts contained in the DEF 2019 and a nominal deficit in line with the target set by the fiscal law 2019, although in a macroeconomic situation worse than that expected in December 2018. The European Commission also had to recognise a structural improvement of 0.2 percentage points on 3 July, judging the path towards the medium-term target (MTO) that was met for 2019. But today I'm very worried. NADEF is a frame, but I am very concerned about what is mentioned within this picture, which would like to announce an expansive maneuver, but which I fear hides the usual sin of the left: taxes and restrictions always on the usual [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Within this framework, provision is made for the decommissioning of safeguard clauses (and all right, provided that the worrying reference to a remodulation of VAT is clarified) and the reduction of the tax wedge: this is also a common point, but we are talking about workers (all right) and not companies. There is also talk of green new deal; excellent, we save the environment, but behind the roboating announcements hides the cut of environmentally harmful subsidies (you do not know which or how) and this is a very dangerous ground for the Italian economy and especially for our farmers. All these beautiful things you want to finance, among other things, with 7 billion recovery from the fight against tax evasion, to be implemented with the restriction on the use of cash and facilitating the use of credit cards. It is, on the one hand, the usual gift to the banks and, on the other hand, a clear restrictive consumer policy and the vicious continue not to lose it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Meanwhile, you are busy dismantling our measures: you have already announced that the flat tax between 65,000 and 100,000 euros will no longer be done. Colleagues, I fear that this frame will be filled with a maneuvering of tears and blood, demonstrating that not only is the spoil not lost, but it is also contagious! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u24	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I shall address some aspects of the 11th Commission's competence. I must point out, moreover, that the current government, supported by a different majority, essentially confirms all the measures of the previous Executive, so we see that with respect to citizenship income and at 100 we are in the presence of a substantial reposition for next year. The only concrete measure that concerns work is the cutting of the tax wedge, a measure that has always been supported by us at Forza Italia. To implement it, 0.15 per cent of GDP should be used since the second half of 2020, thus 2.7 billion euros to be attributed to an audience of 10 million workers with incomes below 26,000 euros per year. They are the same beneficiaries of Matteo Renzi's 80 euro bonus, but the amount should be half: from the 80 euros of Renzi to the 40 euros of Conte, which I imagine - and I hope - are for this number of workers to be judged additional. However, I would like to point out that it will be the middle-class households who will pay. I am talking about households and not income because they are often mono-redditional households that are located in the 55,000 euros, that is about 2,300 euros net per month and that are responsible for 58 percent of the Irpef, although they represent only 12% of the number of taxpayers. Obviously, in fact, this move to cut the tax wedge is not introduced to zero and these 2.7 billion will be taken through the revision of the fiscal expenditure, thus reducing for the middle class the possibility to deduct and deduct certain expenses. Returning to the maneuver worth 30 billion, we know that 23 billion will be used for VAT safeguard clauses for 2020. Our concern is not for 2020, but for 2021 when it will take 28.7 billion not to raise VAT to 26.5 percent, so it will not remain much for the tax wedge and all the other measures currently in place, unless we continue to massacre the middle class that - I would like to remind you - is the real engine of our country. This creates the value of demerit, not merit. In Italy are confirmed all those immoral measures that give the income of citizenship to those who do nothing and who are therefore not encouraged to find work, as we often observe. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Moreover, checks are being carried out on the same citizenship income. The INPS sent 452,000 messages to ask for additional documentation from those who already receive the cheque. The application, therefore, also leaves some doubt on the real goodness of the provision and the persons to whom it is assigned. Again, on citizenship income we are witnessing more every day a stylicide of news of crime, of scams, of people working in black feeling the income of citizenship, of former terrorists and also of mobsters who, instead of being on the payroll of the mafia, are now also on the state payroll. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You tell me if this is something that does not make citizens' income judge an unfair measure, a moral hazard, one of those measures that have not yet activated, even if it was said that it would be done, in addition to the welfare part, that part that should have brought together those who receive citizenship income with job offers. It seems to me that, to date, the number of people who have found a job can be counted on the fingers of one or two hands. So the citizenship income, if it is not carefully revised, will have done nothing but benefit those 1,000 people who will be hired at the INPS, increasing also the public expenses, and to the 3,000 navigators who, poor people, do not even know what to do. I would now like to make a reference to quota 100, a measure that will of course have to be amended because there are so many people who, to date, would like to retire, who regret the Maroni reform also because the savings of the Fornero reform have been frustrated by the so-called eight safeguards for weary workers and then thrown away with this demagogic measure. The right to a pension has been removed from those who had worked, paid contributions and chose to leave according to the laws of the State, inventing subsidies for those who do not contribute to the state in the best tradition of what could be interpreted as an exchange vote. By asking the Presidency to hand over the remainder of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting, I shall begin with the conclusion. In my opinion it is wrong to confirm measures that have already failed or to insert palliative blandies to our economy that needs - I say as a doctor - an injection of a new medicine called trust, President: confidence in the future, confidence in our abilities, confidence in the merit, confidence in the fairness of laws and aid, but only to those who deserve to be helped, otherwise I think that, thus continuing, our country will certainly not go towards a better future, but certainly worse than the present. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u25	Senator Floris, the Presidency authorizes you to hand over the remainder of the intervention to be annexed to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document for 2019 incorporates the global economic momentum and the decline in international trade due to the duty crisis. Growth has therefore been revised downwards compared to April, reaching more than 0.1 per cent for 2019 and then rising to more than 0.6 per cent in 2020 and more than one per cent for the next two years. Within a global economic framework, therefore, which is not reassuring, NADEF sets out the guidelines for what will be the next budget law. The first point I would like to draw your attention to is the complete decommissioning of VAT clauses, which will therefore not increase, exactly as we have committed ourselves to doing. There will be the renewal of a series of incentives in expiration, including those for industry 4.0, widening the benefits also to investments in the field of training, always considered on our part a fundamental piece in order to favor the growth of our enterprises. And finally the green new deal, the new green pact, a plan of economic reform and investment through which to achieve the objectives signed with the Paris climate agreement of 2016, which provides, among other things, the full implementation of eco-innovation, exploiting the instruments of sustainable finance being planned at European level and progressively removing the benefits harmful to the environment. We also introduce a special fund for environmental patronage, which will promote the development of new technologies, in order to make the ecological transition of the current production system more effective towards a circular economy that promotes the culture of recycling also through the reduction of disposable plastic consumption. We are proud of these measures that transform into norms historical battles of Movimento 5 Stars, which will stimulate growth and, at the same time, give answers to the new generations, to our children, who for many months have manifested to remind us that we have responsibilities towards them. The protesting boys and girls remind us that we must leave them a planet in better conditions than these or, at least, not worse, because there is no reserve planet. Measures to boost growth are not limited to these in the environmental field, but also include other public investment and the reduction of the tax wedge at work. In terms of work, let us not forget that the government's objective is to introduce the minimum wage for those thousands of workers who still have too low wages today. I think, for example, of the security guards, but not just of them. I am also pleased to see the creation of a public supplementary pension fund, which will allow the many young people with discontinuous contributory positions to have a guarantee pension in the future that will allow them a decent exit from the labour market. Also on the subject of pensions I am satisfied that, always in this NADEF, it is specified that there will be the renewal of Option woman, measure that allows a facilitated exit from the world of work to women who often use it in order to be able to support the family in the care of not self-sufficient family members or for the management of grandchildren. The other great theme that will be developed in the budget law is precisely that of family welfare, which includes a review of the discipline of parental leave and smart working, the adoption of measures to support the education of children and the frequency of kindergartens; the introduction of specific protection measures for family caregivers, the provision of specific fiscal measures for families, in particular for those without adequate economic resources (the establishment of a single monthly allowance for the growth, maintenance and education of the offspring) and for those with disabled people. This series of measures will be aimed at promoting the increase in the birth rate in our country and will also help to reduce the existing employment gap for women in the age group between the twenty-five and the forty-nine years, which sees clearly disadvantaged, compared to their peers, those who have children between zero and two years. The resources to implement these indispensable measures to the country will come mainly from the efficiency of public spending and from the contrast to tax evasion. I would remind all of us that the estimate of the flood exceeds EUR 100 billion per year. We all know that it is not completely reset, but it is certainly possible to reduce it substantially. A number of measures launched this year lay the foundations for further action to be developed for the next one, such as the extension and enhancement of electronic payments or the fight against undeclared work, which is more effective through the strengthening of the labour inspectorate. Finally, I would like to highlight the actions planned in the field of health. The progressive overcoming of the so-called superticket is certainly the most awaited one, but it is expected a link that initiates a progressive revision of the current system of sharing in expenditure on the basis of economic and income conditions, aimed at making the system more homogeneous and fair. The aim is to continue the recruitment and stabilisation of staff, mitigate territorial inequalities in terms of access to services, refine the mechanisms for managing the ageing population and achieve better integration of health systems and social assistance. I am thinking, for example, of the many problems involved in the care of non-self-sufficient patients, with marked territorial differences that need to be overcome. In conclusion, in these days I have heard that the speeches made in this NADEF would not be courageous, but I would like to say to all of you that sometimes it takes more courage to do small big things, which do not make a fuss, but that they can change the lives of millions of citizens for the better. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u28	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u29	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity. What I am going to do is focus on the part that I am responsible for, that is, the part that relates to infrastructure. However, I allow myself a little digression in relation to the things I have heard, particularly the fierce face that the Government would do towards those who evade taxes. I say this with absolute mental serenity: asking for fiscal fidelity to Italian citizens is an act of normal civilization in a rule of law as is our country. Rather it would be to avoid the hypocrisy according to which everyone is made to do what they want, then to heal with the condones those who do not pay taxes, as happened recently with the tax decree and as we have seen in recent months, thus demolishing social cohesion and solidarity and making fun of those who instead pay taxes and respect the rules of our country. With regard to the DEF Update Note, I would like to highlight the priority objective that has been set in the planning and planning of the Government, that of unlocking as quickly as possible the many billions of euros that have already been committed and destined to the works, which await their conclusion through the complex systems of the design, the Conference of services and the implementation on the territory, resolving all the nodes that are on the territory and that will still be there. The primary objective is therefore to give a very strong impulse to the already existing plans, both with regard to the railway infrastructural net, through the 15,4 billion euros of the last program contract that has been approved at the end of last year with Italian Railway Network for the infrastructural works of railway character, the majority of which is tied to the TEN-T networks (thus to the high ability), and with regard to the 5-6 billion euros that are currently available for the improvement of the state road network of competence of ANAS. Only these two objectives (rail infrastructure network and road infrastructure network) would allow an investment for a few tens of billions of euros, setting in motion also all the induced, that is those private investments that the country still needs. If we bind, as happens in the objective expressed in the Note of update, these fundamental infrastructures for our Country and for its increase to the other two objectives that the Government has placed, in particular the revision of the National Plan of the airports and the reform of the Italian portualità, we succeed to conjugate the hinges of the mobility and the logistics of our Country (air, earth and water), making sure that there is a union between these three important opportunities (railway, roads, airports and ports) and that Italy can increasingly attract foreign capitals and investments and above all, regarding the logistic part, attract the goods through our Country. Of course, it is not just a question of investments and the Update Note refers specifically to them. We still have to solve some knots. We have seen that, despite the huge resources that have been injected into the infrastructure system, some of them are still for other reasons: I referred first to the complex procedures related to design, implementation on the ground and probably also to the existence of the procurement code, where there is the Government's intention - as it is clearly written - to reduce the interpretative and enforcement uncertainty as much as possible. In the recent revision of the Procurement Code we saw the critical issues, the fears within the public administration and the uncertainties also about who was to do what between the local administrator and the technical manager. Another aspect that we have noted, a very important critical issue, concerns the failures of the winners of tenders for very important contracts and the difficult relationship that is created with the receiver bankruptcy or RFI, ANAS or local authorities. From this point of view, a critical reflection on the procurement code in order to reduce the margins of uncertainty however present is another of the priority objectives. How can we fail to note the Government's willingness to continue investment and accelerate those already planned in the past on digital infrastructure? It is therefore a matter of making the country grow not only through airports, ports, roads and railways, but also from the point of view of digitalization of the whole territory through the full implementation of the so-called broadband plan, so as to favor the areas today not in step with the others. There is a imbalance that we also notice in other infrastructures and that is the government's objective to reduce more and more. I would just like to mention two other aspects, which are difficult to deal with and discuss in a short time. The need to support local and urban mobility is another priority objective. The complex system of local public transport in many Italian cities and in many places is a limit to the development of those territories. To intervene in support of this mobility, combined with the much wider one to which I referred earlier, would succeed in closing the circle and in fostering that strong demand for transfer and mobility that is, however, not only in our country, but in all the countries of the European Union. In this way, an ordinary restructuring of the mobility system can be encouraged in a coherent transfer network. Another mention to make is that linked to the Government's will to invest in urban regeneration and the recovery of existing building assets. I must mention in this regard - and I hope that the Government will commit itself in this direction and in the objective of NADEF there is - the famous outskirts ban, interrupted by the previous Government, which provided for investments in the territory, in our small local realities, for about 1.6 billion euros. Those investments would have generated as many private resources; I know directly in the city where I live about what we have lost. The Update Note may also be a desired, the book of dreams, all things that have been said a moment ago by colleagues who have preceded me, but this is in a coherent design of system and above all supported by resources already destined for those infrastructures, already foreseen in the previous financial laws and already assigned in particular to Italian Railway Network, ANAS and all the mission structures that dealt with the digitization of our country. We just have to work hard to solve those critical issues that have prevented its full implementation in favor of our country's growth. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document we are debating this morning is certainly not satisfactory given the overall economic framework, both national and international. Let's start by saying that the previous government has certainly left the country a serious problem: zero growth, the result of a maneuver to be considered as welfare worker and measures with purely electoral purpose. The country has not invested in infrastructure; citizenship income has proved to be a measure of pure public spending, without generating any benefit, such as - for example - raising the employment rate. Employment centres are still congested and do not work, they do not generate any kind of activity, certainly not being useful to those who do not have a job. There are many cases reported by the chronicles throughout Italy of citizens who are really in need, but excluded from the measure, and of workers in black who, on the contrary, have had the right to benefit. Even among them - as everyone knows by now - there is even a former brigadeist. Unfortunately, it does not seem to me that the current Government intends to change the pace and that is what the measure we are debating today highlights. The agency Fitch Ratings in fact has already revised to the decrease the perspectives of increase for Italy; to the 0 percent for 2019 and to the 0,4 for 2020, that is below than estimated by the Government. Even for the Parliamentary Budget Office, among other things, the Government's forecasts are overly optimistic and show the uncertainty of all the economic policies made clear by the new Government. There doesn't seem to be any trace of that famous fiscal shock that the country would need to restart and that Senator Matteo Renzi also mentioned. There is no fiscal shock, dear colleague Renzi. At least in this Update Note I do not find him; you will tell me if he intervenes. One thing, however, is certain; we have also heard from the Democratic Party in recent days some crazy proposals, such as, for example, those, fortunately, which have been averted, to increase VAT. We will see whether this will happen or not; we will have time to understand it until the budget law is discussed. I really hope that this increase will not occur, because it would mean blocking consumption, hitting the weakest sections of the population as well as the catering and hotel sector, of great importance for the economy of our country. We are also talking about combating evasion and electronic payments: right, okay. Evading taxes is obviously wrong, but sometimes for small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, it becomes almost self-defense. In fact, the Cassation itself has several times invoked the criminal of the state of necessity to justify the non-payment of VAT by entrepreneurs forced to choose between the payment of salaries to their employees or the payment of taxes. Why not fight the big evaders instead? And I am referring to foreign multinationals - for example - that bypass national tax regulations, rather than, as usual, hitting the middle class that almost no longer exists. The left has always had the bad habit of considering entrepreneurs as an enemy. However, I would like to point out that, without companies, there can be no workers and no growth in employment. One of the measures envisaged is the reduction of the tax wedge. The figures, however, show that the effect is irrelevant. Only a few dozen euros more than the famous 80 euros of the Renzi Government will end up in the pockets of the workers. In short, the proposed maneuver appears to be uncourageable and in some cases even harmful. There is also no trace of flat tax or measures that really impact the economy. Among other things, there was even talk of not confirming the flat tax for income up to 65,000 euros. I say another thing, namely that we should even raise the ceiling to EUR 100,000, because we must prevent those who are placed in an income range of between EUR 65,000 and EUR 100,000 from even trying to escape or contain their own earnings, thus holding back the economy. We extend flat tax at least to income up to 100,000 euros; this would certainly help our self-employed and the country's economy and would be an obstacle to the spread of tax evasion. This seems even more serious, given the great challenges facing the world economy, starting with the unfortunate duties of Donald Trump, which hit our agro-food sector hard and which, according to the International Monetary Fund, generate a 0.8% loss for global GDP. Indeed, the International Monetary Fund is even talking about a synchronized slowdown in the global economy, which could lead to the default risk of 19 billion dollars in corporate debt, which is 40% of the debt of the eight major economies. What about the South? An extraordinary infrastructure plan should be put in place to generate growth and new jobs and reconnect the most depressed areas of the country to European standards. On the contrary, the indiscretions speak of an infrastructural plan that has again forgotten the Mezzogiorno. Those living in the South know perfectly well that the only possibility of relaunching their economy is infrastructure, which is still lacking. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Talking about work without thinking about a plan of infrastructure for the South, dear colleagues and dear colleagues, is not imaginable or even conceivable. It seems clear that the recipes proposed by this Government are insufficient, pale and inadequate to support a country that is still in crisis, while others are instead relaunching and growing. They are, in fact, the mirror of a quarrelsome majority that forgets the economy in favour of demagogic measures. Just yesterday the Movimento 5 Stars celebrated the reduction in the number of MPs. This is a measure that is detrimental to representative democracy, which will generate a ridiculous saving of 0.007 percent. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] DI NICOLA (M5S). You voted for it, too! PAGE (FI-BP). You understand we're making fun of Italians here. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] It's true that someone in the past said that Italians love to be fooled, but we have to end this. Let us try to be a Parliament of common sense - I am referring at least to those few - and let us begin to tell the Italians the truth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u32	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet my colleagues and my colleagues and representatives of the Government, whom I see present. Senator Renzi is also present in the Chamber, so I am more serene. The colleagues who preceded me have already entered, more than exhaustively, into the folds of the maneuver under consideration, which you consider obviously expansive, socially equitable, rigorous and bearer of that sentiment of ethics that the Count Government did not have. I therefore have a spontaneous question, namely whether the Conte- bis Government carries with it this ethics and this progress. I would say no, also because the sudden changes in the shirt that we have witnessed and the political turnarounds that have consumed in recent months today are fully reflected and are speculative in this maneuver. In this regard, in the few minutes I have available, I will touch only one point that is very dear to me, even if it is dear not only to me, but also to thousands of small, medium and large entrepreneurs, as well as to the territorial institutions (Comuni, Provinces, Regions) and to the many associations that daily fight a law that has led to almost total paralysis: I am talking about legislative decree 18 April 2016, n. 50, the so-called code of public contracts. Do you want to relaunch both private and public investment by introducing simplification and flexibility tools? Then have the etychicity and correctness to carry on the reform of this code, which has already begun with the "unblocking yards", even if only for a very small part, covering for three quarters the question of the areas hit by the earthquake of 2016. There's delegation to the government. Do not be hesitant to face legislative decree 18 April 2016, n. 50. Use a safe eye, don't hide behind the fear of corruption. It is not the law that makes man corrupt, because corrupt man is such by his nature or becomes it by distortion of life. So face what has already been started not with fear, standing still, because - it pains me to say - to make the country grow you have to make a brave maneuver and tell the Italians that you will be brave in taking hold of a whole series of critical issues. You don't have to tell the Italians to be brave, as you are doing and this is not good. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Face things without looking back. Have you decided to change? Welcome. We will make a firm and constructive opposition, without going to always look back, to the XVII or XVI legislature. We are in the 18th legislature, in which we have done many things. We will look at you, without standing on you, but remembering that it is you who are sitting now at the benches of the government, even if in a way to say why, with all due respect, there is no one today. And just as you are sitting on the benches of the government, which today should be full of representatives of the Executive to listen to all the speeches, we will remind you that you will now have to pull the country out of the sandboxes that we did not create. We will be careful and remind you of your role every time, which must be courageous and not david. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u34	Thank you, Senator Faggi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u35	I would point out to you, however, that the State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance sits at the government's desks. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you for your kind permission! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u36	Mr President, there is not even an Italian region with a positive level of competitiveness, i.e. above the European average. The loss of momentum concerns not only the South, but also the rest of the country, including Lombardy, which until recently was indicated among the engines of Europe, like Bavaria or Île-de-France. The disarming picture I have just mentioned is not mine, but it comes out of the 2019 edition of the Regional Competitiveness Index just published by the European Commission. If, on the one hand, this is the situation, on the other hand we have an almost Kafkian debate about the reality just described by the current Government and the majority. In fact, we have seen a debate on capital and cash, with a focus on the person not, as the Constitution wants, on the rights and dignity of the same, but as if the State were an enemy and not a friend and as if the tax were almost an oppressor of the individual, although the prediction of the Constitution is different. Politics sometimes offers great surprises. Today I am here to intervene on a measure, of which a person I esteem is rapporteur, Senator Errani, who thinks like me for many things: while belonging to two different political worlds, in fact, the attention to social and to the person is identical. Today, however, we are debating from a different position, even if he has chosen, in his role as rapporteur, a technical report that does not affect his party's judgment on the Government. Such a judgment should be negative, because in the measure under consideration there are really things that cannot be justified. I give three examples, the first of which concerns justice. If you go to read the measure under consideration, on this subject there is written all the human scibile, but everything is generic, without a line of clarification or indication. Yet, the measure under consideration should indicate the perspective of our country. But what perspective can it indicate if there is no euro? A number of reforms are mentioned, indicating the invariance of expenditure. If I remember correctly, however, from 1 January 2020 the suspension of the prescription will take place forever. Was it not necessary to ensure a trial, which should have been carried out in four years, and should not those limits, which would have ensured a rapid process, be secured? There is nothing, except a sentence, that talks about establishing the tools for an acceleration of all processes. Mr President, you have as much experience as I do in the world of justice. If on 9 October we do not have the opportunity to assess what will happen, on 1 January a reform will enter into force which is a legal obnoxious one and is against the individual. It is abnormal not to know what will be done. Another theme I want to highlight is that of the family. Let's ask ourselves how much money is being spent on the family. If you take into account what is planned for the family today, it seems to be a not indifferent and fair figure. However, if we go to read the whole text well and consider what is added and what is taken away from families compared to last year, in the end the balance between the two items indicates an appropriation of EUR 7.5 or 8 billion less than what was spent on families last year. It's quite depressing to think of such a hypothesis. I shall conclude by talking about the tax wedge, on which the President-in-Office of the Council said he had found EUR 23 billion, in order to exclude the increase in VAT. In fact, he didn't find anything, because he did 14 billion euros in debt and didn't find 23 billion euros. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But how do you put 2.5 billion in the tax wedge? This is, neither more nor less, another of the many actions, beginning with the income citizenship and others, which serves only to fill the need of the people, but does not serve to guarantee a growth of the country, to guarantee that new jobs are created and there is a serious impact on employment. This despite the recent meetings of the Confindustria and Assolombarda have clearly indicated which intervention could guarantee a possibility of growth. I hope, Mr President, that the Democratic Party has not let itself be dazzled by the idea of happy degrowth. If we do not grow up, our young people, future generations, will have no work as they already have almost no work at all today. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u37	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto complesso di Montelibretti, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u38	Mr President, the Update Note to the 2019 Economy and Finance Document, which we are discussing today, sets out clearly the objectives that the new Government has set itself: for next year in a specific way and in the three-year period up to 2020 for now in a more general way. On the one hand, we want to preserve the sustainability of public finance; on the other hand, although with very limited margins, because of the huge resources to be found to sterilize the increase in VAT, we want to create fiscal spaces to revive economic growth. On this second point, Italy Viva considers very positive that we want to start from a large plan of public investment and support for private investments, in the sign of environmental and social sustainability and the development of skills. Environmental issues and sustainable development must be, and increasingly become, the polar star that directs the choices of the Executive and the majority that support the new Government. Green new deal, green bonds, two 50 billion investment funds over a fifteen-year horizon for sustainable development, continuation of tax deductions for building and energy efficiency: these are some of the most qualifying points of NADEF, which qualify as courageous the choice of this majority to give a distinctive and consistent sign with the expectations and needs of society to the choices on development; a green new deal Italian and European that also connects to those that are the perspectives outlined by the new Commission that will be led by Ursula von der Leyen; a green new deal Italian and European, oriented to the fight against climate change, energy conversion, circular economy, environmental protection and social and territorial cohesion. This will be the cornerstone of the development strategy of the majority and the government. It will be part of the approach of promoting fair and sustainable well-being, whose programming was introduced in Italy in advance on the other European countries, and which the Government - as the Minister of Economy stated during the hearings in the Budget Committee - intends to strengthen in all its dimensions. Building on the strength of the Italian production system, the next budget maneuver outlined by NADEF will contain interventions able to stimulate investments, both for the renewal of the productions and of the plants in use, in order to contain the emissions and reduce the energy consumption; both for the use of the new technologies, activating a virtuous circle between innovation and the environment. It is important to be able to redirect the production system towards a circular economy that spreads the culture of recycling and finally disbands the culture of rejection. Incentives and facilities will therefore be provided for the objective of protecting the environment and promoting growth and the circular economy, in such a way as to cover the implementation and development of a new model of sustainable and inclusive growth. The DEF Update Note attaches great importance to the security of the territory; to the contrast to the hydrogeological failure; to the acceleration of reconstruction in the earthquake areas; to the reduction of single-use plastics; to the respect of biodiversity; to the protection of the sea; to the problem of building abuse and to the needs of new social housing. If we consider that a significant part of our country's investment is carried out by local and territorial authorities (about two thirds of the value of total investments are made by Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities), in order to achieve the objectives of the green new deal it will be indispensable that the Government puts the Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities in the condition of power and perhaps have to make investments consistent with the objective of the Executive. To achieve this result, we need a leverage on the available resources: both a regulatory leverage and a leverage linked to specific funds to be made available to territorial authorities. There is a need for incentive mechanisms and also for penalties in relation to the framework in which we want to operate. And human resources are needed, if possible to be encouraged economically; human resources have also been reduced by the effect of 100 - alas - which have not been replaced, due to the impossibility to scroll through the rankings of public competitions. Human resources are therefore needed for the design and implementation of interventions such as the energy efficiency of public buildings; the conversion of lighting systems to LED systems; the strengthening of local public transport; the conversion of the car fleet to more efficient and less polluting vehicles; the construction of cycle paths, according to an organic and planned development framework; more efficient waste collection systems and, of course, much more. Minister Gualtieri, in answering in the Budget Committee questions such as those I am raising, has already argued in this regard that the Municipalities will be fundamental actors of the green new deal and that the Government wants to build a partnership with the Municipalities knowing that a significant part of the investments, and therefore of the potential results, transits from local choices. He then spoke of the importance of making the best use of the important funds that the European Union makes available and that - ahinoi - are not yet fully exploited and used, in part constituting a further lever for the achievement of the objectives that the Government and the majority give themselves. In the conviction that that of the green new deal, of the leverage on the issues of the environment, but also of the involvement of local and territorial authorities, is the best way to follow, Italy Viva, in compliance with the Paris Agreement, will not miss its contribution of ideas and proposals, so that the great project that the Update Note of the DEF introduces can find full fulfillment, with the involvement of all institutional actors that can make a useful contribution to this challenge. In the coming days and weeks, Italy Viva will send to the Government and the majority that supports it its active and concrete contributions. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u39	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to make a few comments on some of the contents of the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, the scaffolding - as has been said - on which the next Budget Act 2020 will be built and - perhaps - the maneuvers of the next years of this Government's term of office. First of all, I note that the linker with our new friends in Europe remains the fight against Matteo Salvini. That's right. I find it unfair to trust those who up until now and for decades have not considered our country equal and, suddenly, consider it a friend. I keep being very suspicious. (at 12:01 a.m.) (continued). But let's come to one of the things I care about most. The new mantra is sustainability. I wonder and ask the House: who could be against the rapid implementation of the green new deal? However, I remind the super environmentalists that there is a transition phase that must be managed with a lot of responsibility, intelligence and sense of reality. We must deal with a gigantic problem, that of waste; an emergency that today compromises the quality of life of the Romans and the citizens of many other cities. The shame of the state of filth and abandonment of Rome, the most beautiful city in the world, humiliates the entire country before the world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of course, we must begin to eliminate the most impacting packaging materials; to promote more respectful production cycles; to obtain energy from renewable sources. In the meantime, however, there is a huge dirty deal on waste, often managed by organised crime. Since some regions in the past have chosen not to build the thermo-toolizers - the absolute evil for the super-environmentalists - not only do we need to overpay to bring the waste elsewhere, until the paradox of buying the energy derived from the same waste, but also often feeds an illicit traffic of waste for which, for example - it is news of yesterday, in the province of Como - the waste is stored in rented sheds and one day, suddenly, they catch fire: dioxin almost insured. The League has long proposed the end of waste, which finally, after fourteen months, should find solution in the decree-law on corporate crises. Regarding yesterday's operation, I thank as always and congratulate all the Forces of the Order who participated in the maxi raid in Campania, Calabria and Lombardy, which led to 11 arrests. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But we are still talking about the sludge resulting from the processing of hydrocarbons. In the recent past the League has tried in vain to propose to solve in any way the long-standing problem with the drying of the sludge and the subsequent heat-to-energy in suitable plants: no, no and then no. The muds scattered in the fields we eat them, because they continue to spread in agriculture. We will see if the fear of losing the role - some say the armchair - will now convince the Movimento 5 Stars to correct this twist, just as it has eliminated from its language - to speak of great works - the expression "cost-benefit analysis." Finally, I call for urgent attention to be paid to a problem that affects all families who have children at compulsory school, that of school transport; it is a problem addressed by Article 5 of Legislative Decree No. 63 of 2017 on the implementation of the right to study. I remember another urgent issue: to complete the provision on video surveillance, which has already passed to the House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Every day the chronicles report violence suffered by young children in kindergartens, the elderly and the disabled: it is not tolerable. These are the real urgencies. We must help the weakest and teach that those who are criminals and are not civilized in this country are finally punished. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u42	What would you like to intervene on, Senator? AIROLA (M5S). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). I would like to say that we have not forgotten the cost-benefit analysis. You forgot. PRESIDENT. - The debate is This is not an intervention on the order of business. He's enlisted to speak Senator Di Nicola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u43	Mr President, the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, as is well known, represents the three-year programming instrument with which the boundaries of finance and the potential of the public budget are traced, every time trying to put in place measures that serve, on the one hand, to curb the negative effects of public debt and deficit and, on the other hand, to try to respond to the problems of our economy and to the economic emergency and often of poverty of our citizens. From this point of view, I believe that this year's maneuver is trying to put in place measures which somehow resolve the problems we have inherited from the past and which, as everyone knows, have meant that the primary need, the first task of this new government, was the need to spend that important amount, of 23 billion, in order to prevent the increase in VAT. NADEF, however, has other important measures, which I believe the citizens will appreciate and show the Government's efforts: from web tax to tax reduction at work. I am referring to the famous tax wedge, which weighs heavily on our economy and which, above all, prevents the final recipients (to those who work) from being able to earn the right without being taken away by the State from a huge share of income in the form of taxation. I would like to mention another important point of the maneuver which I think is particularly relevant: I am referring to the two investment funds, which total 50 billion, which over fifteen years tend to favour urban regeneration and energy conversion to renewable energy. It is a theme that as Movimento 5 Stars we do not invent at this moment, but that is part of the DNA and history of this movement. We were therefore particularly pleased to see this issue finally appreciated in Europe, where the Commission has committed itself to putting in place a powerful investment plan of 100 billion, of which I hope Italy will also be able to take full advantage of the opportunities. Having said that, there is also a problem with regard to the many emergencies that we have to face in this country and also in order to try, increasingly, starting from this maneuver and we hope even more so in that of next year, to realize as far as possible an expansive financial maneuver, that finally allows the Italian economy to get out of the droughts of the crisis that unfortunately continues to condition it. Here we enter into the delicate issue of finding resources, because it takes a lot of money to try to expand our economy, promote production processes and also the consumption cycle. We need to put in the economic circuit a quantity of resources that are not there at the moment and that also, as we already see in this maneuver, the Government tries to identify. And where are these resources that we must absolutely try to free? They are in the tens and tens of billion hidden in the meanders of the state budget, they are already, in some cases, in investments also for great works, important works that the Italians wait and that are not carried out for many reasons, starting with the ministerial bureaucracy not to mention everything else that then, cascade, also comes to the difficulty of the regions and local authorities to draw up their needs to the full. Well, there are a lot of resources that I am particularly pleased that this Government begins, with important measures, to free it in order finally to try to get to the opening of the yards. Then there is the theme of the spending review that is absolutely necessary to continue, that can be quantified potentially in about 30 billion and that continues to hide the traditional waste of the public apparatus that we know, as well as there is another important item, that is the 40 billion of tax expenditures, billions that can be recovered and that are part of those famous 513 voices of tax relief, forms of advantage often to those who do not need and do not need it, and that, according to ministerial estimates, they amount to 61 billion. I believe that important resources can be recovered on these fronts. Finally, there is the most important voice, that is, that of tax evasion, which is an endless history of injustices that the country carries with it from the Unity of Italy, from 1860-61, with a population of taxpayers traditionally not inclined to fulfill its tax duty. The history of Italy, unfortunately, is tainted by this which I continue to call scandal but which is the tendency of the citizens to escape from that pact of citizenship that, indeed from Unity, unfortunately, we continue to mark and painfully signal for the mass of resources that it continues to subtract from the State. According to the latest studies, it is EUR 109 billion that this Parliament has failed to recover, with adequate instruments, in the fight against tax evasion over the years. There is no doubt, and I believe that in this respect, honestly, we should all agree, that this Parliament, through its own parties, has never had the will, not the courage but the will, to go and strike the mass of the evaders because, in our country, the evaders have always, unfortunately, been considered first and foremost a reserve of votes. The measures that this Government puts in place in NADEF to try to recover resources are already an attempt that I personally am satisfied with, because a figure that seems to be small but is also important, that is, about 7 billion euros that are particularly valuable at the moment. But if we consider, alongside 109 billion euros of evasion, the other scary figure that has exceeded 1000 billion of missed collections, we come to the conclusion that it is time to change the tax evasion register to invite the government to more radical measures. There is so much talk of prison to the evaders, as if it were first of all a strong measure because it recalls the so-called liberticide measures, yet prison is also necessary for the evaders. Attention, however: it is shown that tax evaders in Italy almost never end up in prison. You think that out of 207,000 final sentences we have currently imprisoned some 200 unfaithful taxpayers. It is then time to consider tax evaders for what they are: social thieves. When I say this, I do not want to make it worse, because they are often victims of the crisis, but it is time, in front of this ineffective measure of prison, to put in place some administrative measures, which I list in three points. I call for the suspension or withdrawal of commercial licences, depending on the seriousness of the crime, if tax evaders are convicted. With regard to professionals, who are the majority of the evaders, suspension or cancellation from professional books. As far as public concessions are concerned, I ask - and I hope that the Government will note and evaluate - for the suspension and withdrawal of public concessions, whether they be highways or television. I wish the government good work because there is so much to do and it is time to put a great will and a great determination in it for tax evasion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion we give of this Note to update the Economic and Financial Document is very negative, not for preconceived reasoning, but because we feel that we want to combat pneumonia with aspirin and that is certainly not what can revive and give a breath of oxygen to our economy. We do not see any concrete direction that can achieve the results that we hope to achieve and, indeed, we notice that we still vex the middle class, continuing on that path of happy degrowth that had already been started in the government before this. The maneuver has a total value of €29.9 billion and still 14.4 billion are in deficit. In this regard, I would like to open a parenthesis by addressing the representatives of the left who have always shouted at the scandal when manoeuvres have been made in deficit: today we realize that the deficit is no longer a taboo and manoeuvres in deficit can be done, when they are done by the representatives of the left. As much as EUR 7.1 billion is to be recovered from the fight against evasion, EUR 2 billion from the extension of replacement taxes on property and land revaluations, EUR 1.8 billion from expenditure savings, EUR 1.8 billion from cuts to subsidies harmful to the environment, and EUR 2.8 billion from dividends and privatisations. Of this maneuver, as many as €23.1 billion will be used to sterilize the VAT safeguard clauses for 2020 and 2.7 billion will be used to cut the tax wedge (which we will talk about later), 1.1 billion for the renewal of industry 4.0, 0.2 billion for kindergartens and 2.8 billion for the green new deal. GDP will rise by 0.6% rather than by 0.8% expected. The deficit-GDP ratio will be 2.2%, instead of 2.1%. The debt-to-GDP ratio of 135.2%, instead of 131.7%. These are the numbers of the maneuver that, in the Government's intentions, will be composed of the budget law and 22 related bills. I repeat that, under these conditions, ours can only be a negative judgment, concerned about the lack of a revival of the economy that is still hard to see and imagine. This Conte- bis maneuver lacks an economic policy direction, because there is no provision for economic and financial planning supported by an act from which one can see what the decisions of the Government are to be included in the budget law. It is true that the safeguard clauses do not take place. But apart from the fact that this will has been expressed by all the parliamentary groups with specific motions, we realize that the increase in VAT is only postponed: it is frozen in 2020, but we believe that, in the absence of a revival of the economy, a resumption of consumption and a resumption of industrial production, we will be again next year discussing how to avoid the increase in VAT. The tax burden, on the other hand, increases by at least €8.8 billion, 7 of which should result from the fight against tax evasion. Now, here I would like to open a parenthesis: the objective, set in this Update Note by the Government, is ambitious to identify in 7 billion euros the proceeds of the fight against evasion. I believe that this result will be unattainable: never has any government, not even the most ambitious and not even the most self-esteemed, included this element in the economic evaluation. It is even more serious today to include this sum, taking into account the fact that all forms of scrapping and all forms of arrangement have already been used with respect to the accounting records and instruments have already been put in place to combat evasion, such as the introduction of the electronic invoice. We therefore believe that this forecast is only useful in not making the budget false and we are convinced that the Government will have to implement corrective action when it realizes that this objective will not be attainable. It must be pointed out that, in order to increase consumption - in the Note to the DEF an increase of 0.8% of domestic consumption is expected - the measure of cutting the tax wedge is absolutely insufficient for 2.7 billion euros, moreover from the middle of 2020; we go from 80 euros of the Renzi Government to 40 euros of the Conte-a Government. I believe that consumption is stimulated by reducing taxes, because if taxes are reduced, consumption is increased, consumption is increased and production is increased and employment is also increased. Therefore, we will vote against and hope that the Government will take advantage of the suggestions that the oppositions have included in the resolution that we have tabled and that we will discuss. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u47	Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to say and contribute to this point of parliamentary work and to support the work of the Government. For reasons of awareness, I tried to find out how and when the DEF originated, how and when the DEF Update Note originated. And I found how, in the 1970s, the great scholars of the financial and public decision on behalf of the State made it understood that it was the only way to give direction to the government's public planning activity by Parliament was precisely the space for discussion of the DEF and the Update Note of the DEF, which is called NADEF. It is a space that we must use without hypocrisy and without giving rise to that geometry of military belongings, so the current majority proposes the Update Note and the opposition must necessarily say no in militant terms. So much so that in the Commission I tried to stimulate a abstaining vote tending to be positive, because this is the first DEF update note of this majority, considering the previous one angelically suspended, because it could not collect results (the neutrally put it this way). What are the basic elements of this Note? The financial supply. How do you make sure? The financial provision is secured through tax collection and the fight against evasion for 70-75 percent; for the remainder, through the valued use of state property and corporate placements that the State has. In short, efforts are being made to ensure that the financial provisions needed to cover decisions, rules and investments are consistent. There is also a space in this Note that we derive from the redevelopment of public spending, because we have a public expenditure that cubes 150 billion euros to buy goods and services and we can certainly make economy. What kind of guilt can this Note have in the judgment of the opposition? None, because then we will have to see, in correspondence with the time of the connected and the budget of the state, what is the ability to stand on the reality. But above all we have the curriculum of credibility, because this majority within itself has political forces that on the tax collection has curriculum to appreciate. It was we of this majority, an important infrastructure, who wanted, for example, the digitization of data in the tax collection; e-invoicing we wanted, claimed, made law and made applicable. This is what makes us resume and that makes us say: you have to believe us, you have to pay attention when we say that we are able to increase tax collection and to strengthen the fight against evasion and avoidance. We know what the gap is, but we also know that the instruments put in place will be able to do so if we continue to adapt the administrative machinery and make it capable of avoiding certain positions of interest, of particular belonging that have called into question to the end e-invoicing. And what is done about tax collection, the rediscovery of state property use, the redevelopment of public expenditure? We are going to support fundamental investments that have been expected for at least ten years, and we are talking about some big games as well. I would like to mention one which is of great interest to me: the extension of rail speed quality networks. He hasn't had a fight for ten years. The dossier in Europe on railway speed is firm, tired of distraction. And in the part of the investments is written in this Note, clearly with the quality of the address: we are not yet at the financing rules, we are at the rules setting guidelines. Just as there is a big match regarding the facilitation of the yards: 50 billion euros are in the South, corresponding to the masterplan for the South. It takes four years to see the construction sites, to see the workers' suits dirty with cement. Also there it is written that it will simplify, retouching the norm on public contract. Is it a mistake what you have done before when you have tightened your shirts? No, because there was also a problem of corruption to be faced, but the regulatory life adapts, improves, reform, determines a modularity with respect to the needs that emerge. I also think it is very important that everything on the subject of redevelopment of the city's life is discussed. Cities have been the qualifying element of Europe and in the outskirts of the cities the end of Europe is being born because the conflict is rising. Urban regeneration is a major part of the investment policy of this Note. However, we must ensure that the plans, projects and programmes follow the yards, with the simplicity of seeing them operate and do the SALs (states of progress work). Inside this document there is care, there is coverage, there is a declined administrative vision. You need to help, with an effort of loyalty, the work that you have set up. I would also like to congratulate you on the part devoted to the state property. We have something like EUR 105 billion of state property to put on the road. We need to work together, accompanying the work of the current Director-General, because more resources can come from there, more than 5 billion of the state budget of 2019. But this can happen if we work and compose ourselves, overcoming the attitude of militant partiality. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u48	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u49	Mr President, kind senators and senators, I am very pleased that the Government is putting a chapter on technological innovation, which is directly linked, in two ways, with three areas: education, infrastructure and the provision of digital services by the public administration, among the policy lines for the new year. On the subject of education, in the document we are discussing, it is recalled that the European Union recommends that we improve school outcomes, in particular by strengthening digital skills. In the field of infrastructure and investment, the wish is to invest in research and innovation and in the quality of infrastructure. With regard to public administration reform, Europe invites us to invest in the skills of civil servants, accelerating digitisation and increasing the efficiency and quality of local public services. An entire chapter of the Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document is also devoted to public administration reform. It is stated that the project of innovation and digitisation of public administration is of fundamental importance for the development and economic and cultural growth of the country. To this end, the integration of digital technologies into decision-making processes will be promoted through increasing interoperability of technological solutions, better use of public data and the adoption of common standards in terms of procedures and services provided to citizens and businesses. When we recall the need to accelerate the digitalization of the country with the objective of bringing Italy back in the index of digitization of the economy and society (DESI) - I remember that we are currently in the twenty-fourth place - we refer directly to the need to form, through our school and university system, that human capital in mathematics, computer science, statistics, scientific, technical and engineering, required by companies and the market, in the national and European context. Skills that are not on the labour market to date or are very rare. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Government, it is clear that the objective of success in the reform of public administration is also closely linked to how we will be able to change our school system to form those skills that are indispensable for the economic growth of the country, skills necessary also for cultural and democratic growth. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because, as is pointed out in the policy lines, decision-making processes at all levels in public administration and industry, but also in everyday family choices, will necessarily go for digital technologies and for the use of data. We absolutely need citizens trained in digital culture. So culture to manage data, but also infrastructure. So the third element, together with the digitisation of public administration and the reform of the school system, is infrastructure. For the growth of the country it is necessary the realization of infrastructures of transport, of conservation and elaboration of the data. When we talk about artificial intelligence, we mean a complex of interconnected systems of storage, of calculation, of elaboration, of which is part also the network in ultra broadband, that fortunately is being realized and is on the agenda of the Government already for several years. On artificial intelligence at national level we have drawn up a national strategy paper which has also been the subject of public consultation and this is a very good first step. However, we must be consistent with similar European initiatives. On this side of artificial intelligence, Europe is moving forward with more conviction, because catching up with Europe's backwardness vis-à-vis the United States and China is really something that could be called titanic. A few days ago, the German Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy, Peter Altmaier, said that data will become the most important raw material of the future and that Germany and Europe need an infrastructure to guarantee our sovereignty over them. Why this statement by Altmaier? The data now constitute a market of 32.4 billion dollars a year, with a double-digit growth rate. 49 percent of this global market is now in the hands of a single company called Amazon. Together with Microsoft, Alibaba, Google and IBM, we are talking about five players who come to monopolize 72% of this market: of the companies mentioned, four are American and one Chinese, after these five there are two more: one American and one Chinese. Europe, for now, is out of the market. The United States and China have long started this data-based and artificial intelligence-based economic policy, creating those material infrastructure that we call cloud. The cloud is not an intangible infrastructure: it is made up of physical, robust and protected locations; servers that constitute data storage capacity and computing capacity; interconnection networks. It is also made of skills that can realize those applications and analyses that, from raw data that is stored, extract knowledge and new services for citizens and economic development. When Ministries, hospitals, public agencies and police, but also strategic companies use and provide web services, the acquired data goes to be recorded on cloud systems of these big players such as Amazon and others (perhaps even e-invoicing data goes to Amazon). Germany has therefore realised that this is a very risky situation for Europe, because it no longer has the sovereignty over its data, which is why it is launching the new European cloud project Gaia-X. I therefore appeal to the Government to immediately join the Gaia-X project, to be carried out together with Germany and France. We have examples of important successful participation by Italy in European projects that are at the forefront. Think, for example, of the European Space Agency (ESA), which has one of its most important locations near here, in Frascati, or the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), where our excellences, scientists, physicists, engineers and IT experts have recently contributed to the discovery of the Higgs boson and antimatter research. It is necessary for Italy to start as soon as possible with the design of a national cloud system to be connected to the Gaia-X system proposed by Germany, perhaps to become an artificial intelligence CERN, to begin to retain our data and apply on them that artificial intelligence that will allow us to offer value-added services that promise a real growth of national GDP. Reading the NADEF, I perceived that the Government is strongly oriented and attentive to these issues of innovation and the establishment of the Ministry for Technology Innovation and Digitalization is a demonstration of this. Therefore, I trust that my appeal will be carefully considered and placed on the government agenda. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u50	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u51	Mr President, I should like to make it clear that the DEF Update Note does not convince us at all: it is a document with few ideas and well confused, as confused were the statements of the government's representatives, since its inception, on economic and fiscal policies. We have heard a series of rather bizarre ideas, put forward by authoritative Ministers of the Giallorossi Government: we have heard about taxing snacks, sodas, cash withdrawals or even fuel. These were the first statements on economic and fiscal policies to be implemented in this new course of the legislature by the new Executive. Now we are facing, for the first time, a formal act, the DEF Update Note, and we realize that reality is even more worrying. First of all, this Update Note is built on false assumptions. You have declared to the world that this is an expansive maneuver: it is a falsehood. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a maneuver that will lead us from a stagnant economic situation to the full recession and it is the numbers that say it: we are talking about a 29 billion euro maneuver, of which 23 are destined to sterilize the safeguard clauses and the increases in VAT. The real maneuver is therefore reduced to only EUR 6 billion, which is nothing, especially if we then remove 2.7 billion from these 6 billion for the tax wedge. 3.3 billion remains, which you would like to devote to an endless series of good intentions: the refinancing of the unchanged policies of the previous Government, the relaunch of public investments, the renewal of incentives on Industry 4.0, investments in education and health, the hiring of doctors, nurses, the Forces of Order and Fire Department, the overcoming of the superticket and the free kindergartens. It is ridiculous to make Italians believe that, with EUR 3.3 billion in 2020, you will be able to achieve these objectives. It is an empty, resourceless list, as is your custom. Your immigration policies are equally devoid of content, with fake agreements, declarations of intent, while the numbers speak clearly in that case too: arrivals have tripled and there is no real solution to the problem. That's your attitude. You are lucky to have the support of Europe, of that European Commission which denied the previous government an investment with a deficit-GDP ratio of 2.4% and which will grant it to you for 2.2, in a paradoxical situation made up of other falsehoods, which concern not only investment, but also cover, false, ridiculous, impossible and unsustainable. I am referring to the more than EUR 7 billion that should result from the fight against tax evasion and the 3.6 billion resulting from privatisation. Where is the cover of this maneuver? He's not here. However, the European Commission welcomes the fact that the European Commission's assessments, which consist not of technicians but politicians, will only be favourable because this government represents it politically. There are also great concerns on our part with regard to the intentions expressed in black and white in the update note of the DEF that we are examining: I am talking first of all about the reduction of tax concessions. There is this voice, which is not clarified, but there will be, just as there will be new environmental taxes, new taxes, playing on the public's sensitivity to the issue of the environment to cash out. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There will be an unclear remodulation of VAT and from my side remodulation means, as has always been, a scam for citizens, for businesses and for companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The words "revisiting" and "remodulation" and "simplification" always have the same meaning when used by the Democratic Party: a rip-off for taxpayers, families and Italian companies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then there are the alleged investments of EUR 50 billion in public works. Are they planned for 2020 or for the three-year period 2020-2022? No, they are expected in fifteen years and that means nothing. That means everything and nothing! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We want to know how many you will invest in 2020, because then the maneuvers are renewed and can be turned upside down. There is concern for local authorities and there is talk of spending review. We have invested so much in local authorities and not in favor of mayors, but because we wanted to provide services to citizens and also an immediate incentive to resume public works. In this document, the effort in the spending review, which will cover EUR 1.8 billion and involve public administrations at all levels, will be mentioned. You told us in the Commission that you are committed not to involving municipalities and local authorities, but we do not trust them. We'll see the financial maneuver data, because what you write is different from what you say. You then canceled our government's tax policies. We would have liked to have implemented the flat tax gradually, in line with the resources available, as we have done for VAT consignments with an income of up to 65,000 euros and this threshold could have been raised to 100,000 euros. The fantastic idea that you can't do it because of us, because you haven't asked permission, forgive us, but it's ridiculous. If you want, you ask and do: as we have shown several times, you can negotiate strong positions with the European Commission, but you need the will to do so. You do not have the will to reduce the tax burden, and this is also evident from the document before us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The accusations that public finances are not in order are also ridiculous. With the July maneuver, we have put the accounts in order and we have respected the commitment of 2.2%: it is madness, but we have respected it, with a maneuver that has put the accounts in order and in order. The final concern is what I expressed at the beginning of my speech: what is expected is a maneuver that will lead us not to the revival of the economy, but to the recession and we will certainly see it from October onwards. Colleagues, you can deceive the citizens with these full-bodied documents, but do not deceive us and you will not deceive them, of course, when they try on their skin the effect of your salvific maneuvers, which - as always happens with the maneuvers carried out by the PD - always put their hands in the pockets of the citizens. We regret that this government's accomplice is a movement we have respect for, that was a revolutionary movement but that today has become the crutch of the Democratic Party [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , as in the past it was Mastella or the New Right Center. It is sad to see the evolution of this movement, which has even been decisive in the election of Ursula von der Leyen. The European system has therefore been confirmed, also through the vote of this movement, that it was once revolutionary and that it was also decisive in the indication of Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, the last President of the Council of the PD, as European Commissioner. The feeling, therefore, is that this is a Government of the PD, with a crutch that will have little impact on future policies. In conclusion, colleagues in the majority, you have the numbers to approve this document, both in this House and in the House of Deputies, because the terror of the elections is certainly great, especially after the adoption of the constitutional reform yesterday, but you do not have the consent in the country. We ruled for fourteen months, but we grew the consensus of our movement and the Government as a whole, demonstrating that the policies we implemented had the favor of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have the numbers in the palace, but you do not have them in the real country and we will prove it even more in the next electoral appointments, in which you will be sent a clear signal of eviction, because the governments that are born without the consent of the citizens of course can last, but not forever. There will be a vote, which will do justice to a government that does not really represent our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u52	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u53	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, if I were to summarize with an effective title the first impression that I received by reading the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, I would say: There is nothing left but to entrust ourselves to Our Lady of Hope. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Unfortunately, others cannot be said of a document whose guiding thread is the hypothesis, uncertainty and probability, not supported by any serious and objective data. To clarify I am leaving immediately with some important examples contained in the Update Note. The government believes it can reduce the deficit-GDP ratio by increasing inflation. Thus, more inflation means even more GDP. Thus, in this case, a reduction in the deficit-to-GDP ratio is also easier. Inflation is expected to rise to 1.3% in 2020 and 1.7% in 2021 and 2021-2022. I don't know if you remember what the previous government had done about GDP; it had given numbers: 1.5% of GDP growth. In this case, this government, instead of GDP, gives the numbers on inflation. We do not recognize and do not remember inflation with such a high rate in our country for at least ten years. We rely, therefore, on the hope of inflation [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The second example I want to bring to your attention is the privatisation chapter. In the previous DEF, that is, in what we are going to update today, the previous Government had inserted an exorbitant figure: 18 billion euros of revenue from the sale of real estate and privatisations. Also in this new Document of economy and finance there is a small part dedicated to the revenues from privatizations; but remember what we collected last year of the 18 billion euros of revenue previewed from privatizations? Zero. So in this case too, we rely on the hope of revenue on privatisations. The government or, better, the maneuver that is being set, then expects an increase in the deficit in 2020 from 1.4% to 2.2%. In order to achieve this increase we must hope for a positive and benevolent judgment of the European Commission, but to date, the outcome is still uncertain. Therefore, we are once again relying on the hope that the European Commission will have a positive view of us. That is the impression I have had today, that of hope. We are entrusted to hope and we hope well, especially for our country but, especially for Italians. We come, however, to the maneuver. We all know, because we have already had the opportunity to explain a whole series of data, that the maneuver to be financed amounts to about 30 billion, of which 23 for the decommissioning of VAT clauses. We also have to finance industry 4.0 and the reduction of the tax wedge. The latter is also a finding, but the Italians know that it starts from July 2020 and that there is still a margin of time within which anything can happen. With regard to the main cover, revenue increases are foreseen; we have explained this and we have all talked about it: the fight against tax evasion, with a recovery of about EUR 7 billion. The fight against tax evasion must be done, but 7 billion euros have never been collected throughout the Republican history of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] €7 billion of savings due to the spread is expected, which improves. We have never been fans of the spread, but today's random situations in which we live and also the crises and oppositions, which are already there, in this Government could certainly lead to a rise in the spread. So, these are also figures that are definitely not certain. All this, translated and summarized in clear words, that Italians must know: increases the tax pressure. This is the main point of our maneuver, because the tax burden rises to 41.9%. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] So, the Italians know that in this financial maneuver there are taxes. That is why I said that the whole contradiction of the Government emerges: because it hopes for inflation. Inflation is generated today by consumption. What's the government doing? Tax to the Italians. Therefore, Italians will not spend because they will have less money to spend and to dedicate definitely to consumption. That is why it is a maneuver which, on the contrary, is so expensive both consumption and investment. NADEF itself points out that this is certainly not a period of economic growth, but this is not only about our country, but also about Europe and the international situation. The drive to domestic consumption that was expected from the notorious income of citizenship unfortunately - alas - was not there and this failure we had certified in this House already a year ago. The income of citizenship has been a failure and the Government still hopes illusoryly that the Italians will spend more, but how do they spend more at a delicate time and uncertainty like this? Today the Italians save and do not spend, just go and see the deposits they have at this time on the current accounts, in investments and in their savings, that have reached about 1,400 billion euros. In this context of waiting and distrust, therefore, the government's manoeuvre does not introduce any element that gives impetus to growth, indeed, as we have already said, depresses the budgets of families and businesses with new taxes. When a dynamic is particularly weak, such as the current Italian but also international one, it is necessary to introduce appropriate measures to boost growth, in order to ensure the sustainability of public finances and the confidence of investors in particular. Today the country needs to put the public debt back on a reduction path and not to go to Europe with the hat in hand to ask for additional debt for another 14 billion euros. Who will pay these debts? Future generations, our children. This government is also in debt. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , in fact, over the three-year period, additional debts of approximately EUR 100 billion are foreseen. If the debt serves to do something serious and constructive, of the investments, fly of our economy, we would be happy too, but unfortunately it is not so. You will also leave - alas - to future generations a "grown" of debts on their shoulders, a chasm that we continue to dig with our hands. Finally, I would like to talk about another important chapter: many young people flee abroad, our graduate rate is very low and even in NADEF there is absolutely no talk of school and education, on the contrary, a point of investment in school is removed, about 1.8 billion being taken away from school and education. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We continue, therefore, to take time, to put the dust under the carpet, to postpone, to go in the opposite direction to that of development and we cannot accept that. For these reasons, we express our negative opinion on this financial. We have a duty to tell the Italians clearly that this Government is incapable of making really effective proposals to increase the growth and productivity of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u54	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u55	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in voting for confidence in the Government, I said that I would vote on the various proposals on the basis of what my opinion would be. I shall vote in favour of the two votes that await us today. The hearings have emphasized, of course, that the Update Note probably has some not irrelevant margins of optimism, but this - we have to say - is a characteristic found almost every time in the past years and, at least, there is no clear rejection - to use this term - by the parliamentary budgetary office that had been there last year, with all the tensions that followed. However, I would like briefly to express some concerns and I hope that the Government will take them into account when preparing the budget law, because only then can we make more thoughtful judgements. I do not know if the Italian State and its budget have the strength of a bull, I do not know. But even assuming they do, our bull is about to enter the plaza de toros - out of metaphor, in the two Chambers of the Senate and the House - for the annual bullfight, that of the budgetary session. It's just that as he prepares to break in, the poor bull already has on its back many flagships, well penetrated, stabbed by previous political majorities, and no one dares to remove them, I don't think not to bring pain to the poor bull, but not to disappoint the various constituency that were behind the sticking of each of those flags by the different parties. This is what Senator Richetti said this morning, when he recalled how the income of citizenship and quota 100, which did not have a brilliant result in the early days of their application, cannot be questioned, unfortunately. When assessing the budget law, when it comes to it, I would like to say from now on that it will be very important for me to see its effect in terms of generations of Italians. You see, the debate on who is in favour and who is against austerity itself is totally tantalizing and childish: who can be ideologically in favour of restrictive policies? I don't think so. I also believe that no one can support, if he has a minimum sense of responsibility, that a certain restrictive policy is not necessary during financial emergencies. It is a good thing that the last time Italy was affected by a serious financial emergency, the most diverse parties, from the People of Freedom (which included what is now the Brothers of Italy), to the PD and others, took on an attitude of great responsibility, unlike the League and the 5 Stars, who were not yet in Parliament. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If everyone had done as these last two, we would not be here, as a free country, to discuss our future. But it is clear that it is like with the umbrella: if there is a situation of difficulty one the umbrella opens it; when you are no longer in the situation that required it, the umbrella closes it. But be careful: to close the umbrella because there is no longer a financial emergency (and therefore to be able to make policies that look more at growth and development) is not, in my opinion (but I may be wrong), a good reason to bang the closed umbrella, with its knotty stick, in the head of the children today and the children who will come. This is exactly what is done every time the government deficit, large or small, goes beyond the public investment of that year. If you do public debt, but there is a serious public investment - including, I know well, human capital, not only physical infrastructure - you pass something on to future generations, which will enable you to serve that public debt with interest. Every time, however, there is a deficit that is not motivated by this, it is precisely the worsening of the condition of our successors. Fortunately, public opinion is becoming very sensitive, also in Italy, also thanks to the Greta phenomenon, to climate change that, if not fought and won, will be a deadly mortgage on the future of Italians and others. But in addition the Italians have a second huge cloud on their head, which is that of their public debt. It would take a public debt Greta, Mr. President. Perhaps, however, there is and should do its duty: the Greta of public debt is us in this House, our fellow Members and the Government. If future generations have an impossible life compared to their European peers, if they do not find work and do even more work today, they will be able to read our names if we have continuously approved measures that we like to call flexibility; however, whenever flexibility goes beyond what is justified by what is done with public debt, that is, good investment, it is a betrayal of the new generations. That is why I hope that Italy will be a little more attentive to the interest of the future Italians (who should be more at our heart than the European Commission) and, if anything, create more space in the investment-friendly stability pact. Let's not consider winning the Italian national team one billion euros more flexibility each time, if we spend it on things that will weigh on our children and grandchildren. I would like to say one last word about tax evasion, which has perhaps been mentioned too little, but someone did so this morning. You may have seen that this morning the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) published a fundamental document proposing a real revolution in the way of taxing the profits of large multinationals. On this line, I believe that the European Commission and the Italian Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri (who, luckily for him and ours, has not only the task of managing the flexibility tap, but also the competence on taxation) will support the action of the OECD. By making a concrete case, if individual countries were isolated, how could they try to have a fairer system of taxation on multinationals? However, in addition to the multinationals there are Italian taxpayers. I hope that, in any way, we will not consider any hypothesis, even larvata, of pardon, because this is a slap to the loyal taxpayers and a premise of new evasion. Of course, fair, scrupulous respect for taxpayers' rights, but I hope that no one looks sweet and gets handsome with very understanding slogans towards taxpayers. Moreover, starting to conclude, if it is cash, instead of sophisticated mechanisms, I think it is difficult to understand and apply, we have received many times neutral international recommendations, outside the Italian political struggle, that we could bring back a little 'down the roof relative to the use of cash, where it was once, before the protests of those who use the cash because it prefers not to leave trace of the transaction, not necessarily for great recycling but also for things of the daily life that you prefer not to make explicit. Well, at this point the interest of public finance is above these comforts [[Applause from Senators Collina and Conzatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u56	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u57	Mr President, in the analysis of these policy lines on the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document, I would like to stress one aspect: if it is true that markets need confidence (and in the economy we need confidence to make it better and that the country can grow), I would say that if I were a financial operator or maybe an entrepreneur, to see today's debate sincerely, confidence would be much less. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Just look at your gloomy looks, your little propensity to believe what you have written in the DEF Update Note. I'm telling you, do something because three years like this is a really good depression. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We tell you: it's really hard. Therefore, the invitation is this, also because then, as it was said, that the maneuver is recessive we do not say it, Confindustria said that until yesterday it was used, at least compared to what it said, by the then opposition of the Democratic Party as an element on which to curl up against the then yellow-green government. So if Confindustria's comments were worth it then, it is right that they should be highlighted even now. In fact, what we are examining is a bit of a maneuver of nothingness, it is the maneuver of living: we are here, we do not want to go home, we do not want to go to vote so let's make a right maneuver to continue, let's look at 2020 and then we will think about it. It is a maneuver that says nothing and does not contain any turning point on growth because - you wrote it on page 35 of the Note - against an investment of 0.8% deficit, the real effects of the maneuver are seen in this table: a shy 0.2 for 2020, a shy 0.2 for 2021 and absolutely 0 for 2022. A deficit of 0.8 per cent is expected to increase by 0.4 per cent as a result of the manoeuvre. So, basically, the maneuver costs more than what it makes, to say that it is expansive is really something that is not in heaven, nor on earth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then, as is classic, some tax is hidden here and there. Now it's fashionable to use words in English: tax expenditure. A citizen at home will ask himself: "Caspita, what will it be?" but Mr Tosato is right: it is a fraud. You cut deductions, deductions and benefits, so you increase taxes. Use the best Italian. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As with the remodulation of VAT, my colleague Mr Tosato, among the various words, has forgotten what he often uses: harmonization of budgets. Oh, my goodness! One of those words that they really wanted to say: new taxes for everyone and even in that case other than fraud, is even worse. But now there is the green new deal, another totem of the new pagan religion of unbridled environmentalism. We all agree that policies are needed to combat climate change and protect the environment, but we do not want this extremism to become an excuse for promoting a certain type of financial capitalism - and we understand, perhaps the evergreen one - and, on the other hand, the alibi to impose new taxes, not for the rich because then these taxes will be paid by normal and poor families, as is usually the case in these cases. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I tell everyone, including Senator Monti. Since you stand, even as a government, on the help of senators for life, rather than listening to Greta, I would listen to a senator for life who is not present today, that is, Carlo Rubbia, an academic physicist who has said several times on the climate that we must invest in technologies and research if we want to make protection measures. So, maybe ask him some advice because between Greta - with all respect for the youth movement and what they did - and Carlo Rubbia, forgive me, I choose one hundred thousand times Carlo Rubbia, one who has studied and has made an academic path and we are still for the respect of science, of those who have studied and of those who may better explain certain phenomena. There are also very few investments in the maneuver. I have heard a pappardella several times that investment must be made that would be the only way to increase growth. Indeed, 50 billion euros in fifteen years are very few, bearing in mind that there were already 105 that had been allocated by the then Government Gentiloni Silveri, but we all know that it is not as important the amount that we allocate as the fact of being able to spend the money. Since you have written that you want to monitor the reform of the procurement code and that you are not even very convinced of the simplifications of the unblocking yards, I doubt that even one of those 50 billion can be spent. So from this point of view too, the invitation is to reflect. Then you have not written even if on the leftovers of administration, in the end, you will want to continue to give the municipalities this space that has undoubtedly generated a little 'gross domestic product. In fact, what little growth there is today is dictated above all by that vision and by that line that the then government had put in the content of the budgetary maneuver. We'll see. Undoubtedly, these are just the policy lines. As for the cutting of the wedge, the maneuver is correct and correct but definitely ridiculous, beyond the controversy of the ugly copy of the 80 euros that have become 40. The real issue, however, is that it is not a reduction in labour costs because the rule is for the benefit of workers only and not of companies and companies. On the subject of companies, companies, entrepreneurs and those that make this country go on (and that, let's face it, so we understand beyond the cut of the parliamentarians pay us the salary: they get up at 5 in the morning to work and get a "bunch" so much and in the end it is they who pay the salary to all of us), there is not a line in the Update Note of the Document of economy and finance. Not even confirmed is the fact that the cut of the Ires, as planned, will be or not in the maneuver, which from 24 percent of 2019 would reach 20 percent in 2022. There is absolutely nothing on this issue either. We would therefore like to have some answers and some certainty from this point of view. Not to mention the fact that there is no trace of the reform of the tax system. As always, we are talking about recovering tax evasion. The considerable amount you have entered is absolutely not credible and once again we take it out on the little ones. We always look down on the poor people, because it is not in the fight against cash that there is the ability to fight tax evasion: it is the big financial multinationals that escape more. This was certified by the CGIA di Mestre just a few days ago saying that they escape sixteen times more than small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yet, once again, we are going in that direction by establishing a climate of terror. In order to recover one or two billion from the false compensation, the Daspus is threatened against accountants. I create terror with a message like: Beware that if you're wrong I'll make you pay. This will have the effect of inhibiting compensation more than legitimate, that for fear will not be done and for this reason you will be able to recover some money. It is a climate that hurts the country because there is no need for terror, trust is needed! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We need a tax reform: we need to reduce taxes if we want to recover funds, just as we did with the flat tax that made us recover certain figures. We must not forget that if we want to make sure that credit cards are used in a larger way, we must not invent anything: you must only do what Mr Bitonci as undersecretary was doing in the last government, just copy. We also give you an easy advice and suggestion: go to zero banking fees, as is the case throughout Europe. You don't understand why only in Italy if you have the point of sale (POS) you have to pay links, commissions and anything else. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's where credit cards are easier to use. If I go to Europe, even if I spend three euros I can pay with the card; it would obviously not be convenient for us: the operator would not earn anything and, on the contrary, he would lose us because of the link and the commissions that must be paid. That's the way to go. We give you another suggestion, otherwise you tell us that we are only saying no and that we are the ugly and evil opposition, but we are not doing so and I am pleased that undersecretary Malpezzi smiles and revives the House a bit: you also help me in this direction. I recommend the issue of deductions: given the possibility to deduct certain expenses because with this system in other countries has recovered the evasion, because it undoubtedly becomes more convenient to make invoices, especially in certain cases. So, we have to reason and work in this direction. I'm just gonna close by remembering something. I have in my hands the entire shorthand report of the last discussion of the Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document; I have read it all, especially, of course, the speeches of my colleagues in the Democratic Party. Now say that you have taken Italy for hair: fantastic, a wonder! As if Italy were in an extreme state of difficulty. There is a little page of the DEF - it should be page 61, if I remember correctly - where, if you go to see, it is said that with the settlement manoeuvre and the operation made by the old government Europe had stated that the accounts were in place: the deficit / GDP ratio was at 2.04, we had respected and therefore there would be no infringement procedure. We had recovered resources, and thanks to the provisions, everything was perfectly online. And yet you told us it was all a disaster! Now you go to a deficit /Pil ratio of 2.2 and say you have caught Italy for hair? But that's enough, there's no more of this story, there's no way that if we're deficit-deficit, we're gonna screw up the accounts, but if you're gonna do more, you're gonna save Italy. But enough with the lies! Lies have short legs! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u58	Senator Romeo, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u59	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Just because it's decaying, I just wanted to remind you that pension spending has fallen and that interest on debt is also falling (do you remember the famous spread?). If you go to page 42 of the Note you can see that interest on debt decreased, from 2018 to 2019, by about 3.3 billion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, where are all those billions of euros of spread, expenses, interest? You wrote it! And then what really weighs is precisely that citizenship income that you of the Democratic Party have strongly contested in the last maneuver and that you are preparing to vote today (because it is written in the Update Note to the DEF). So good luck with your constituents, go to Unity Day. It's okay to say, "We made the alliance because we had to stop Salvini" (and maybe someone will tell you in that place that you did well); but go and say that you go and vote for the citizenship income, which you had severely contested. Here's your consistency! It is for these reasons that we will vote, that I do not now announce... [[Comments from the PD Group]] It burns, huh? When you say "time" it's because it burns. It's true, it's burning. All right, thank you, ma'am. We're done. The effect has been achieved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u60	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u61	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when I commented on the investiture speech by the President-in-Office of the Council, Count 2, I said that in my opinion it was a dream book, I was sure that the numbers would not deny my rather easy prophecy. Mr President, let us see if I have understood correctly, in the sea of figures (all useful, for goodness sake), to make a summary of them, as an average educated citizen of Bra might understand. If I understand correctly, this is a 29 billion euro maneuver, of which 23 billion are used to sterilize VAT, about 4 billion for non-deferable expenditure and 2.5 billion for the tax wedge. Stop, we're at 29. On the revenue side - which are not really such - there are EUR 14 billion in deficits, EUR 7 billion in an alleged recovery of tax evasion - which is a bit of a spell, to be honest - and more revenue from other sources. However, I would point out that, according to the Parliamentary Bureau, 80% of the corrective measures (over EUR 14 billion) carried out on the revenue side, there is a very strong risk that the cover will prove to be random and that the revenue will be lower than expected. [[Senator Romeo's applause.]] (13.23) (Follows BONINO). So, if I read correctly, I don't understand the 22 connected. Last time you had done 12, of which two were not made, so much so that they are included in this list of 22. These 22 connected go from the green new deal to the measures to support and enhance the family, from a public investment bank to continuing the reduction of the tax wedge, to the revision of the discipline of the ticket and the exemptions for the specialized services etc. There is also support for agriculture. But support, now I am used to it, in this country and in Parliament means more and more money. So, if I didn't misunderstand, where are the resources to support - as they say modestly - these connected and these new ideas? Some may be funds that have already been allocated, presented as new and otherwise packaged. However, this is the situation, burdened by a political necessity that comes from the previous government, which has already been mentioned and which I want to reiterate: quota 100, which seems to be untouchable, and income of citizenship. Neither of them has had extraordinary successes in promoting growth; indeed, it is the reverse. As far as the income of citizenship is concerned, a machine has been set in motion which has not found any jobs, not even one. At 100 I could tell you that it is extremely penalising for women because, for obvious reasons, they have a less continuous career; the fact remains that it is a burden that we carry with us anyway, because because of the political necessity of it we cannot free ourselves. I told President Count (of the Government of Count II) that, beyond the Government of doing, it was necessary to find the strength to undo: I am referring not only to the security decrees, which today is not the time to deal with, but to the need to undo nonsense from the point of view of the economic estate of the country and the revival. With reference to the approximately 14 billion, which I think the European Commission will authorize, the fact remains that it is always a debt and that it is always a deficit. Today the debt-to-GDP ratio has reached over 135 percent. If then there are no real will and possibilities, frankly, for a revival of the economy and we are firm, the idea that the more we overdo ourselves and the more we win is a false idea. You call it an expansive maneuver; I call it a maneuver that carries with it much debt for ours and for your children. There is this basic idea, which many continue to have, that more spending, both current and debt, is equal to more growth. But it hasn't and hasn't been in over 20 years. We have a lower income than in 2000, just to be clear, and a shyness to face new steps and new sectors, apart from securities. Politically, we cannot even attempt, for example, to legalize our 500,000 irregulars, who would pay taxes instead of working in black. The emergence from the black, as everyone knows, even the kindergarten children, is a positive fact. But that can't be done politically. So what do we do? I think from this point of view it will be interesting - I say - to see the support for the well-known 22 connected ones that will be presented. For the moment I would just like one thing; Senator Errani, did I understand correctly in the great figures I gave? Just to talk to a middle-class citizen of Bra, who needs to know if he's understood that the big numbers are this, that money for investment there are none. You can call the green new deal or even in German, if you want, but the money isn't there. Let me understand where you find, for example, the money for the family act, which I would support, unless I remodel and take a share of the 80 euros, but we are always there. So I cannot give a positive opinion. I shall vote against the economic framework presented, which seems to me to be written on water, as well as the previous one, presented to us by President Conte- bis, was a book of dreams. The harsh reality will be what we will have to face. It is not true that more current expenditure, more debt, equals more growth. It has been denied for 20 years and if many of you refer to the success of the left in Portugal, perhaps it would be good to go and see what the left has done in Portugal, which is growing much more than we are, and what policies it has used to get to this point from the abyss it was in. It's not what we're doing. The middle class is completely abandoned from all points of view and it is worrying that this is a document of economy and finance not only shy, but - in my opinion - negative. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I could have started my speech by saying that one of the biggest tax reductions in republican history has been made with this Update Note on the Economic and Finance Document: 23.1 billion for 2020 and almost 29 billion for 2021. But, paradoxically, people will not understand it because they will not have an immediate perception of it; they will have it on January 2, 2020 when, buying in stores, you will not find most of the purchases with VAT at 25%. Here is the difficulty of explaining what NADEF is. I could have focused on the constructive reasoning for growth, starting from the first intervention of 2.7 billion in 2020, which then doubles in 2021 to reduce the tax wedge, that unpopular technical speech that we are pulling forward from 2006, which in fact represents the difference between the income from work actually paid and the cost of labour borne by the companies. These issues have already been addressed by my colleagues from Italy Viva, and they have done so. So I want to focus my attention and draw your attention, if I can, to two fundamental but somewhat neglected fiscal aspects that are analyzed as annexes to NADEF, but which underlie and support it in fact. The first is the programmatic report on tax expenditure. I'm sorry Senator Romeo is no longer present. We use in Italian the term tax expenses, instead of tax expenditures, which comes from a path started with Legislative Decree no. 160 of 2015, concerning the procedure of monitoring and reordering of tax expenses and which includes two instruments: the programmatic report of 2019, attached to NADEF, which is an act of a political nature, and the annual report 2018 of tax expenses reconnaissance, which is an act of a technical nature. The first thing - let me say now - is that there is a need for regulatory action that better defines the logical-temporal relationship between the two basic instruments of monitoring tax expenditure; an operation that can be done immediately. Why is this necessary and why else is there a one-year breakdown? Because it is important that the relationship between these two instruments is aimed at achieving clear objectives. The timing of this House does not allow technicalism, but we can say that there are basically three reasons. The first is to reduce tax costs. We have 142 out of 513 tax expenses relating to the Irpef (more than a quarter), but above all we have 44 out of 142 which have an effect on income of less than 10 million. Think of what it means, from the point of view of simplification, to go to a clear reorder in this sense. The second objective is surely to ease the tax burden, while the third is to make the tax system fairer. However, this requires two things that the third programme report does not report. The first is the proposals for remodulation or confirmation of ultra-five-year tax expenditure, while the second is the identification of tax expenditure which overlaps with expenditure programmes for the same purposes. I say this because the monitoring of tax expenses must be considered a work in progress, because so it was born in legislative decree 24 September 2015, n. 160 and not to find ourselves in the condition of the monumental work historically appreciable done by Vieri Ceriani in November 2011 and then no longer updated. The ratio of the norm is different. If we develop this work in progress we will find ourselves with an easy-to-manage result. The second theme relates to the Report on the performance of measures to combat tax and tax evasion and the Report on the economy not observed. This is what we can basically refer to the tax gap, i.e. the difference between theoretical and actual revenue. The level of detail of NADEF is really high. Moreover, it makes us understand, for example, the 21% decrease in the tax gap on the dry coupon, thus highlighting that that was a virtuous policy. At the same time, it notes with concern the increase in tax gap on excise duties on energy products (plus 28.9%). Only from this data can we deal with the great problem of tax evasion, which has been present in more than one intervention and which has materialized in 109 billion. The figure must be read not only as a lack of revenue, but - above all - as unfair competition from those who sell goods and services at lower prices than those who pay taxes and cannot do the same. Therefore, this is an evasion that affects efficiency and fairness and hinders the smooth functioning of the market, as well as the statutory redistributive mechanisms. In this regard, I recall that the tax delegation law of 2014 had created both a process of simplification of spontaneous fulfillment and an incentive to fulfillment (the so-called concept of friendly tax, which is not an oxymoron). Well, the report explains to us that from 2014 to 2017 the propensity to escape has been reduced, with a gap in revenues that has been reduced from 95.4 billion to 90.8 billion. The relationship between tax and taxpayer was changing and tax compliance was increasing. In 2018, this process broke down. The contrast to evasion - we see it thanks to the Revenue Agency - is that of a decrease of 4.5%. Do you know why? Because the word has been spoken that should never be said: "condoning". Either we leave the logic of the condones and restore that virtuous circle that allows citizens to believe in the state, or there will never be the possibility to make a conceptual change that will lead to the improvement of the condition of the citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is therefore a need for coordinated action. Let us not forget, however, that part of this money will also go to the tax relief fund. It is clear that NADEF has developed guidelines and strategies for combating evasion that need to be pursued through an organic plan. You know why I talked about IRS earlier, man? Because this is what arises from the overcoming of the contrast between a collusive relationship between politics and citizens, linked to the logic of pardon and that, in a commuting motion, of a vexatory type, with abuse of presumed instruments. This opposition must be overcome in order to arrive at a dimension which, by introducing elements of reward, develops a virtuous circle which, alone, will enable this Government to achieve the ambitious objectives contained in NADEF. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u64	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document, first of all by recalling my profession. I, like others in this House, am an accountant, a professional figure who, certainly more than others, is forced to suffer and confront the results and consequences that NADEF will create. Well, if so, I would like to remind the Government and above all call to the attention of the undersecretary Misiani - whom I thank for the seriousness that in its incipient activity is nevertheless putting towards our needs - that the category in these months has perhaps lived one of the worst and most troubled periods of its history, if it is true that, in over one hundred and twenty years of profession, there were last week the first strike and the second manifestation in the history of the accountants. The Government, therefore - moreover in consistent continuity, alas, with the Government Count I that I have preceded it - it has managed to bring to the square the accountants and this because on the topic of the synthetic indices of reliability (ISA) has not been able to reason in terms of confrontation, it has not been able to dialogue with the category that acts as bridge between the economy and the national financial system and the enterprises. We did not understand the reasons for the continuing difficulties and we did not realize that we can not even arrive in August with circulars that change and change the structure of the ISA, to reach the last circular in early September, three weeks after the conclusion of the work. In essence, a class of professionals was forced to work in the impossibility of confronting themselves with objectivity, serenity and certainty with those entrepreneurs who should then guarantee revenue to the State. This is the starting point in which the category was found to operate, already troubled by the problems I have said and already displeased by the fact that I have never been consulted de facto - and it is not only the current Government that has been guilty of this responsibility, but also the previous ones - and assumed as interlocutor of the financial administration in creating and applying the laws. The laws have always been made by Parliament, as it is right that it should be, without first confrontation and were then interpreted and applied, often going beyond Parliament and beyond the will of the legislator, by the revenue agency thanks to the sad - alas - 1999 reform that delegated precisely to the Agency of the revenue of the powers that, in my opinion, are certainly excessive. Well, the category of accountants, in addition to being always crossed and not listened to, has even had to suffer in these days the shame of what the Minister two days ago told us to be one of the many fake news releases in the newspapers and fortunately - and as accountant I thank the Government for this clarification - the DASPO, that is a measure reserved for stadium thugs, is not considered to be appropriate to the figure of professionals. But I wonder why so many fake news came out. I have a lot of esteem and appreciation for the Italian press and I have a lot of respect for our journalists, but I don't think they have a fantasy to invent so many fake news in a few hours. I quote a newspaper, the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), in which we talk about colf, tax crimes, taxes on cash and, indeed, the DASPO. The few concrete things related to NADEF have turned out to be lucky for fake news, that is falsehoods. I am pleased that this is the case, but I will be allowed by the government representatives to doubt that our journalists really have such a fantasy in inventing really unfriendly and serious situations. Now entering the most technical aspect of NADEF, I really want to stigmatize how, perhaps more than other years and perhaps more than with previous governments, the Note of updating to our examination is really a book of dreams, which rests on the foundations of clay. I explain this very clearly and clearly: the maneuver, which is recalled in the numbers and considerations of the Update Note to the DEF, turns around 30 billion euros. Well, of these EUR 30 billion, about three quarters serve to disable the safeguard clauses - and let's do it! - i.e. VAT clauses, amounting to EUR 23 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the maneuver is based on a deficit of EUR 14 billion. I would also like to understand from the government how it has managed to achieve a transition in the deficit-to-GDP ratio, from 1.4% to 2.2%, and how it has managed, so easily, to obtain this elasticity from the European Union, which I welcome. However, the fact that, in a few months, from the DEF to the NADEF, we can move from a ratio of 1.4% to 2.2%, some consideration makes it over and I would also like to have some more clarification. However, I repeat, it is EUR 14 billion in deficit and therefore a further boulder. The rest of the cover is represented by EUR 7 billion in recovery from tax evasion. That's nice! Finally, after for so many years the numbers and history tell us that it has never recovered so much, suddenly, in this Update Note to the DEF we think we can recover 7 billion euros from the escape. We are all happy, because certainly none of us can not enjoy in front of such a happy event. But when I read these numbers, I wanted to go further and see what they did in order to be able to balance 7 billion euros of tax evasion. I expected - and with me one of the major tax experts, Professor Maurizio Leo - to see applied the only true foundation of the fight against evasion, i.e. a policy of tax reform based on the opposition of interests. Only in the contrast of interests between those who sell the good or give the service and those who buy it can you really solve a fundamental part of the tax evasion, because in this case the citizen or the user is encouraged to ask for the invoice and the documentary feedback of the performance that goes to receive. There is none of this, however, but tax evasion should be overcome with the use of credit cards, i.e. by imagining an old lady who goes to pay the bread with her credit card instead of cash. A few reflections on this subject obviously comes to my mind. The weather is unfortunately tyrant and so I have to try to get to the conclusion. If these are the sources of NADEF, I'd like to propose something else. I would like to remind you that a country that really wants to get out of the dry land and that really wants to overcome a negative contingency, like the one we have been living for years, cannot think of making a financial maneuver after another with small Reminds. Everyone puts in his own: who put in the bonus of 80 euros, who a small citizenship income, who put something else, while today is expected a small update of the tax wedge. Colleagues, these are all measures which, taken individually, are positive, but which do not participate in an overall framework, which allows the country to move forward and to overcome the obstacles that we face. [[Call the president back.]] Synthesizing, given the President's calls. I wonder: why have we not taken the measures of recent years, such as the EUR 80 bonus, which is worth EUR 10 billion? Why didn't we take the citizenship income, over which we saw the non-performance that he had, which is worth 7 or 8? Why didn't we really follow the road of Cottarelli, where you can really, between tax expenditure and spending reduction, recover billions more and then yes, recover a budget of at least 30-35 billion on which to set a real tax reform, a true reform of the sources, that can then lead to those jobs in infrastructure and growth that serve our country? Mr President, these are the measures that a serious government and a Parliament that really cared about the country's interest should take. Along with that, I would have expected a few more words on credit. We are certainly aware that the small business has been penalized - now we say almost all - by those credit reforms that have seen, in the last parliamentary term, the annihilation of the popular banks and that have, in fact, produced a radical transformation in the high sense, that is, in the sense of a large bank, of cooperative credit and the consequent death of territorial credit: that credit that served our small enterprises. On this too, in NADEF I see nothing concrete. That is why, and I shall indeed conclude, Mr President, I cannot accept that invitation which Mr D'Alfonso, with his usual sympathy, had addressed to the oppositions in the Finance Committee: the call for a benevolent or tendent abstention. On the other hand, I must clearly say that we are opposed to this NADEF, because we are opposed to a measure which has nothing for development and which, from the point of view of sources, really has sand under its feet. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u66	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Mr Tosato and Mr Romeo are not here, because I have found their speeches extremely emblematic of the moment of difficulty that the League is experiencing. Senator Tosato offered us a sample of sentences made that betrays great superficiality and a lack of almost amazing arguments. Senator Romeo has gone further. His speech was pyrotechnic and put us in front of the most politically significant fact that we, in my opinion, have to comment in the discussion of the DEF Update Note. The opposition, which was a dominant part of the Government until recently, feeds a story in which there is not everything that happened during the period, in our opinion very dark, that ended with the month of August. It's as if that period never existed. It is as if those who today have to prepare the budget law for 2020 can do so from a clean slate. The main news that we must give to our colleagues in the League and also to the public who follow our debate and will have to get an idea about our decisions is that we do not start from a clean slate at all. We are starting from the need to defuse 23 billion safeguard clauses. And, in the absence of the decommissioning of these safeguard clauses, we will have an increase of VAT of 23 billion, in a country that is already stagnating, as the latest published statistics tell us, and that is stagnating, to a large extent, because of the climate of uncertainty that especially the representatives of the League, in the sixteen months behind us, have fueled, with rash statements and even more daring and often senseless acts. We have been a country in which we have been able to discuss quietly, on the part of people with institutional positions, the convenience of Italy to get out of the euro; where we have discussed very long, with contempt for ridicule, topics such as minibots; where there have accumulated statements and deeds that have increased the discredit of our country; which have aggravated it and had a huge reflection on the cost of financing our public debt which, as you know, is a very large debt. Senators Tosato and Romeo can pretend that all this has not happened, the forces of majority and I believe even the most warned and serious public opinion cannot take this freedom. In politics, the good that is done counts as much as the evil that can be avoided and we with the present NADEF have managed to avoid a great evil: the increase of VAT, which would have inflicted a bat probably irreparable to our economy. We are in condition, if the budget law - I have no doubt that this will happen - will translate into practice the instructions of NADEF, to put the Italian boat back into line of water, to give a turning point to our country and to achieve a series of very important results. Some have spoken of a lack of vision in the ideas and proposals of the Democratic Party, but to me the vision seems quite clear and I think it is quite clear the choice of priorities: we want to support employment and investment, we want a dialogue with the European institutions and not the perennial confrontation to which Salvini had accustomed us with his slums and bumblebeards in the last year and a half. We also want, from this point of view, to try to create a completely new situation. Many would be the areas of work on which we could focus our attention, in an intervention that wants to summarize the meaning of this document of economy and finance. I will give just a couple of examples, in relation to the areas that are most pressing for me: the work and credibility of our choices in the field of public finance and therefore also what this greater credibility that we are trying to build can bring us in terms of the advantages and positive elements of economic policy. As far as work is concerned, I attach great importance to the decision to start a reduction in the tax wedge: we know that the high level of taxation on labour in our country is a great handicap - not the only one, but certainly one of the main ones - which hinders job creation and it is necessary that in a DEF update note that wants to be a turning point, there is a clear sign of change on this front. Of course, if we could have allocated more resources, it would have been better, but I repeat that we are dealing with a very heavy legacy, which is that of the safeguard clauses, which have never been so great in this country. We have always had safeguard clauses to disable, but never to such a great extent. It is also very significant to me that in the DEF Update Note we cite active labour policies as an area in which to achieve ever stronger results, because recent data have been published that make people shudder: our country is with 2.5 million unemployed and at the same time with 1.2 million jobs discovered, because there are so many companies that cannot find people and so many people who cannot find jobs. Active policies are, together with policies of efficiency in public spending, an area on which we really need to increase the intensity of our action and the effectiveness of our action. As for greater credibility, we have chosen not to look for a fight, but to establish a common relationship and mutual respect with Europe, to focus on seriousness and not bullying, and this will bring results. In 2020 we will spend several billion less of interest on public debt and nothing we propose today and we believe we can do would be possible without being able to prevent a reduction in the burden on public debt. Thanks to this, we can also imagine a public debt that, contrary to what has happened in the last two years, will fall as a percentage of GDP from 2019 to 2021. I conclude by taking back some words from Senator Romeo, who said that this is a NADEF to make a living. I don't think it's a DEF Update Note to make a living; I think it's a NADEF that designs a development. But I know for a fact that if we had followed the advice, directions and policies that Romeo liked so much, we would have gone a long way. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u68	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also greet the new government team, a highly qualified senator such as Senator Misiani. Colleagues, before I go into the substance of the DEF Update Note, allow me at least to express a consideration of the economic situation we are experiencing. We are not in the year zero; today the new administration does not start from scratch, but we are in full continuity with those who preceded us, namely a yellow-green government that ruled this country for fifteen months. Allow me then to say that our judgment is negative, very negative on the economic and financial policies of the government that preceded you. We have been to the opposition of the previous Government and we are also to the opposition of this Government. We want to say that our consideration is negative not for such an opinion, evasive, but because it is evident from the actual data. There is a collapse in industrial production, a collapse in our domestic demand, less consumption. Let us be very frank, dear friends: it was inevitable, because the yellow-green government was born of alchemy. You know those children's paintings, when with various sketches they can't create a harmonious picture? You ran to those who claimed more his thesis, his economic formula and came out a patrocchio. We have therefore had a citizenship income that had to guarantee so many jobs and the only jobs are those of the navigators, who still wander and do not know what they are going to do. You're even giving citizenship income to people who don't deserve it: I think of terrorists, I even think of Sword families. Only because of ideological prejudice did you not accept our amendment, tabled by Senator Aimi, which asked not to give the income of citizenship to those who have been confirmed in a final sentence very serious charges, such as terrorism: you rejected it. That's the truth. It didn't even work 100. It is true that the option of early retirement was recognized, but this did not guarantee turnover; you said that for every person who left the labour market another, even two, would enter, and this did not happen. We can't help but talk about spreads. Just last year in this House, Minister Tria had presented a DEF Update Note. Do you remember? That is what Mr Damiani said, too. He had come to this House with a programmatic increase in GDP of 1.5%. The trend for 2019 will be 0.1, 15 times lower. This testifies to the failure of those economic policies, not the chatter. Having said that, let us enter into the merits of NADEF. We welcome the government's sterilization of VAT; we also applauded the previous government when it avoided the infringement procedure by the European Union. But - let us be very frank - you did not have courage, dear new government comrades. You didn't have courage, you didn't affect one of the pillars of the state budget: spending. I'm not talking about spending in abstract terms. When I speak of courage, I refer to the closure of the many companies with public participation that do nothing. Instead of reducing parliamentary representativeness, close those armchairs, which are the result of clientelism. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Don't touch those things there. As many as 4,000 companies are totally useless. They have been closed in the years 500 companies and the State has cashed 420 million euros. Why don't you go ahead with the spending review? What are you afraid of? I would like to say quite frankly that you have not even affected the issue of investment. Perhaps with the new Minister of Infrastructure and Transport you will put aside the crazy analysis of costs and benefits; start public works in this country! That nonsense means that the Ministry still has 50 billion euros to spend, roads and highways that you don't do. The subject of tax is then another architrave of NADEF under discussion. Undersecretary Misiani, you are a very competent person, all of us recognize it, but have you raised the question of why there is so much evasion in Italy? Can it be linked only to the inability or the bad desire to pay taxes? Is it not related to the fact that the tax is not competitive, so a citizen does not want to pay taxes because unfortunately it does not fit him? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A person who doesn't have a VAT number tells him that he is not paid for by a commercial activity, but is an employee. If you have courage, you must make a Copernican revolution of Italian tax, because in other countries it is true that there is evasion, but it is also true that it is in very small size, because everyone has convenience to declare. Get out of this Chamber, look at the shops in the historic center of Rome: they are closing, they are lowering the shutters. You have done nothing on the issue of streamlining procedures. Today it takes eight to twelve months to open a restaurant in the capital of Italy. Have you seen how many fulfillments they have to pursue? How do you think a citizen who wants to undertake and bet on his abilities can normally live? He doesn't. By the way, in London to open a restaurant, the municipality takes 24 hours and if it does so beyond that term sends an apology email. You understand that it is a cultural revolution before it is of a mathematical and economic nature. As I conclude, Mr President, I do not believe that taxes will increase; unfortunately, I fear that they will increase and affect local finance, of which no one is talking, because you will reduce services and transfers to municipalities and those will be forced to affect local taxes. I will conclude by thinking of another subject, of young people. As many as 250,000 young people, many of whom come from the South, have left Italy. I therefore believe that we must ask ourselves why a young man is leaving this country. He does this because he has no hope and without hope he cannot build the future. Hoping always to be denied, I fear that with this NADEF that wall of distrust of young people will not be demolished, but that unfortunately will consolidate. This is our judgment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u70	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u71	Mr President, the NADEF under discussion is ambitious to disarm the safeguard clauses on VAT by maintaining a commitment made with the Italians. Especially at this stage of great uncertainty in the international macroeconomic framework, an increase in VAT would reduce consumption, domestic demand, would further degrade our gross domestic product, would further limit the possibility of an economic recovery. Disarming the clauses is therefore essential, priority and necessary and the Government, in a humble, pragmatic and extremely coherent way, does so and we are grateful for it, indeed we invite it to have no doubts about it. The 2020 maneuver that begins to draw with the DEF Update Note is expansive and puts at the heart of government action our citizens, families, businesses and the country itself. We must be honest: this NADEF does everything possible to give clear answers to individual problems in the narrowness of available resources, according to the most peaceful, coherent and possible scale of priorities. On this we must acknowledge to the Government that in a very critical situation, with the NADEF under consideration, it has managed to transform the needs into opportunities to improve, grow, digitize, make efficient, renew, help at a time - this - that we are living and that it will not show up again. We can't be hesitant to make a real leap in quality. Tax evasion is an example of this. This government has finally cleared a topic, indeed the theme. In the five years of the last legislature and also in the previous ones, the issue of tax evasion has been the most touched from afar, never attacked with particular energy, as the government in office intends to do. Colleagues, President, we know very well why. Because evasion is one of those issues that can bring down a party, a movement, a government, anyone, from the point of view of consensus. Whoever touches the wires dies. It's kind of the same thing. But now we are at the crossroads, at the point of no return. There is no consensus that it holds: those 110 billion tax and contributory evasions weigh too much, we must come to the head in the most peaceful, practical and above all painless way possible for everyone to pay what they have to pay in respect of everyone and especially of those who are worse. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the report on the black economy which, in several passages, clearly shows the efforts made by the bodies responsible for monitoring tax evasion and shows a perhaps excessive commitment to the search for the small escape made in small daily actions and a timid approach - alas - to the search for great evasion. Colleagues, the tables on this page are found on page 126 and on page 157 of the annex to the DEF update note on the black economy as regards the action taken by the Revenue Agency and the Finance Guard. Few hundreds of reports on large taxpayers lead to a tax base of more than ten times that found with tens and tens of thousands of inspection visits made on small taxpayers. Something's changed. Finally, citizens have also become aware that tax evasion harms future generations, draining valuable resources for investment, research and social services to support families. Escape and undeclared work damage honest businesses through unfair competition and harm all honest taxpayers because the process of reducing the tax burden is slowed down and also blocked. On the consumer side, we also have a duty to pass on to our children the proper civic sense of regular payment of the services or goods we purchase, giving up the selfish temptation to save a few change because, at that precise moment, we ourselves become an active part and accomplice in stealing resources from schools, hospitals, public order and the maintenance of the territory. We also understand the discomfort of companies, stifled by too many red tape and high taxation, but the road to fiscal transparency undertaken by the Government through an increasing use of electronic payments, will certainly allow for a simplification of tax obligations. When I heard the President of the Count Council's words about this, during the debate on trust in the new government, I thought we were finally on the right path. Many people tell us, have told us and will tell us that we are those of the pardons, but, colleagues, we have done the dismantling for a precise purpose, that is to put a zero point on the 700 billion euros of warehouse, of records of the Agency of revenues - collection, a zero point on the debts to the tax that must be placed because it allows everyone, especially the unblamed debtors and those who are worse, to have the possibility of a restart, and now we can peacefully move on to phase two that, by the way, we are moving forward with the new Government. The objective of recovering 7 billion from tax and contribution evasion, defined as ambitious by the institutions that took part in the hearings, can be achieved or even exceeded thanks to the technological tools that can be put in place, such as an information exchange platform between existing databases. But be careful: the aim cannot be simply to pursue more revenue at any cost. We must also take this opportunity to profoundly reform the relationship between citizens and tax authorities, to reduce the inconveniences to which taxpayers are subjected themselves or through accountants, in fulfilling tax obligations, to avoid the abuse of presumed instruments that sometimes - and we have had an example of this these days - affect small and medium-sized enterprises, which, moreover, achieve little results. Tax evasion amounts to 110 billion euros in Italy. In this we are among the first, indeed, on some taxes such as VAT, on which it is easy to make a European comparison, we are the first in absolute terms. Tax evasion amounts to 35 billion for VAT not collected, almost 25% of all the VAT that we should collect. The total amount of resources not collected, including taxes, excise duties and contributions, estimated by the Commission - I repeat - is EUR 110 billion. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I very much appreciated the in-depth report attached to this note and referring to the black economy where we are talking about these parts. From there these estimates emerge, but looking at the tables on the fight against undeclared work, on concrete situations, one is surprised, amazed and shocked to note that 70 percent - found on page 196 - of the visits made by the INPS labour inspectors and INAIL, by the Carabinieri's working groups show irregularities on recruitment. It is because it also includes self-employed workers who may not pay contributions on themselves and this is also a serious problem. The rest means that a large number of people are currently being abused at work. I am referring to hours of unpaid overtime, a wage under the table values, irregularly employed workers, those who work without even being hired; let alone those employed by the gig economy and whose problems, alas, we are only now solving them through the labor decree and crisis of enterprise. The situation is disarming, but let us not lose hope of putting a stop to this scourge. This is an emergency that affects all of Italy, all sectors, even in the public, which should be a happy oasis. There are, in fact, public contracts, where cooperatives or pirate companies - not all of them clearly - are in many cases doing meat for the slaughter of workers. Mr President, in Spain, throughout Europe, in Australia, in many parts of the world, checks on undeclared work are carried out systematically; in Italy no. I am sure that women and men hired to do this play their role well and the results speak for themselves, more than one billion euros of unpaid contributions found by just over 4,000 people. It means that they are working well, but perhaps there are few; perhaps we need to increase these people who have to help us in the fight against the scourge of undeclared work. But there is more than just tax pressure, tax evasion, and undeclared work. To weigh on our economy we also have an interest expense on excessive public debt. It was July 17 when I intervened on the famous decree saves accounts. Well, as a spread we were at 185. Then came the famous August 8 and we went back to 250, but we already realized that, if the spread had fallen to more normal quotas like 150, as in these days, or even at lower quotas, we could save a lot of billions. The famous resources we need to find in order to balance the accounts, we could also recover them from there. It's not a difficult thing; we can safely do it. It is mathematical; we have 2,400 billion public debt, with an average maturity of securities of about seven years. With 100 basis points on the spread, a whole percentage point less interest on our government bonds, we would save almost two billion in the first year; five the second, eight the third. These are really important figures that can help us. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that this NADEF is historic and puts at the centre the families that are worse and doing so by guaranteeing important actions towards them, starting from the environment and by attacking tax evasion, undeclared work and spreads accordingly. Let's keep it up, let's all pay, pay less and earn a better Italy. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u72	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that the Presidency has received the motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Faraone, De Petris and Laniece on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. The following motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2) tabled by Mr Perilli, Mr Marcucci, Mr Faraone, Mr De Petris and Mr Laniece, tabled by Senators Bernini, Mr Romeo and Mr Ciriani, were also received by the Presidency on the Update Note for the Economy and Finance Document 2019. The lyrics are in distribution. Pending the replies that will take place from 16, as agreed with the Leaders, I ask the representative from the Government, Undersecretary Misiani, to express the opinion on the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, as well as to indicate which motion for a resolution relating to the Update Note you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u73	Mr President, the Government accepts the motion for a resolution submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. With regard to the motions for resolutions on the Update Note, the Government gives a favourable opinion on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), signed by Perilli, Marcucci, Faraone, Depetris, Laniece, and against the motion for a resolution No 2, signed by Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u74	The Government has accepted motion for resolution No 1 (text 2) relating to the Update Note to the 2019 Economy and Finance Document. The 30-minute deadline for tabling any amendments to this proposal is therefore due from now on. The sitting is suspended and will resume at 4 p.m. with replies from the rapporteur and the Government. (The sitting was suspended at 14.22 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 p.m.) The session is resumed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the debate in which the various political positions were expressed, as is obvious and fair. However, I should like to make a few points. I am starting from the question put by a number of colleagues in the opposition, who have said that there is not enough resources. I would like to say that from an abstract point of view and with respect to our wishes, this is an always valid statement. The Update Note of the Economic and Finance Document starts from the real conditions in which we are operating: the situation of the economy and public finance and the results of 2019. Some colleagues, especially the League, reminded us that for 2019 everything was fine. Then I would just like to make two points. As for the first, we had to increase by 1.5% of GDP. On the contrary, we are stagnant, with a figure perhaps equal to 0.1 percent. We had to collect about 18 billion from privatisations (one percent of GDP). Nothing came in. We had before us a clause of 23 billion euros, almost twice as much as the one left by the previous government. I believe that this is the real picture of the situation, to which we must add the isolation in which Italy was in Europe and also the contribution of the announcements of further clashes with the European Union. The plant presented by the Government must therefore be evaluated taking into account these objective data, which, beyond propaganda, could not and cannot be considered in place for our country. I want to stress another aspect. There are few resources available in 2020, however, ladies and gentlemen, the 23 billion clause is there on the table and it is clear that it weighs like a boulder on the whole maneuver. I would point out that all my colleagues said that it was essential for the economy and the citizens of our country to avoid increasing VAT. It is quite clear that if the objective condition is this - and this is the one - the strategy proposed by the Government must be measured not by 2020, but by the multiannual framework. I would like to say to Senator Friend Richetti that it seems to me quite clear, and in some respects new, the strategy that this Government has set. On the other hand, it couldn't have been that way. If there has been a crisis, it has been political and does not resolve the issue of mojito as it relates to substantive issues. Firstly, we need a new relationship with Europe and not a confrontation. In fact, as demonstrated in 2018, the clash led us to have to lower the deficit-to-GDP ratio from 2.4 to 2.04%, making a resounding reversal on Christmas Eve. The fight didn't lead to anything. Our attitude towards Europe is in no way subalternal, on the contrary it is based on the need for a change of European policies, starting from the objectively negative results for the whole of Europe and, at this point, even for Germany in relation to austerity policy. Substantial data tell us how it is possible to open a new phase in Europe: the choices of the interventions of the last days of presidency Draghi to the European Central Bank; the same condition of Germany, which cannot continue to hold a restrictive policy, as the German Confindustria itself has pointed out several times in that country. There is therefore the possibility, through dialogue, of opening a new phase. I then heard a lot of irony about Greta. Ladies and gentlemen, that place is a global problem, now interpreted by all the forces that want to give a perspective and a future to our planet. There are radical choices to be made, which relate to the structural modification of the development model. In other countries (not here, where we always talk about the same things) there is talk and discussion of a change of the model of world capitalism and the need to reverse consumption trends, as well as a cultural change. The questions posed by that movement and Greta are vital issues, which this Government - this is the first radical novelty - has decided to interpret. There is a plan that predicts 50 billion in fifteen years. However, I dare to go and see all the previous programmings, including those of the previous Government, to see how the investment resources were located. We don't play the three-card game from this point of view. We are all in a system that must take these elements into account. But I would like to point out, with regard to the future concerns and complaints of centralism by this Government, that this plan is focused on two funds: one central and one territorial. I believe that this is the right strategy for realising investment. One thing is therefore the ecological transition, which marks a novelty in our strategy, but which is also proposed, with Industry 4.0, to look in a new way at small and medium-sized enterprises in order to foster that technological innovation which, otherwise, small and medium-sized enterprises alone would not be able to do. There is a problem with credit and there is a problem with the need for a new industrial policy plan in this country. And I am convinced that from this point of view, with that conceptual system, we could make a qualitative leap. I would like to take a moment to comment on this point. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Errani. I'll give you another minute to stop by. Mr Errani, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. There is the problem of investment, on which there are already appropriations. For example, in reply to Senator Richetti, there are already more than 4 billion assigned on school construction and the Minister has rightly decided to do a reconnaissance to identify priorities. But if we want to make investments - I tell the government as a personal contribution - we have to intervene in the public administration. You have to hire the ORs and those who do the jobs and races directions, otherwise we will not unlock the investments. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I hope this is a priority for the government. On welfare I would like to say that I am smiling and convinced that we are taking a step forward. On health, for example, the starting point is very critical: there are two new billions in 2020, which are decisive for the health pact. We must make the LEPs and we must make a series of choices and overcome the constraints that the Ministry of the Economy continues to put and that no longer have reason to be, starting with those on staff, perhaps with an ad hoc intervention to increase the scholarships and thus tackle the problem of residents. In conclusion, I think there's a strategy, but I want to say one more thing to the government. I think we need to propose a new social pact to Italian society. Enough with the statements, the interviews and the chatter of those who say: I proposed this, but the other proposed it. There is a need to give security to the country and it is done by promoting a new social pact, with the social forces and with the whole country, on this innovative strategy and change of the real conditions of the country. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u76	I greet on behalf of the Assembly the delegation of the ACLI di Pioltello, which celebrates the seventy years since its foundation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u77	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u78	Mr President, I unworthyly replace Mr Gualtieri, who would have liked to be with us in this House, but today and tomorrow he is engaged in Luxembourg, for the Eurogroup and the Ecofin, in a place where there is a great deal of national interest and future budgetary manoeuvre. I will therefore try to respond to the demands and interventions, including on his behalf. I would like to thank the senators and senators, both majority and minority, for the debate I have witnessed, for the stimuli and also for constructive criticism. I have taken many notes and will try to answer for blocks of arguments, for a necessary economy of time. Many opposition colleagues have called this maneuver weak, soulless and shy. There is no doubt that EUR 30 billion of commitments are largely absorbed - EUR 23 billion, as the rapporteur, Senator Errani, pointed out - by the decommissioning of safeguard clauses, i.e. increases in black-and-white VAT in existing legislation. This is a record amount, which the government had to face. In the budget law for 2015 the clauses to be deactivated amounted to 3 billion euros, amounted to 16.8 billion euros the following year, 15.4 billion euros in the budget law for 2017, 15.7 billion euros in the budget law for 2018 and 12.5 billion euros for 2019. The EUR 23.1 billion of this budgetary manoeuvre is the highest value ever and it is an amount with which we have had to deal, in order to comply with a commitment that the Government had made to Parliament, when the DEF was discussed, and which it will return to assume, in relation to the resolution to which we gave a favourable opinion. Despite this very important commitment, however, I believe that the government must be given notice that it has built an expansive maneuver - I try to respond to the demands, also from this point of view - not only because the net programmatic debt is fixed at 2.2% - that is to say at a higher value than the 1.4% trend, with an increase of 0.8 percentage points, compared to the increase of 0.6 percentage points of the expansive maneuver of the past year - but because this maneuver improves the macroeconomic values of the country. It improves the growth rate of GDP from 0.4 to 0.6 per cent, improves employment performance and improves the unemployment rate, which at the end of the programming period will be 9.1 per cent, instead of 9.5 per cent. Of course more could and could be done, but what is certain is that this is an expansive manoeuvre, because with the measures it puts in place it improves the development of an economy, which is stagnating today - I stress this by referring to the very, perhaps too ambitious objectives of the budgetary law of the past year - and which we want to restart. We want it to be restarted, by putting in place, beyond the decommissioning of the safeguard clause, which is also very important for the effects it will have on economic development, a number of innovative elements of economic policy. Senator Errani recalled what, in my opinion, is the most qualifying element: the great plan of public and private investments for sustainable development against climate change, to restart the economy and create hundreds of thousands of jobs, making the theme of sustainable development and environmental protection an opportunity for growth for our country, as is happening throughout Europe. Many speakers have mentioned the European commitment of a large EUR 1 trillion plan, promoted by the President of the European Commission. Our investment plan, which is the highest ever, superior to the investment plans of the 2017, 2018 and 2019 budget laws, is consistent with the European objective of a great commitment on the sustainable development side, through public investment, but also through the incentives for private investment that we continue and, if possible, we will widen. I am referring to the incentives of the Enterprise 4.0 programme, which will be confirmed and, if possible, extended to the eco-sustainable investments of Italian companies. I am referring to ecobonus, sysmabonus, bonus restructuring, incentives that have helped the Italian building industry to cope with the blows of a very tough crisis and that can, and must, be the flywheel of a new season of growth of a crucial sector for our economy. A sector that must return to growth, not on the consumption of territory, but on the regeneration of a building heritage that is decades old in our country, which consumes, pollutes and goes, from this point of view, requalified. We want, however, not only to allocate additional resources, but to spend, soon and well, the money that is already available today. I have mentioned the multiannual investment programmes set out in the previous three budget laws. In the three-year period 2020-2022, we have EUR 27.8 billion available, already allocated by previous budget laws, plus the EUR 9 billion, of the EUR 50 billion allocated, which we will allocate with the next budget law. For the country it is a unique opportunity to restart and relaunch our economy. We will be able to take this opportunity, as Senator Errani recalled and many speeches heard in this House, if we return to the public administrations the design capacity, the administrative capacity, the strength to carry out public works and projects and, quoting Senator D'Alfonso, to make many workers dirty with cement that today do not have the possibility to do so, because we allocate resources that are not built and spent. The second qualifying element is the tax wedge. You have reminded many of the limited amount, compared with what would be necessary, of the resources allocated. It is a sign of the budgetary constraints that we have to deal with; it is a sign of a law and a maneuver that must be read on the multiannual horizon, because the 2 and a half billion in 2020 will double from the following year. This choice will have to be discussed, in its implementation, with the social partners (and this is the intention of the Government). It is less of a quantitative choice than it has been in the past. In these days' debate, the 80 euro bonus and the deductibility introduced in 2015 of the IRAP of labour costs have been recalled. Very ambitious and important speeches, which I voted for, like so many others in this House. There's a fundamental difference, though. The significant cut in the tax wedge of 2014-2015 was largely financed with the safeguard clauses, because in that framework of public finance balance it was possible. This cut in the tax wedge is not only not financed by new safeguard clauses, but it takes place within a multiannual framework in which we will completely deactivate the 2020 clause and reduce to a very large extent the VAT increases of the following years. We aim not only to block the increase in VAT in the first year of programming, but also to leave the next budget law a less heavy legacy than we have faced. The third element of innovation is on the social side. The question of kindergartens that, perhaps, quantitatively, in the economy of a maneuver of 30 billion, appears little important is of extraordinary social importance in our country. We have - Istat reminded us in the hearings - a female employment rate of 50%, 18 points lower than the male employment rate and 13 points lower than the average European female employment rate. We have a generation of educated and competent women who could and would like to make an extraordinary contribution to the world of Italian work and who cannot do so because there is a weakness of the network of services, an offer of places in nests much lower than that of the rest of Europe and very unequaled on the territory and there is an objective obstacle to many women returning to the world of work because of the weakness of services and straight lines that in many cases weigh enormously on the budgets of Italian families. We want to act on both sides, to expand the provision of kindergartens (the investment plan will also respond to this need) and to clear the lines for low and medium-income families, to create new opportunities, to reduce inequalities, to widen the supply of women's work and therefore also from this point of view to improve the growth potential of our economy. Of course, it is a first step: the policies for supporting family responsibilities are, from the government's point of view, the long-term strategy that we want to implement with more tools. There is the expansion and gratuitousness of nests, but there is also the theme of the reorganization and unification of monetary instruments supporting family responsibilities, because today we have the household allowance that goes to employees but not to the self-employed, the Irpef deductions for family loads, that go to the large ones but exclude those who earn too little to pay taxes, we have various bonuses, we do not have a single cheque in support of dependent children as happens in Germany, France, Great Britain, in the other major European democracies. The reorganization and unification of those instruments, contained in the majority resolution, are a medium-term objective, because it is a matter of great complexity and we will not be able to deal with it in this budget law, but it is an objective that is important to reaffirm here. Similarly, we reaffirm the desire to defend and safeguard the National Health System, confirming a positive choice of the previous Government, which allocated two billion more to the National Health Fund in 2020 and another billion and a half additional to 2021. In the past, the appropriations under existing legislation have often been reduced, this year will not happen and the increase of EUR 2 billion for next year represents - I would like to emphasize - the highest increase of the National Health Fund since 2014, indeed since in 2014 the amount was conditioned by a decision of the Constitutional Court, in fact this is the highest increase of the Italian National Health Fund since 2010. It is a precise political choice to defend a conquest and help to many families in our country. Many opposition senators have challenged the choice of maintaining citizenship income. I would like to recall two elements, from the point of view of budgetary policy, which strongly justify this choice: in Italy the number of absolute poor tripled from 2007 to 2017 (it was 1.7 million before the crisis and it rose to five million in 2017). Italy, in 2017, before the introduction of inclusion income and before the introduction of citizenship income, spent 0.4 per cent of GDP on policies against poverty and social exclusion, less than half of the European average (0,4 the Italian average and 0.9 the European average). The advent of the income of inclusion before and of the income of citizenship today allows us almost to bridge this gap, because the amount of resources allocated to the income of citizenship brings us closer to the European average, even if we will still remain below. I believe that, from the point of view of the allocation of resources in the state budget, it is a sacrosanct choice to maintain and strengthen in our country a universalist and structural measure against poverty, as it existed in all European countries; Italy, together with Greece, was the last country not to have this type of instrument, which was introduced by the central-left government and strengthened by the previous government. I think it is absolutely reasonable to keep it and, of course, improve it from the point of view of its functioning, in relation to the objective which must have an instrument such as citizenship income, which is to get people out of a condition of marginalization, social exclusion and poverty and reinclude them in the world of work and out of a condition of marginality. Quota 100 is another theme that has been raised. I would like to point out that the 100 quota - which is a measure that has severely criticized those of us who were in opposition during the last fifteen months - is a measure that is costing much less than the initial forecasts: the questions are around 35% less than the initial forecasts. It is a transitional measure, which ends in 2021. It is the Government's intention not to renew it when it expires; we have in mind a different model of flexible retirement age and pension system and we will discuss it with the social partners and among the forces of the majority. The Government's view is not to confirm the measure, leaving it to expire in 2021. There is another element - and I am going to conclude - that has legitimately aroused much discussion in this House: it is the very ambitious objective that the Government has written in the Update Note regarding the recovery of tax evasion. That is 0.4 points of GDP, about €7 billion, as you have mentioned in so many interventions. On this side I say a few things. First of all, these EUR 7 billion will be achieved with a plurality of interventions. They will be achieved by encouraging the use of e-money and I stress the term 'encouragement', because there will be no restriction or penalty to consumers who wish to continue paying cash; there is no tax on ATMs, there is no lowering of the cash threshold, there are no restrictive measures against the free choice of payment instruments by Italian consumers. However, there is a desire to strongly encourage the use of digital payment instruments, because the future goes in that direction and because there are important experiences in advanced countries that show that encouraging the use of electronic cards helps the emergence of black and helps to recover an important share of revenue that is now being taken away from tax. In the same way, it helps to recover revenue from the fight against undue, tax and contributory compensation, as President Pesco recalled; as well as it helps to better cross the databases already in the possession of the financial administration, which are potentially a very important tool for carrying out targeted controls against the sectors at the highest risk of evasion of our production system. There will also be interventions on tax evasion of petroleum products. On the other hand, there will be no measure taken by previous governments: there will be no condoning in this maneuver. To close the season of the condones and sanatories is perhaps the strongest message that can be sent to taxpayers on the opening of a different phase and on the priority that the Government attaches to the incentive to the fiscal fidelity of the taxpayers and to the recovery of an amount of tax evasion that represents an element not only of social injustice, but also, as Senator Marino recalled, of unfair competition between actors of the productive system. Those 109 billion euros taken away from tax and social security institutions (including 36 of VAT, 33 of Irpef, 11 of contributions, 8.5 of Ires) are money that prevents the State from offering public services to social groups that would be entitled to it, which prevent the State from reducing taxes to honest taxpayers. Acting against tax evasion is the best way to permanently reduce the tax burden in our country: pay everyone to pay less, as the President of the Council has repeatedly pointed out. Senator Siri has insisted very much on this issue, with a passionate intervention on the issues of tax reform: I appreciated it, but I do not agree with the approach, the model of tax reform proposed by the League. The flat tax that Senator Siri intended to propose together with the League - which would cost 13 billion and a level of net debt, however dangerous for the permanence of our country in the euro - will not be in the next budget law. We make a different choice: we reduce the tax wedge, i.e. we reduce taxes on workers from low and medium incomes. It's a different model. We reduce taxes to those who, in our opinion, need the most relief of the tax burden. Your model would give much of the tax benefit to the most wealthy part of the audience we had identified. They are two different social models; two different models of tax reform. I believe that this Government cannot be accused of a lack of courage on the issue of reducing the tax burden, and that it cannot be accused even by looking back at what has happened in the last three years. In 2018 the tax burden was 41.8% in this country; five years of progressive reduction. In 2019, with Matteo Salvini in the government of the country, it rose to 41.9%. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. With Count! [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u79	Colleagues, we get it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u80	Mr MISIANI, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. The last budget law, which is reflected in the trend in NADEF, would have brought that tax burden to 42.6 percent. After the Update Note, the move that the Government will take in the next few days will cut that 42.6 percent, and, as Minister Gualtieri recalled in the hearing in front of the Joint Budget Commissions of the House and Senate, we are counting not only to reduce the 2020 trend by much, but to have a 2020 programmatic below the 2019 final. Therefore, unlike the previous budgetary manoeuvre, we will reduce the tax burden on Italian taxpayers in 2020 compared to the tax burden on Italian taxpayers in the year that is coming to an end. All this is built in a framework of stabilization of the public accounts of our country. I have mentioned the very heavy legacy, the result of the action of various governments, which weighs on this budgetary manoeuvre: the 23 billion clause that go up, to current legislation, to 28,8 since 2021. We will disable that increase, we will make the innovation choices that I have tried to describe, and we will do so by putting public debt back on a descending path, which is the best choice that we can make - I look at Senator Monti - for the future of our country: from 135,7 in 2019 to 135,2 in 2020 to 131,4 in 2022. We will do this by saving a great deal in interest on public debt, because the real dividend of the credibility that this country has regained in Europe is linked to the enormous savings that we will have on interest compared to what was only expected six months ago. In 2020 this country will spend 6.8 billion less than the initial forecasts; 11.9 billion less in 2021, 17.6 billion less in 2022. This is the dividend of a European government; this is the dividend of Italy's rediscovered credibility in Europe. In conclusion, there is a fact that struck me very much and that is perhaps the best legacy towards a country that all too often thinks about the elections immediately following and too little about the future of the new generations. In 2020, interest expenditure on public debt, after so many years, will return to being lower than Italy spends on the education of our children. It was not sustainable a country that used a huge amount of resources in interest on the debt higher than we spend on school, university, research. We have been able to reverse this trend for many years. We want to do more, of course, than is foreseen in the Update Note and we will see that we will recover all the budgetary spaces to strengthen the school system, the university and research, but I believe that this can be a good viaticus, a good testimony of a Government that wants to work with seriousness and determination for the interest of the country. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u84	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Italian economy is experiencing a period of substantial stagnation. Domestic demand continues to be weak, exports face the threats of an international framework characterised by the war on duties and uncertainties on Brexit. In the meantime, emerging economic sectors require a top-level competitive capacity and therefore a framework of rules and incentives that accompany research and investment. In such a context, the increase in VAT would have brought the country into a new recession, would have been a boulder for consumption and for the competitiveness of businesses and businesses, starting with those operating in border territories. That is why our Group will vote in favour of the Update Note because sterilization of safeguard clauses is an absolute priority. I really hope that this will make everyone reflect on the risks associated with the use of clauses. These not only constitute a limit to action for the governments that inherit them. The clauses are a gamble because no one can know the context in which they will have to be sterilized and, as we see, that of today is certainly not the best. From the budget law we will also see in detail the commitment for those of next year, but it is a positive fact that the government has set this as the primary objective of its first budgetary manoeuvre. It is a maneuver, therefore, written by the necessity that will not allow us to judge the strategy of the new Executive for the growth of the country. That is why we will have to wait for the next few months, but the other items on which action is to be taken show a design that, at least in its intentions, is certainly acceptable: reduction in labour costs, measures for families and the middle class, attention to research and development, Industry 4.0, strengthening the health system. All can be accepted with the warning, as the Minister said in the Commission, not to do everything necessarily quickly because haste is never a good counselor but to evaluate well the rules that are being implemented. I therefore ask myself - and I also ask the Government - whether it would not have been better to intervene on the cost of labour next year in a more structured way than it will be possible to put in place now, since, in fact, this is a micro-intervention. I wonder, above all, whether the handful of billions that will be allocated to families will be able to produce the desired effects. I say this because, since the margins are not wide, the interventions must be carefully calibrated. Therefore, we want a strong focus on the middle class, for those citizens who have only marginally been affected by the redistributive initiatives of these years, from EUR 80 to citizenship income. The middle class is the great engine of Italy. We also want great delicacy on the whole issue of self-employment. If you really want to put your hands on the news of last year, you do it to counter the instrumental uses of the flat-rate scheme but without penalising categories of workers who cannot see their relationship with the tax every year. Public investment is also good to talk about in this maneuver, but the real issue is that in Italy there is a treasure: there are 40 billion that public structures and public bodies unfortunately fail to spend. It is a problem that not only concerns Italy, but there is an absolute need to simplify and sburocratize, because the real game is played above all here, in the fact that public and private investments are those with the highest multiplier in promoting growth and development. On private investment, an essential element is ecobonus and restructuring bonuses, on which we must dare more: via too tight spending ceilings, yes to a strong policy of incentives that allow the sectors concerned to consolidate themselves as a central sector of the economy over the next ten years. On the cover-up front, the ambitious objective of recovering EUR 7 billion in the fight against tax evasion is well to come. Italy is not the only country to have this problem, but here it is so heavy that it determines situations of injustice and injustice that are no longer admissible. The instruments are not lacking, as the representatives of the Court of Auditors in the Commission have also pointed out: it would be enough to apply them with greater conviction, rigorously and through a stronger location, so we need to start here. Electronic money can help, indeed, it will certainly do so and encourage the digital use of money is right, provided that you do not rate cash, one of the few remaining forms of individual freedom, which, as such, cannot be compressed: in areas like ours, in Italy, where paying with cash has nothing to do with doing it unjustly, but it is a culture, as also in Germany (other than the Scandinavian countries), you do not have to compress that freedom. We also welcome measures that promote sustainable behaviour for the environment, provided that the tax burden is not sufficient to assert them. For the environment, we need a pedagogical approach, cultural affirmation, which goes hand in hand with a strong commitment to innovation and research. In essence, modernisation is not achieved by an ideological approach, but by an approach that spontaneously leads citizens to take virtuous behavior. This is a danger inherent in some of the measures announced: they must be avoided, for the simple reason that they would only create a dispersal of resources. A further issue is public expenditure, which in Italy is an important item, not always effective. This is because, even when working on its reduction, it has almost always chosen the path of linear cuts and not that of an effective analysis of needs and waste. This issue, too, must return to the centre of the agenda, such as women's employment. All studies say that social well-being is closely linked to the level of employment, which in Italy is among the lowest (59 percent against over 70 percent in the most virtuous and also economically stronger European countries). Measures are therefore needed to reconcile living and working times in order to counter the gender gap that Italy sees as one of the countries behind the back of Europe. Before concluding, I would like to say a word about Europe. We are very happy with the approach that the Government is taking: the 14 billion flexibility, if confirmed, would be proof that with Europe the only way is by comparison and sharing. Of course, there are many things that do not work, such as the excessive weight of the Commission in relation to Parliament and the lack of differentiated economic recipes between Member States. However, this Europe can only change with an Italy that is the protagonist and not the antagonist. I would therefore like to conclude with a wish for this budget law: it is not a manoeuvre that can give a positive shock to our economy; it is written by a necessity, but for this reason there is no room for so many small interventions in terms of quantity, but significant from the qualitative and cultural point of view. An example would be the birth premium: it is a small measure, which I will ask to include in the budget law, which introduces a value element in the relationship between employer and employee. We will see whether the majority will support this proposal. For the rest, we wait for next year: let's prepare to imagine a turning point that puts the country in a position to really turn the page and that it is built without ever losing sight of the public debt, but with an innovative vision and all protruding towards the future. In the meantime, today it is okay to have protected the country from what the increase in VAT would certainly have involved. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u87	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, today's debate on the Update Note has sent back to this House some echoes of an attempt at pure propaganda on the contrary, in the sense of having to somehow completely question all the objectives that we have found ourselves having to correctly include in the Update Note itself. I heard some senators mention it - I think of President Romeo and other members of the League - who pretended to completely ignore the situation that we faced, as a new majority, with respect to the accounts (it's good instead of remembering it all). It's useless to keep going around: when you're in front of 23 billion to sterilize VAT, you're in front of a real boulder. This had never happened, because the safeguard clauses have always been there and every government has played the game of sending them back to the next one, but at such a high level, i.e. 23 billion, I think it never happened. This was one of the fundamental issues we faced. What does the Update Note try to do? It tries to do what we have tried to say in the motion for a resolution itself. In the meantime it is able to set - this is very important - a debt target that someone may define as high, but that has been totally built within a dialogue with Europe, not in a supine or subalternal way, nor giving rise to the scenery that we have seen other times (2.4% first, then the letters and the counter-letters in order to be able to go down to 2,04). Does this mean that we accept certain European rules in a subordinate way? No, because one of the fundamental issues, which we have reiterated and will continue to reiterate and which Minister Gualtieri also set out in his hearing, is to try to change seriously and concretely, so not only in a propaganda way, some rules in Europe. In the situation we are facing at European level, with everything it entails (we know that we are certainly not in a favourable situation), and also taking stock of austerity policies over all these years (e.g. fiscal compact), I believe that the conviction is now mature, not only on our part, but also in other European countries, that it is time to change some rules and then restart a new phase of relegitimization of Europe and European policies, pushing much on the two architraves of this manoeuvre and the Update Note. This means policies of social equity and a strong recovery in investment policy. Of course, given the narrowness of resources, we know perfectly well that, as the public accounts are to date, we still have a difficult situation; we have indicated a prospect, that of the 50 billion. I say - and I insist on this because we must all find the opportunity to move forward - that if we really want to make radically different policies for relaunching public investment, we need not only to focus generically on the green new deal, but also to put in place all the policies of innovation, investment on research, on the care of our territory, on the small and medium-sized works that we need to give a little breath to the local economy as well. That is the key, from there comes the possibility of a recovery of the economy and employment. It is a duty that we have: we cannot fill our mouths with climate change every day without putting policies into practice. Similarly, on the energy transition I say this here and we will fight it: we must review it - I say it to the Government - because the National Energy Strategy (SEN) that we currently have is not good and those objectives must be revised. 32% of emissions reduction is not enough, we have to go much further and that means investing in research and innovation. We hope, also on this, that working in Europe really begins a new season not only of the golden rule, but of the green rule, so that all the investments in the environmental field in order to achieve the goals we have also set ourselves in the 2030 Agenda are excluded from the counting of the deficit-GDP ratio. This for our country is a fundamental thing and a great breath of oxygen. We have the know-how and we have a lot in the field of innovation, especially green innovation: we have to believe it and we have to invest. The fundamental pillars on which a social pact is also built are two, and this applies to Italy and to Europe and the other issue is fairness, the fight against inequalities, and it is also the first manoeuvre on the fiscal wedge, which is certainly restricted - we think we are doing more - but it is an important element, counter-trend, which raises the question of fair fiscal policies and a bit of redistribution. Moreover, I remember the fight against tax evasion, a great battle of justice that we owe to the citizens who pay taxes, who have always paid them and who risk, if we do not recover the money, not only to pay an increase in taxation, as has happened in recent years, but even not to have the services. We can no longer have the European record of tax evasion, even in the near future worldwide. The data is impressive. In the field of tax evasion you must know that the messages are valid: there had been a recovery, but by talking about condons and settling suffering, by sending the message that so much then always comes a possibility of forgiveness, the data gets very heavy and we have already seen those last year. This is the other fundamental axis of the interventions. For a long time there had been no more talk of strengthening and relaunching the public universalist health system. We are faced with problems of great difference between regions and regions, which also means inequality between citizens; on this we must intervene and this is the second axis of the Update Note. Another big issue, which always concerns the social side, is that we need to agree on housing policies: zero land consumption, but also in this area we need innovation and recovery capacity. They are the two axes, environmental and social justice, that will allow us also in this situation, difficult to the point of view of the public accounts, to put in place a real possibility of change for this country. For this reason, we are announcing as Senators of Leu the vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Pesco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u90	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, the Update Note for the 2019 Economy and Finance Document and the report to Parliament on the return plan have been proposed, as we know, by a new Government in our country, with a different majority, with a DEF that had been written by another Government and with a new European Commission that will take office on 1 November. Such an astral conjuncture, unique for its coincidences, implies a greater and profound responsibility, responsibility that has already been exercised with the very birth of the Government, which has reversed the course with respect to the economic fundamentals of the Country. Two examples for all: the decline in spread suggests a GDP growth of 0.6% for next year and 1% for 2021 in NADEF's policy framework. This is due to a reduction in government bond yields and a reduction in spreads. Both factors would lead to raising domestic demand and put Italy on a path of growth. The renewed serious and interlocutory relationship with Europe brings to the Italian Government, as reported in the report to Parliament, a request for flexibility. Faced with what? This issue has been discussed today. As the report says: against costs for contrast resulting from hydrogeological failure in a country like ours and other interventions for environmental sustainability. The whole world talks about this, with our girls and our boys on the streets and in the square, with Greta representing the symbol of what they ask of us: building a present and a sustainable future. Does this reversal of course seem to you to be little? Absolutely. The greater responsibility of the majority lies in the commitment to completely disable the safeguard clauses of 23 billion in 2020, in other words, not to increase VAT. Yesterday I was at the supermarket and, in view of my speech in this House, I looked very carefully at the receipt. Apart from the fact that not all supermarkets put the value of VAT, there were so many different products, some with 4 percent VAT, some with 10 percent VAT and some with 22 percent VAT. The sum, with an expenditure of about 25 euros, was equal to 2 euros of VAT. Well, the political substance, even in setting this government off, is that the receipt, for all mothers and fathers of families, all Italian citizens and citizens who go shopping, must remain intact with respect to the increase of a tax such as VAT. The Update Note prepares the 2020-2022 budget maneuver and therefore deals with the present and the near future. There will be investments in public resources and spending of everything there is already, as the Undersecretary said, and private investments in the environment and family. As far as measures for the family are concerned, says NADEF, there will be measures in favour of families, in particular those without adequate economic resources and those with people with disabilities, with a single cheque to the third child, which we must quickly implement, with the plan for kindergartens and with the family act announced by the Government. We also hope that there is an important law for caregivers. As we know, the update notes include measures of growth, the reduction of the tax wedge, but, as the rapporteur, Mr Errani, said, is a signal. One issue is citizenship income and 100 quota, as the Government has said now: these are measures expected by those who must be beneficiary, by those who must retire, by those who must receive citizenship income. I have opposed this measure, but the presence of the Undersecretary allows me to say that we, with a lot of secularism and a lot of sense of reality, must try to understand how to adjust and make more usable the income of citizenship. As regards women's employment, I believe that we have an extraordinary opportunity at this stage in the life of our Republic and that women's employment is not only a codicil, always put in the budget documents, but that it is the centrality for the development of the country. I am particularly pleased that in the NADEF reform programme there is a commitment to a standard for equal pay for women and men. Moreover, there are legislative proposals in both branches of Parliament. I agree with Senator Conzatti, who has just spoken, according to whom, again, we must see the issue from another perspective: equal pay must be pursued not only for a matter of justice (although it is just and of course important) only for the acquisition of rights, but also to increase the wealth of the country: female employment increases GDP and the creative and productive capacity of women increases the well-being of companies. Some of the employment figures indicated by the rapporteur, Senator Errani, are encouraging, especially on the increase in hours worked. This is important by thinking of the poor workers. Very well the table with the unions, established by this Government, for the safety of the job and to counter the undeclared work. Senator Pesco has said this very well in the tables: the contrast to black work must be our guiding lighthouse and give meaning to our presence in Parliament. On the work of our time, the second recommendation of the European Council of 9 July last concerning the need for Italy to promote the improvement of skills, in particular digital ones, must be implemented. It is also written in the report to Parliament on an environmental plan that the conversion of the production system is essential. Some say that we must accompany this change of economic paradigm and investment in the green economy, but skills and the care of skills and training are the new occupational and social protection of our time, similar to that which, in our opinion, was Article 18 of the Workers' Statute in the 1970s. Therefore, the battle for skills will be crucial for our Group. Let me now turn to the issue of the investment plans mentioned in NADEF, the green broadband and extra-wide economy, the digitisation of public administration and artificial intelligence. These investment plans must always be accompanied by an employment plan, with the skills needed and, consequently, cascaded, with the educational, school and university policies needed by the whole country system. I conclude by recalling that economists coined the term "black swan" to indicate an event not expected in economics. Today's black swan is the international economic framework - as we have all said - with the US-China customs war, the manufacturing system crisis in Germany and the uncertain outcome of Brexit. This black swan cannot but be opposed to a climate of confidence, which can only result from non-increase in VAT, investment in environment and innovation, with adequate employment plans, and a large investment for the family. First, the League Leader said we had not so cheerful looks. I don't know how to tell you this and how to look at it, but I believe that, by holding these factors together (not increasing VAT, investment in environment and innovation, more employment and family), we, with a look of confidence, can proceed. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I preannounce the vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2). [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u93	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, today we are about to vote on the motion for a resolution on the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document, which is nothing more than a policy framework for public finance for the next three years, i.e. until 2022. In the document that we read are announced, dear Undersecretary, 22 related to the budget law. So let us give our appreciation to the Government for the objectives, so important that it is only a reply to those related to the budget that you announced in the Note of 2018. A year ago, however, the yellow-green government had been more conservative, limiting itself to approving 12 related. Of these, some have been made, as you all know. I remember one for everyone: the income of citizenship, of which, as Brothers of Italy, we would gladly have done without. Others, on the other hand, are repeated in this NADEF. But the question that arises spontaneously is as follows: if the first Conte Government failed to implement all 12 connected to the 2019 budget law, why can the current Government think of realizing 22 of these connected ones? Our feeling is that this is a book of dreams and that most of these points are words written on paper that will remain so, because this majority is no less quarrelsome than the one that preceded it and if these are the premises, we are sure that the same conclusions will also be. Mr President, if we look at some of the aspects contained in this Update Note today, we realize that we cannot support an act that promises to combat tax evasion by introducing a tight fight against cash. We are and will always be opposed to this aversion - which is an all-left aversion - to the use of paper notes, which trigger a state of tax police. We do not say that now, we have said it in the election campaign and in the Senate there is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group, Brothers of Italy, which calls for the abolition of the limit to the use of cash. We believe that the fight against evasion does not justify the decision to limit the spending capacity of the Italian people. Just to be clear: with the money you earn you can do what you want. You want to recover tax evasion, Mr. Undersecretary? Do you want the names of the greatest evadors we have in Italy? We tell you who they are: they are the giants of the web, the giants of the e-commerce. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] They are those who sell products and services in Italy, but taxes pay them in their tax havens. We cannot tax the small merchant and the entrepreneur with the receipt and the electronic invoice and then close our eyes to these giants who make money in Italy without giving any contribution to the national economy. It is unfair and not acceptable. For this reason, as Brothers Italy, in the Update Note we would have expected to see a more courageous action than this Government. There is only a hint on the web tax or the digital tax; we are still - as you know very well and I remember it - waiting for the implementing decrees. If you want to fill the state coffers, make a serious and effective web tax and don't waste any more time. We also give you, if possible, Undersecretary, another suggestion to combat tax evasion: taxes must be lowered. Say this in the document and on NADEF you wrote it in black and white. VAT consignments with a flat-rate scheme have made it possible to recover a gap that is almost EUR 2 billion. You said it: fewer taxes coincide with more revenue from the state. So I wonder, what happened to the flat tax? It is not in this Update Note, nor in the next Budget Act. You said just now, Mr Undersecretary, that flat tax is not possible because it costs EUR 13 billion. I remind you that our flat tax, the one that Giorgia Meloni has been talking about for years, is an incremental flat tax, which costs nothing: it brings out the submerged and you can do it right away. What are you waiting for? Mr President, with regard to the emergence of the flood, they have been so good - and we apologise if we underestimated them - that they are ready to bring in the recovery of 7 billion. We talked about this yesterday in the Commission, Undersecretary: 7 billion from the fight against tax evasion. You know that's not true and that's a lie. With the introduction of e-invoicing you have tried to recover more than EUR 2 billion, almost a third of the EUR 7 billion you are now chasing. You will try to glean something more with the electronic receipt and you will also be able to completely erase the use of cash, yet you well know that no other massive measure will make you reach the amount you have programmed in the Update Note under review. A solution could have been - and you know very well - to recover the EUR 7 billion: it would have been enough to suspend or cancel the income of citizenship. For a truly courageous maneuver, you should have taken note of the failure of this measure. That it is a failure we do not say of the Brothers of Italy Group, says the same Note that you are preparing to vote and that I quote: From the data of the labour force survey, the increase in the participation rate which should have resulted from the accession to citizenship income and the resulting labour pact has not yet fully emerged. You say it yourself in NADEF on our exam. A year ago, in this House, while discussing the DEF 2018 Update Note, the Brothers of Italy Group warned the Government in office that citizenship income would only be a welfare measure, simply going to expand the audience of beneficiaries of income inclusion. A year later we can say that we have been easy prophets: citizenship income was not ready to work, as the then-Giallian Government would have wanted, and at present it is only an income support measure and not an active labour policy. This is an additional reason for us to challenge this measure. We ask as center-right and as Brothers of Italy: if you want to make a serious maneuver, the 7 billion euros destined for citizenship income move them towards a massive cut in the tax wedge, towards public investment, towards fiscal policies, towards concrete measures towards workers and businesses. We also avoid, Mr. Undersecretary, handing out handouts to nothing, and in some cases also to thugs and ex-terrorists. We also tried to look for something positive in this NADEF: in the newspapers we read the roaring announcement of Prime Minister Conte, who said he had found the money and that there will be no increase in VAT. Then, during the hearings of Minister Gualtieri, a few days ago, we convinced ourselves that there is probably a bluff, because to say to defuse the safeguard clauses does not exclude a remodulation of the VAT rates and, if it happens, this means to mock the Italians and this, as center-right and as Brothers of Italy, we will not allow it. I shall conclude, Mr President. In this Update Note they have done nothing but insert a series of good intentions, at least in their perspective, but there is not, in this document, a rag of political stance. It is news these days that, in order to defend Franco-German interests on Airbus, we risk also serving American duties on our products exported to the United States. We are penalized twice by the lack of sovereign capacity to be masters of our choices. Colleagues of the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars, in particular, you have made an unwritten pact, evidently, to divide the power through the hundreds of appointments you are preparing to make and the palace games, which you are already making regarding the election of the new President of the Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Calandrini. Mr Calandrini (FdI). I shall conclude, Mr President. Brothers of Italy will oppose each other in all the locations: we will do so in the institutions, in the palaces and in the squares, just as we did at the time when trust was voted to the Conte- bis Government, in which we brought tens of thousands of voters to Piazza Montecitorio. We will not give you any rest on this. That is why our vote, in line with what we are, can only be a vote against. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u94	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Classico-Istituto d'Educazione Superiore (Medi-Livatino) of San Marco dei Cavoti, in the province of Benevento, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u97	MANCA (PD). Mr President, Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Amending Note to the Economic and Financial Document, as my fellow Members Mr Parrini, Mr D'Alfonso, Mr D'Arienzo, Mr Bini and Mr Ferrazzi have already mentioned, is the first important political act of the new Government. (17.21) (Following MANCA). In fact, it not only defines the boundaries of the budget law, an important maneuver of public finance, for 2020, of about 30 billion euros, but, in our opinion, it has a precise identity, an ambition, a vocation, a political project. Not only is it consistent with the government program, but precisely because, through the Update Note, we go to an update of the public finance framework on a three-year dimension, offers a vision, a political objective, a proposal for the future of the country, with a three-year legislative horizon. We say it now, we have no doubt about it and we do not want to hide it: the macroeconomic context is insidious. It is characterised by low growth, increased social inequalities, worsening economic prospects in Europe and in the heart of Europe. We are faced with a commercial tension between Continents and with duties can produce serious damage and serious repercussions, especially at the expo, the most qualified sector of Made in Italy, on our agricultural products, on the size of the industrial manufacturing system. They are our excellences, the know-how to do and the good doing that brings Italy to the world. The whole macroeconomic framework is undoubtedly facing these major difficulties and that is why the challenge is important. Some opposition colleagues called it a dream book. On the contrary: it is with elements of concreteness, seriousness and reliability, a useful design for the future of the country. I say this with intellectual honesty, even when addressing my colleagues in the League, who this morning tried to justify the inexcusable situation in the face of this economic framework, which was easily predictable, which we all knew and which we had heard in all the hearings, even during the discussion of the previous budget law. It was also predictable in August, in the month in which, unfortunately, the League carried out an escape, ran away from the government, demanded full powers and participated in the summer holidays. All this is not compatible, I say it with great clarity and clarity, today, in particular also to my colleague Siri, who intervened this morning, showing the muscles of a reform proposal of the tax system, which was not there and which had no concrete landing point, neither in the European dimension nor in the budget of the Italian State. If this were the case, showing the strength and consent, what were the reasons for fleeing from the responsibilities of government, which the League had and could adopt precisely to the government of the country? I believe that, on the other hand, matters are more complex. I have a different opinion. I don't just believe in mistakes and limits. Sometimes, even in government crises, errors and limitations determine the activation of a crisis. I don't think so. I think that the flight of the League from the Government identifies the failure of sovereignist policies, especially on the economic and financial side of the management of public accounts in the relationship with Italians and with Europe. The promises, beginning with the flat tax, that for us were not only unfair and unfair, but they did not have citizenship in the framework of public finance that you gave us and on which we today build the future of this country. There was no economic and financial space for realizing dreams, propaganda and proposals that, besides being unfair, were unsustainable, not agreed and not defined in the European dimension. I say this with just as much clarity: the idea of using fear to manage consensus had also reached a limit. After the decree security bis, there would have been decree security ter, but, in the meantime, also those measures had revealed, not only their wrong face and culturally backward, but they were invading areas of lawlessness, suffering and loneliness in the country. This is what the figures say and the facts show: unfortunately, those who delinquered and this produced, precisely in the failure on return, the emergence of an area of illegality and unsustainableness that damaged the future of the country and also made your propaganda unsustainable and at the limit of its exaltation. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, sovereignist policies have also been defeated electorally, let us not forget that. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). You're talking in the mirror! MANCA (PD). Electorally defeated in the European dimension... I say this to my colleagues in the League: they have been defeated electorally in the European dimension, because today in the new Europe there is a European majority, there is a new European government that has a reform plan on the agenda and with this European Government and with a new European majority sovereignism has been defeated. The League had isolated our country even in the European dimension, this is a fact, it is not an opinion, but it is a certainty. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They are the reasons for your failure and I also believe the reasons for your flight from the responsibility of the country's government. That is why I say with great frankness that the Update Note adopts a courageous political choice, indicates a new path, also of a new relationship between Italy and Europe. Of course, the ambition that we have before us and that we have indicated in the Economic Programming Document is to change Europe, to open a new season on investments, on the reforms of the Stability Pact and also on the imposing and important reforms in the matter of fiscal equity, of recovery of evasion and circumvention, because as we know well - the OECD has also remembered - it is necessary to have a European horizon also in the reforms on the tax system, in particular in order to hit the evasion and avoidance that insist on the great technological platforms, that today live in different and diversified areas, within which the States in solitude are not effective. I say as clearly: the conflict with the Europe you wanted to interpret had produced significant and obvious damage, because you cannot manage the second highest public debt in Europe generating instability, producing loneliness and isolation for our country in the relationship with the European dimension and even more in the instability that resulted towards a new conflict with the market. The second highest public debt in Europe needs to be managed, requires reliability, seriousness, low rates, a spread that can further decrease. We have heard in the hearings all together how much, for the sustainability and the keeping of public accounts, is necessary to keep under control the management of the debt and to remove the unproductive expenditure that your instability had generated in the budget of the state and in the management of the public finances. I am satisfied and also proud when I hear our Government, our majority indicate an ambitious goal such as that of recovering 7 billion euros from tax evasion and avoidance. I'm not homesick about condoning policies. No more rewarding the evaders. Today we need to act, as we have done in recent years, in particular on e-invoicing, on the digitisation of the system, on simplification, because in a state, when evasion and avoidance continue to represent such a high share of our lack of income, there is not only a problem of non-entry: tax evasion unfortunately feeds, in our country, further areas of injustice and injustice, favours an incorrect competitiveness between companies, generates turbulence in the labour market and therefore all this must be prevented through a digitalisation of data, real progress and therefore the objective is not only ambitious, as it is right that it is, but for us it is a question of the credibility of the State in the relationship with the citizen, return to be credible and set a hard and real fight against tax evasion. This is as good as the growth we have shown, culturally speaking, in terms of the reliability of the State towards its citizens. Our vote in favour of the resolutions is not only linked to the reasons I have indicated so far; it is also linked to a political proposal of an Economic and Financial Document that puts investment at the centre, particularly sustainable investment, with a relevant European plan, which promotes support for a new welfare, particularly for parenting, and which I believe creates, precisely through the important effort on sterilization of VAT rates and safeguard clauses, an important positive spill-over. With our presence in the Government we have rendered a useful service to Italians, who otherwise would have found an unsustainable and unfortunately recessive VAT burden for the entire country. The Democratic Party vote is positive precisely because there is a vision and a project for the future of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u100	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, each of us brings our political and professional experience here and I must say that I, as a macro-Economist, often find it difficult to understand what we are talking about. I apologise to my colleagues if my speech today is pedantic; I will not try to be overwhelming or rhetorical, I will adapt to the conditions of the ground, following the teachings of European history, a story moved by the desire of peoples towards freedom, which is not a physical object, like an armchair, but a metaphysical concept, so not for all equally easy to assimilate or interpret. This elusive, shy NADEF of yours drags the country into a swamp and in the swamp would not make much sense to go to office: the battle of Azincourt is worth as an example. I shall therefore confine myself to reminding you of some boring numbers, drawn from a table which I ask the President to authorize me to hand over to the reports, pursuant to Rule 89 of the Rules of Procedure. In 2019, the AMECO database estimates that Italy's real GDP will finally exceed the 2004 level, reaching 1.616 billion euros, compared to 1.615 in 2004. I remember that we are still below the 1.687 billion (at 2010 prices) reached before the 2007 crisis. In other words, the crisis has brought us back fifteen years and it is this backwardness of our well-being, not the alleged burden of debt, the heavy legacy that the period of heterodirect governments leaves to our young people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But things are even worse than that, because when we get back - certainly not with you - to the 1.687 billion in 2007, we will not be out of the crisis: we will be back to square one, but we will have missed all the growth that we could have achieved in the meantime, if we had been led by less insane policies. If we use the data from 1960 to 2007 to calculate this growth potential, we see that in 2019 Italy is about 400 billion below its historical growth trend. To return to this trend in twenty years, erasing the scars of the crisis, an average annual growth of 2.4% per year would be needed. To go back to 2062, when I celebrate my first century with you, it would take an average growth of 1.6% per year over the next forty-three years. It seems like a utopia, but in the meantime it is the growth that registered in Italy in 2010, before the Government of center-right was swept away by the good ones, by those who follow the rules. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So let's talk about these rules. Everyone here is aware of how wrong they are, because the assumption is wrong, that the European crisis is a crisis of public finance. To those who are bored with data, to understand how wrong the rules are enough the fact that today they are called into question by the good ones: the Minister also knows and has honestly admitted it in the audition, but without pose the problem that if Italy is in the disastrous conditions that I have remembered, it is precisely to have followed the rules, indeed: orders! He recalled this on October 3rd on "Il Sole 24 ore" the man who with the famous letter of August 2011 wrote the program of the Governments Monti, Letta and Renzi, that is Jean-Claude Trichet. If it is now discovered that these rules are wrong, it is not enough to change them, as the Minister also wishes. Of course, it is beautiful and noble to look forward; but if behind us there is the PD, with its splinters, looking behind me it seems appropriate. And I'm telling our former allies, too. Who, like all of us, has been harmed for following the rules must demand the refreshment of the damage. It is not, of course, a question of going to Mrs. Germany - the one that turned from her prison camp Giovanni Guareschi, a free man - and asking her back the 400 billion we lack to go back to where we would be if we had not had to suffer the failure of her rules. We would have expected, however, that free men, who, moreover, have the remarkable fortune to be considered credible by the markets, could give a real turning point to the country's economic policy, with an incisive intervention, such as what the League intended to do. On the other hand, nothing: warm cloths, banality - the usual, I must say - about evasion, which - for goodness sake - must be fought, but perhaps without exciting social hatred; that escape, moreover, whose recovery - I would like to remind you - is in itself an increase in the tax burden. So, I'd like to say that if the tax burden has increased, it's because, in the experience of the previous government, we haven't worked hard on the escape of survival. We hit that opulence, as in the case of Kering where, with a single verification with membership, 1.3 billion euros have been recovered. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But no: we must enjoy - from the first page of the DEF - the fake new particularly insulting on the spread. We are talking, then, about interest rates which are so much concerned by Mr Missa, who considers them to be unproductive expenditure: they are a transfer of income for the benefit of other operators, of large capital, of large banks. Let's remember that their oscillation - as the new fake speakers evidently ignore - only affects new emissions, which in August practically did not exist: we had negative net emissions of 7 billion euros, so the $1,000 billion savings, since you arrived, do not understand where they would have come from. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us remember, then, that, when we were told that the main benefit of monetary union would be the drop in rates, the Treasury of our country provided - with great diligence - to lengthen the weighted average life of government bonds, bringing it from sixty-eight months in 2000 to eighty-one months in 2007, and beyond. Small problem: this lengthening took place with high rates. Just think of the share of BTP, long-term and fixed-rate securities, which in 1990 were 15% of the debt; in 2000 they were 54 percent and now 71 percent. In short, we have considered it a great success - a brilliant idea - to be in debt in the long term, in a period of high rates, perhaps to have the privilege of continuing to pay them longer. Now, on the other hand, we do not have the courage to do what all major economists suggest: take advantage of much lower rates, at historical minima, to finance the recovery of the country. Everyone spoke and said that we took a step in the right direction; we could do more. I ask you, then: if not now, with the rates practically zero, when, to use a phrase dear to your culture? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And why this madness? Because Europe is asking us not to do at home what it is doing at home, that is, to equip ourselves for violating the rules. Italy needs a double shock: a fiscal shock and a public investment shock. But he will not have it if those who govern continue to adhere to stale and worn-out liturgies: the medium-term objective, flexibility, the rule of debt, forward looking, backward looking. When, at the beginning of the century, Germany was - as today, objectively, unfortunately, we are - the sick man in Europe, it had the courage to break the rules and then also the determination to change them, claiming that to make structural reforms the deficit was allowed. Well: now Italy needs a serious intervention of fiscal reform, to be financed in deficit as Germany financed in deficit its reform of the labour market; reform that was the beginning of the end of the Eurozone, because taking money with one hand to give them back with the other leaves in the pockets of the citizens the same money. The question is: will the good ones succeed, the credible ones, those who have made us so many "lectionine" - fortunately not mentioned today the well-known South American cocktail - to be heard? With all due respect, I'd like to tell him not to make too many illusions. Who has praised and praised you, like Trichet, because, by obeying, you have damaged the country, it will hardly help you now to repair it. I tell you a secret, dear friends of the Irish Europe, of the dream and of all the beautiful things we have heard so many times. German capitalism is not necessarily a friend of Italian capitalism and not even of the German proletariat and, in the end, not even of Europe. That is what the reports of major business banks say today. Once this way of analyzing reality you called it historical materialism, today you call it conspiracy and your defeat is all in this involution. You have lost contact with the people because you have lost contact with reality. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We now have the difficult, but not impossible, task of preventing you from doing irreparable damage this time. In order to mark this will - I do not want colleagues who today have requested a convergent abstention, on the contrary, a tendential abstention - we declare our programmatic opposition to NADEF 2019. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u103	PICHETTO FRATIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first economic policy document and, moreover, the first three-year plan of the new majority, of the new government of the country. And it falls at a time when the analysis of the international scenario is quite restless, with twenty crises a little around the world; with countries growing double-digit that are slowing down; with Europe and with the locomotive of the European Union - Germany - that are losing blows and even with the European Union Confindustria that question the political choices of eight years ago and the last ten years of the German Government and the European Union. Italy undergoes, of course, this regression of the European Continent with the decline of orders and the first signs are coming from the manufacturing industry of the North. Of course, it resists employment but with inadequate productivity: it emerges from all the data. We continue to have very high youth unemployment and completely lack confidence on the part of citizens. The indicator quoted by some colleagues of savings growth is an indicator of mistrust towards the future. There is also the big demographic issue of births and immigration. These are many issues that have led the outgoing president of the ECB, Mario Draghi, to declare that great structural reforms concerning production, work, justice and school in our country are necessary. Of course - as the Undersecretary has said, which I thank for his presentation and also for the clarity of his positions - the rates are down for the greater confidence of the great financiers, but also because those of other European realities are very negative. We have the problem of duties, but we also have the problem of non-functioning health and school. From the European Union - the last act of 2 July 2019 - we are still told that it would be enough to trigger the safeguard clause and tax buildings. The music hasn't changed yet. What does the government propose? The government indicates investments of about 40 billion, but I would like to remind you that in this country there are 110 billion investments planned in the previous decade that cannot be activated. The government does not tell us how, with what regulatory acts and with what rules it intends to unlock them, because the 40 billion planned for 2020 will have an effect, with these mechanisms, in 2030. They can have, to the limit, an effect of confidence in the immediate, an effect of announcement, as many announcements are made. The government provides for tax interventions and speaks of a tax wedge, for which it provides an allocation of 2.7 billion, for half a year and of course for 40 euros: practically two Renzi halved or a Renzi halved twice, this is. What about the autonomous? What about the more than 2 million self-employed workers and enterprises (SNCs, SRLs, or simple companies)? These have to keep paying. No tax reform is mentioned and the figures are clear to all, such as the need for action to change the tax structure of the 1970s. On the contrary, the other tax message, nine months after the communication that the flat tax up to 65,000 euros would be brought with the second band from 65,000 to 100,000, with the rate of 20 percent, is removed. But what confidence can the Italian people have in this mechanism of announcements and change? Institutional seriousness also means having at least one space of connection and continuity: then of course it is the right of all governments and of all majorities to change direction and go into the opposite. Or let's talk about VAT: the new term of the Devoto-Oli is remodulation, which means increase. Just read the press today, which begin to talk about a rate of 22% on hotels and restaurants, as well as on the tourism sector, which is one of the driving ones of the country, which creates, increases and efficient employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] That's the tax choice. The third leg is social cohesion, Mr Undersecretary: it would be a new fake of the 200 million, because there are almost 400,000 children per age class and with numbers you absolutely can not make us stand the issue. Family policy is completely lacking. We cannot say that we are dealing with it or we are not dealing with the management of the times: while we realize - as you said - that employment and the rate of female activity are closely linked to the management of the times of the family (and therefore the growth of national production in turn is closely linked to it), it will not be resolved with the 200 million because they are really only sand in the eyes. Of course, from that we could switch to school, with the drop-out record and downhill quality, without a word in the Update Note. On security I would just like to mention one aspect: here the accounts do not come back, because President Conte on 24 May 2019 - two days before the European elections happens - received representatives of the Security Forces (in this case the military part) and committed 200 million. There is a law that commits the Government to a formal confrontation, which is No. 195 of 1995, which is not respected. Maybe the law enforcement agencies have to go down to the streets, too? We don't just have to commemorate them, unfortunately. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We also need to be really at the side of the law enforcement. The maneuver is expansive, but an expansive maneuver has a boost on production, supply and, of course, demand. The only thing about production is industrial policy (and in this I join the majority rapporteur). What is industrial policy? There is no industrial plan in this country. One billion has been allocated to 4.0: well, it is certainly positive, but it is a drop in a sea of necessity. On the other hand, on the consumer side, of course, the removal of the safeguard clause is positive, but otherwise there are only EUR 40. The consumer front is trust, it is a mechanism of growth: it cannot only be a benevolent bestowal because, if we no longer create supply and demand, we will never grow. Our stagnation will be that of predicting 1.5 - as has been predicted a year ago [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and then as it was recalled - and to discuss today between zero and 0.1 (1,7 billion out of 1,800 gross domestic product). The numbers have been quoted several times and, therefore, I go further. But of course, on a maneuver of 29 billion, half is debt (so raise to the future) and half is taxes, of which 7 billion recovery of the escape. Let me say that the recovery with debitory records and the industrious repentance in this country travels between 18 and 20 billion a year. That means going to 26-27 billion. That seems impossible to me. I really wish you luck, but I wouldn't want it to be just an operation to push us forward and increase the deficit and, therefore, the debt to the future. The medium-term objective (balance) is postponed to 2025. Growth is estimated at 0.6%, while last year's forecast was 1.5%. Out of 884 billion public spending, 93 percent is current expenditure; this is the picture. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this was supposed to be the three-year design, but there is no three-year design. The VAT safeguard clause has also remained for the years 2021 and 2022 and is therefore not three-year. There is no mention of fiscal reform or national energy plan. We cannot leave concessions to the Greeks, while we have blocked them and we have no alternative on renewables and the circular economy, on the green economy. And the green economy isn't about adding taxation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For the South there is only one announcement, a quote; for the North we keep the brakes on growth. Mr President, members of the Government, this is an ordinary management. The government tries to manage the ordinary only to last and keep everything with debts and taxes. That is why our vote will be against. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u106	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are looking at the Update Note for the 2019 Economy and Finance Document: a document that represents the scenario of public finance, which has been commented on by many in various ways, in this House and not only, but which overall outlines the framework for an ambitious economic maneuver, which has the objective of stimulating the economic and social growth of the country; which thinks of citizens, especially by canceling the increase in VAT provided for in the safeguard clauses inherited from the past. The increase in value added tax would have aggravated the annual average expenditure of each household by more than 540 euros; it would have had a depressing effect, negatively affecting consumption and GDP, and would have generated a regressive effect, losing more weight to the weak sections of the population. This scenario is now averted and I would like to remind all of us that there has been a real risk of the non-sterilization of the safeguard clauses and the consequent increase in VAT, because of the opening of the government crisis caused - I add irresistibly - precisely in the wake of the work on the financial maneuver. [[Applause from Senator Romagnoli]] It must therefore be recognized to this very young Government the merit of having known, with commitment and seriousness, living in reality and not outside of it, to prepare in a very short time all the necessary conditions to avoid the dreaded increase in value added tax. However, this is not the only objective of public finance that is intended to be pursued; there are numerous interventions coming within the maneuver package. Among other things, I would like to mention some priorities: a spending review aimed at improving the efficiency of public spending, guaranteeing a state administration increasingly at the service of citizens and businesses; a plan for the revision and modernisation of the whole country, starting from the justice system, through the digitisation of public administration, bureaucratic simplification, technological innovation and interoperability, finally making dialogue between databases and computer systems, allowing the public and the private to operate in synergy, through the interaction and exchange of information. And again, action is planned to combat tax evasion through a radical cultural change, by entering into a social and economic pact with citizens that facilitates the use of digital payment instruments, which achieves greater traceability of financial flows and thus contributes, together with other measures, to the significant recovery of tax and tax evasion. Then I want to report a web tax for multinational companies that move their profits abroad to pay less taxes and rationalize the many tax breaks currently in existence. The last census speaks of 513 different items, which amount to 61 billion to be exact and are not matched in any healthy tax system. There is also a cut in the tax wedge, i.e. the reduction of labour taxes for the benefit of workers, together with the strengthening of active labour policies, accident prevention and gender equality in wages. To this intervention it is urgent to follow the adoption in Italy also of the minimum hourly wage, which the Movimento 5 Stars considers no longer to be postponed, in order to guarantee a dignified existence to the workers who today are underpaid and many exploited. I would also like to emphasise the adoption of a careful policy to support people with disabilities and to help families, in particular by introducing measures to support the birth rate in a country that is tremendously and severely affected by the demographic crisis; all this by improving the protection in the workplace and facilitating access to childcare services, in particular. Schools, universities, scientific and technological research are also among the priorities. It is therefore intended to increase both the allocations and the infrastructure, improving the competitiveness at international level, also reviewing the recruitment system. We want to invest in the new generations to ensure that everyone can carry out professional and cultural growth paths adapted to the challenges of the future and create the conditions for the return of those who have left the country. This is also done through the relaunch of technological innovation, with measures that encourage private investment in start-ups and innovative small and medium-sized enterprises. At the center of the government action there is then a large program of public investments in modern and efficient infrastructures, with a plan to revive the South also employment for young people and women and to valorize the territory, which provides extraordinary measures able to activate the potential still unexpressed. We want to protect and enhance our artistic and cultural heritage, which is a lever to create new job opportunities and to encourage tourism. It is expected that resources will increase to support and strengthen the National Health System with an extraordinary recruitment plan in the sector to be implemented in agreement with the Regions. Then, finally, there is the real and no longer postponed cultural revolution, that of investments in environmental protection. The main objective is to direct the entire production system towards the virtuous models of the circular economy, promoting the transition of the economy towards sustainable growth in synergy with the European green new deal, gradually also intervening on the system of harmful environmental subsidies. This fundamental change of course fully outlines the contours of a fairer, more inclusive, healthier and greener Italy, but also of a potentially stronger Italy at an economic level. The World Bank tells us that a billion dollars invested in renewable energy sources is capable of generating more than 13,000 jobs, more than double those generated by the same amount invested in fossil fuels. This is therefore the right way to grow in balance with the environment, but also with the public accounts, which we must deliver both to future generations. Turning to the conclusions, I would remind everyone that the 5 Star Movement in last year's economic manoeuvre, despite the already uncertain international situation, has put in place measures to support the unemployed, pensioners, small businesses and the less well-off classes. This year we continue thinking about families, workers, health and the big green investment plan that will help Italy enter a future of faster and more inclusive growth. Today I'm proud to have been able to plan all of this together. But I am even more proud because all this has been achieved by simple citizens who have found the strength to stand up, to react, to oppose the systems of hostile power, entering the institutions to make this country fairer and to undermine the many social injustices that have worn it out. Individually, alone, we could not have done so, but we did not give up, but united in a spontaneous movement, the Movimento 5 Stars, which became great and became strong; an unstoppable force recognized by all who finally, one step at a time, succeeds in transforming this abandoned, unjust and corrupt Italy into a different country [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups),]] A better country. It is for this dream of a better country, President, that, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare the vote in favour of the resolution accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the M5S and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u107	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. Therefore, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 100 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh, De Petris and Laniece. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups]] I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), accepted by the Government, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh, De Petris and Laniece. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani is therefore not included. The review of the Update Note is thus concluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, by agreement between the groups, at 9.30 a.m. on Wednesday 16 October, you will be called for the secret ballot by means of ballots by a Senator Secretary, pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The ballot boxes will remain open until 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u109	I inform you that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the events which have taken place in the Community (Il Forteto) and the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system are convened for Tuesday 22 October, at 6 p.m., to proceed to their constitution. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u110	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-153.ana.u111	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 10 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.06 a.m.
