ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 10 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u3	At the beginning of the sitting, the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u4	The United Association is present in the gallery we compete everywhere (UGO), an ONLUS of Padua. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u5	Senators, as you know, October is the international month for breast cancer prevention. As part of what is universally called the "Pink Month," there will be thousands of initiatives around the world organised by institutions and associations to promote and promote controls and to finance scientific research. In recent years, the number of patients who manage to defeat the disease has steadily increased thanks to early diagnosis accessible to an increasing audience and advances in treatment. Despite this great progress, we absolutely cannot lower our guard. It is therefore essential that everyone in this battle plays their part: also the Senate, because from this afternoon the facade of Palazzo Madama will be illuminated with rose, as well as many other important monuments. [[Applause.]] A symbolic gesture, through which the Senate of the Republic will give its support to all those who, daily, in research and care are at the side of patients to make cancers more and more curable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u6	I communicate that on 14 October 2019 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea...Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 111 of 14 October 2019 introducing urgent measures for compliance with the obligations laid down in Directive 2008/50/EC on air quality and extension of the period referred to in Article 48, paragraphs 11 and 13, of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016, converted, with amendments, by Law No 229 of 15 December 2016, (1547).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u7	President. - The debate is closed. Permanent Commission, Senator Girotto, to report on the work of the Joint Commissions 10a and 11a.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u8	Mr President, on the outcome of the investigation of the work in progress at the Joint Committees 10a and 11a, I would point out that the examination of the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 101 of 2019 has not yet been completed. In view of the progress of the work, it is realistic to envisage that the Commissions will be able to conclude the examination of this measure in time to allow me to report to the House as rapporteur at 5 p.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u9	In relation to what Senator Girotto said, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the work of the Conference of the Leaders, which I would like to refer to immediately. (The sitting was suspended at 4.45 p.m. and resumed at 5.48 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u10	I say that the Conference of Leaders has approved changes and additions to the current timetable. At the beginning of tomorrow's sitting, at 9.30 a.m., ratification for the accession of North Macedonia to NATO will be discussed. The vote on the election of a Senator Secretary, scheduled for tomorrow, will take place on another date. Tomorrow's agenda also includes, at 10.30 a.m., communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 and, from 5 p.m. until its conclusion, the general discussion of the Decree-Law on Labour Protection and Corporate Resolution. The amendments to the Decree-Law will be discussed from Thursday, beginning at 9 a.m. The final vote is scheduled at around 2 p.m. At 3 p.m. the question time will be held with the Ministers for Labour, Education and Public Administration. The week from 21 to 25 October remains reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Leaders also agreed to postpone the election of vacant posts in the Commission Presidency Offices to another date. The schedule of the week from 29 to 31 October provides for the discussion of the document establishing a single chamber committee of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work, the motions for resolutions on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission on the fight against intolerance, racism and anti-Semitism, as well as the decree-law on the reordering of the Ministries and the conduct of the inspection union. During this week, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be able to make communications on the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u11	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the Senate's proceedings for the months of September and October 2019: - Drawing of law n. 1362 - Ratification and execution of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia, done in Brussels on 6 February 2019 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u12	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 31 October: [[Wednesday 16 October 9,30 - Draft law n. 1362 - Ratification of North Macedonia's accession to NATO (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (Wednesday 16, 10.30 a.m.) - Draft law n. 1476 - Decree-Law n. 101, Work Protection and Corporate Crisis Resolution (decades on 3 November) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 17, 15 a.m.) Thursday 17 " 9]] The week from 21 to 25 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, October 29, 16.30-20 - Doc. XXII, n. 4 - Establishment of a monocameral commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing-up office) - Motions on the establishment of an extraordinary commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence - Drawing of law n. 1493 - Decree-Law n. 104, Reordering ministries (date n. 20 November) - Trade union inspection Wednesday 30 " 9.30 Thursday 31 " 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministries) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. The calendar of the week can be integrated with the communication of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the situation in Syria. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 41' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' PD 22' FdI 16' IV-PSI 15' Mixed 15' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1476 (Decree-Law No 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministeri) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u15	FADELI (PD). Mr President, Hevrin Khalaf was thirty-five years old, a young Kurdish woman who has always been a civil rights activist, and has always been committed by women to their autonomy, freedom and emancipation and to supporting the weakest. She was the leader of the Party for the Future of Syria, esteemed and appreciated by the entire international community. Last Saturday she was blocked with her driver while trying to reach Kobane and was brutally killed on the stone road, perhaps even raped. There are videos and photos depicting his body on the ground, his face in the dust. Despite Ankara's attempt to escape all responsibility, there is a strong suspicion (and even more) that the perpetrators of the ambush may have been the militiamen linked to Turkey. In an increasingly dramatic context, in that land of no one who has become the region to the North and East of Syria, this horrendous and violent death is an unbearable fact that cannot but shake deep down all consciences. A death that concerns us, affects all Italian and European women, and affects our entire community. It is also about us, the senators and senators of this Republic, because a woman was killed, violated, trampled on a woman who was a strong and authoritative symbol of the struggle for the freedom of all. The symbol of a people, who heroically fought against ISIS, in a battle in which women have always been in the front row to win peace, freedom, justice, human, civil and social rights, that is, our values, those that define our identity, the same on which our Europe is founded. That is why we should be prepared to defend them wherever these rights are threatened, without ambiguity and without hesitation. The Kurdish women of various cultures and faiths have called on all women and peoples of the world to call for the end of the invasion and occupation of Turkey in Northern and Eastern Syria and for Europe to stop selling arms in Ankara. Which side are we on? On the side of whom fights for freedom or who invades and militarily occupies a territory? It is not enough to declare ourselves against this war. I think we really need to act. We must act to the full and without hesitation to suspend the supply of arms, to suspend and boycott Turkish goods; we need a total moratorium on arms, we need sanctions, we need an embargo, and I think we also need to assess the force of interposition. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] At the same time, we must be promoters in order to send aid and medicines to the affected populations. In these hours women, men and children of all ages are victims of massacres, violent bombings. In their appeal the Kurdish women speak of mothers targeted (and I say only of aim not to say anything else) in their neighborhoods when they go out of the house to get bread for their families, of the explosion of a grenade that reduced Sarah's leg to shreds of seven years and killed her brother Mohammed of twelve years; of neighborhoods and Christian churches bombed; of Christians, whose ancestors had survived the genocide of 1915, killed by Erdogan's army. We can't accept that. Erdogan has passed in a few days from lies to blackmail and we are going to play the Champions League final in Istanbul next year? No! We can't do this, we can't be in Istanbul. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] We know that sport unites different peoples and cultures, but we cannot allow ourselves to be indifferent to what is happening in Turkey and at the hands of Erdogan, so we cannot be there. In addition to the madness of continuing to sell weapons, as an international community we cannot go there to pay tribute to a man who has innocent people killed, who orders the execution of a champion of civil rights and freedoms, who has political opponents arrested and bombed the convoys of journalists to eliminate the witnesses of this disaster. We really cannot accept any blackmail; we cannot accept even those he does to us because he uses refugees to scare us and threatens to invade Europe by terrorists. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] We absolutely don't accept these blackmails. I appeal to all of Parliament to all political forces to say that in a situation like this we must be and demonstrate that we are a united country that fights together for the values that unite us all on this ground. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups.]] That is why it is absolutely important to let go of the disputes, the underscores of our differences, because in this case we must proceed together and call on Europe to take absolutely sure and timely action. We owe it not only for what that people mean, for those women, for those men and for those children; at stake is our identity, ours today, our future. I hope that we will find the right words on this and that there will be choices in this House to be consistent and united together. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u18	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). On October 12, Hevrin Khalaf was killed, she was thirty-five years old when she died. Civil engineer, it was a Kurdish policy with Syrian citizenship that fought for women's rights in the region and for peaceful coexistence between Kurds, Christian-Syriac and Arabs. His death does not yet have certain senders; of course, however, he died in an ambush by a pack of 12 men in uniform who have destroyed his body and who may have raped her before killing her. Hevrin was known for its internationally recognized diplomatic capabilities. The dialogue and emancipation of women in Syria were represented by his face, for this very reason he was considered a dangerous disbelievers. Honoring the life of a woman who died because she believed in the rights of women and the weak among the weakest does not need words, but concrete actions [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Defending those rights means defending everyone's rights. That's what Hevrin did, and that's why she was killed. This happens one step away from us and if we accept all this barbarism today and remain indifferent, we have to ask ourselves what Europe is for. Europe, therefore, wakes up and also wakes up Italy. Serve the ranks and face the common front by activating the instruments available to it; block all the funding to Turkey that has invaded the Kurdish people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the light of a purely colonialist gesture, which smells like blood and lead, it is even more evident today that Turkey cannot enter and must not enter Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Its entry into Europe, and the lack of response from the Union itself, would exhaust the last thread of the minority and women's rights that Hevrin Khalaf wanted to bring to the ears of the world by putting our lives back. We owe him that. We owe it to you and all the oppressed minorities. If this House intends to do so, the League will be the first force to support it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u21	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, we are following with great apprehension what is happening on the border between Syria and Turkey. We are all wondering if this war can give new impetus to Islamist propaganda. It is a serious concern, as highlighted also by the colleagues who preceded me, which is also fueled by the resumption of a strong instability, with the sharpening of an armed conflict that already sees a very profound change of alliances within that scenario, given the withdrawal of US troops. The news we receive really shows us the representation of a violation of international law but, above all, a barbarism, an unprecedented violence, a real massacre against the civilian populations, the many children, women and men, a concrete threat to balance and peace in the world and also a concrete threat to the security of our citizens. The fact that many terrorists detained in Syrian camps under Kurdish control have already escaped cannot be underestimated in any way. We know that in those camps there were about 11,000 terrorists, of about 50 different nationalities, probably backed by Turkish troops, at least some of them: those who carried out the assassination of Hevrin Khalaf, activist for women's rights, secretary general of the Party for the Future of Syria, strenuous activist for peaceful coexistence between Kurds, Syrians and Turks. In the horror video that portrays his death, a voice out of the field sentences: That's how pigs die. I'd really like to remember what's going on, thinking about these sentences, not just the videos and the violence that we really can imagine. I would like to remind Parliament of the many Kurdish women who are at the forefront of civil and human rights and who have the courage to be there to fight with their men and to defend their children and their families. Hevrin has been slaughtered for her ideas, a symbol to be struck by that exasperated nationalism that feeds on the aggression against a minority to strengthen its flags. We must not underestimate the constant threat of an ideology such as nationalism, whether of a secular or Islamist nature, because it is the same that also founded the Islamic State. And this is the main point of concern on which our country must intervene. It is therefore the task of politics and the institutions to intervene with all the means that can be useful to deal with such a difficult and dramatic situation in the areas affected by the conflict. We must stop supplying weapons; we must do so not only as a Europe, despite the opposition of Britain and the resistance of Hungary and Bulgaria, but above all as an Italian Government, in the wake of what France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden and Finland have already done. We want another important institution of European football, such as UEFA, to take charge of the decision not to have the next Champions League final held in Istanbul, the most important competition for clubs in Europe, which will take place in Turkey on 30 May. We do not ask to consider, as the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport has said in some way, whether or not it is appropriate to keep the final in Istanbul; we explicitly ask that the final one be played elsewhere. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, L-SP-PSd'Az and PD]] That competition will bring a turnover of about 50 million euros. Mr President, we ask that this Government of Turkey should not benefit from this opportunity. We are not and will never be on the side of Turkey governed by Erdogan, but we will always be on the side of democratic Turkey and we will do everything in our power to ensure that Parliament can intervene in this respect. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u22	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Alessio Simmaco Mazzocchi" of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u25	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group supports the words of grave concern for Turkey's entire action in the Syrian territory, in the area inhabited and controlled by the Kurds and, in particular, for an episode that almost symbolizes its particularly burning aspect. I am referring to the killing of Hevrin Khalaf, who is a woman who has fought not only for the rights of women in that area - which is certainly much more difficult than those who do the same thing, for example, in Western Europe - but has also fought for peaceful coexistence between the different communities (among Muslims, Christians and other ethnic groups that have been present since ancient times in that area). That's also why she was killed. It is still not clear who killed her, but it is clear that the picture is that of the Turkish attack. They are probably jihadist militias in some way linked to the Turkish forces. This makes it possible to give a face to the victims of this action, but it is doing a lot more. These include an attempt to pacify an area that has already suffered so much from the war that has been going on in Syria for years. We will also be asking for this in a formal manner tomorrow when the President-in-Office of the Council communicates to the European Council, but we are asking and asking for Italy to press for a firm and strong position by the European Union towards Turkey. We have to think, at the very least, of sanctions, but of course they will not be effective immediately because the Turkish forces have everything they need. If it is necessary and appropriate - and it is likely to be - other initiatives will have to be put in place. Therefore, the European Union must be able to reach an agreement. Of course, we also agree - and we have already had public statements in this respect - that we must take action, even if we know that the sports organization has its independence, in order to ask the Italian bodies representing Italy within UEFA to move, in any case and whatever may happen in the coming months, the seat of the Champions League final, which is currently scheduled in Istanbul. It is clear that it is not acceptable, even now for then (and not even when that date will come, for which it takes a few months) that a festival of sport is celebrated in a country that unfortunately in these days, after having given in the past different signals that made hope for a much other direction on the part of the Turkish Republic's journey, is giving signals of contempt for the rights and international conventions, in particular for the Kurdish people who have suffered so much over the centuries and who have distinguished themselves, with his men and women fighters, in countering the monster constituted by Daesh and ISIS, who have caused so many mourning and destruction (not only in Syria, but also in Iraq) and who aspires to spread. We therefore join in the words that commemorate and support the memory and above all the message, work and work of Hevrin Khalaf. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u28	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, the barbaric murder of Hevrin Khalaf, a free and committed woman for the rights of women and for the peaceful coexistence of different cultures and religions, leaves us dismayed, but not surprised. Women always pay the highest price in conflicts; but, above all, free and committed women for the causes of equality and the rights of women and minorities still scare, because their very existence represents an intolerable threat to all fundamentalisms, at all times and everywhere. The barbaric murder of Hevrin, in fact, recalls the assassination of the philosopher Alexandrina Hypatia, which took place in 415 of the Common Era. Centuries have passed since then and these centuries must not have passed in vain. Today it is not possible to remain inert in the face of this kind of barbaric threats. We therefore hope that the whole international community will take a strong stand towards those who believe themselves above the treaties of close alliance and the agreements signed. The fundamentalist drift in Turkey must be recognized without any kind of hypocrisy and firmly rejected by Italy, Europe and the whole international community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u31	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as early as last week we had had the opportunity to speak in this House to draw the attention of our colleagues and the Government to what was happening as a result of Turkey's attack on the Kurds. Everything that is happening and that continues to happen is increasingly terrible in these days and hours. In the face of this escalation we are dismayed and horrified, above all thinking about what happened, namely the barbaric and merciless killing of a champion of women's rights as was Hevrin Khalaf, who represented, during his young life and his militancy, the battle for these rights. Let us observe the ferocity of Turkey, ISIS and all the jihadist militias, which are pro-Turk. It is useless that we continue to revolve around it: all this time the Kurds themselves have defended not only themselves, but also us, and have largely contributed to defeating Daesh and ISIS. We must not forget that Turkey has always helped the jihadist militias through the border. This is also confirming everything that is happening in these hours. The murder of Hevrin Khalaf and the manner in which it took place tell us that the greatest hatred, as it is and has been that of ISIS, is towards women. This is the fundamental element: hatred of the Kurds and the Kurdish fighters. Hate because they want to close that experience; an incredible experience. There, in that enclave, they built a democratic experience in which there are two presidents, a man and a woman. It is one of the most advanced democratic lands even compared to what happens in our countries. They wanted to kill her in such a barbaric way and rape her precisely to mark the contempt for this path, for this great affirmation of rights because they know perfectly well that when there is a real movement of emancipation and affirmation of women's rights, there will be no more room for fundamentalism; there will be no more room for all the terrible Islamic fundamentalism. There will be no more room for authoritarian operations. For these reasons we must be there, we must have no doubt. We must be there to defend the Kurds and to ensure that Turkey is not only sanctioned, but that there is a unique voice in Europe. I would also like to make it clear to the Minister that we are not content with a ministerial decree which only for the future prohibits the sale of arms to Turkey. We need to block all orders that are currently in progress. It would also be a slap for everyone, for free and democratic sport, to celebrate the final of the Champions League in Istanbul. And I believe that Italy, as a country, and the Senate Assembly, with its women, its senators, must not only make a unanimous request for this not to happen, but also have a moral duty to do so. The women fought for us, died in the front row and this martyrdom continues still today. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S, L-SP-PSd'Az,PD and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u34	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, there are some facts and some news about a very complex affair today. The Vice President of the Generalitat, the President of Parlament, various ministers and responsible for the independent associations of civil society in Spain and Catalonia, were found guilty, with penalties ranging from nine to thirteen years. Particularly serious punishments that compared to a system such as the Italian one would be ascribed almost all for serious blood crimes. But it's not over yet. The secessionist politicians repaired abroad will be pursued by an international arrest warrant. An issue, the Catalan one, which cannot and must not leave the whole international community indifferent. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In particular, it must not leave Europe indifferent. The images of police actions during the celebrations of the vote are still vivid, too vivid. They are images that weigh on everyone; they weigh on those who believe that there has been a legitimate path and on those who are contrary to warning. Anyway, they weigh. It is a controversial and thorny affair that sees touches on fundamental principles of all civil societies. Through the meaning of referendum, through the meaning of popular sovereignty, through the meaning of what is sovereignty in the strict sense and national unity. It passes through the contemplation of interests and principles, which concern the same identity processes. However, the resolution of the matter does not go through the use of force, but not even through the judgments that will thus only fuel even more animosity and contrasts within society. The solution goes through a strong institutional political dialogue and an active participation of the international community, respecting everyone and respecting principles that should apply throughout Europe. The United Nations Charter states that there is a need to develop friendly relations between the nations, based on respect, the principle of equal rights and self-determination for peoples. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In all of this, therefore, Europe must be there. It must not just be about economic issues, it must not just be about spreads. Europe must be there. Catalonia is definitely a game of chess maybe too long, too complicated and maybe even poorly played. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u37	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group in the debate that was opened earlier on the very serious aggression that the Turkish army, under the mandate of President Erdogan, is carrying out in these hours in Syria against the Kurdish people and, in general, against the Syrian people. There will certainly be an opportunity to talk about this tomorrow, as the President-in-Office of the Council will be present to make an information report on the European Council to be held this week and to address important issues relating also to Europe's foreign policy. On this subject we have been clear from the outset in condemning absolutely the Turkish invasion and in calling for Italy, the European Union and the United Nations to act together as clearly as possible. In particular, we have called for selective sanctions to be implemented against President Erdogan, the Ministers, the generals involved and their families, because the international community can issue sanctions that will affect those who have taken action against repression and the massacre in the Syrian territory. Sanctions against people, i.e. criminals, are sanctions that really hit hard and often achieve the results they propose. We have called for Italy to take action in Europe to suspend all aid to Turkey, including those granted to support the Syrian refugees who are in Turkish territory, and to eliminate any process of Turkey's accession. The cancellation of the accession process, unlike the suspension, also has immediate consequences with regard to the resources allocated to Turkey precisely because the process of accession to the Union is under way. It could be proposed to make better use of the same resources, to protect the European border and perhaps to help directly those people who have been martyred, rather than let them end up in the hands of those who commit crimes against humanity because of crimes against humanity. That is why we are convinced that Italy can finally act unitedly and it is useful for all political forces to take the same stand in these hours so that Italy and Europe can react to this massacre. It would be serious for the martyr city of Kobane and the Kurdish people who have fought so hard against ISIS to be the victim of those who have actually always helped ISIS. We all know that Turkey was a freeway of terror, which for a long time allowed ISIS terrorists to act from their own territory, in Syria and beyond. The threat of unleashing a demographic bomb against Europe, forcing Syrian refugees to head towards European borders, implies a much greater threat: that of achieving, through this mass of refugees, highways of terror through which the militiamen of ISIS - who are fleeing from prisons where they had been locked up by Kurdish militiamen - can come to Europe to strike it. This threat can only be answered in the strongest possible way, condemning not Turkey, but Erdogan's government and its criminal actions. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u40	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, days ago, the broadcast of the RAI was an incontrovertible testament - unfortunately once again - to the state of health in Calabria and to the difficulties encountered by all the doctors and health workers who work daily in the Calabrian structures and especially all the inconveniences that the sick in that region have to endure. Unfortunately, we have been a commissioner since 2009, with a return plan that prevents us from working independently. These ten years have been a disaster for Calabria, because, while the commissioners and the vigilant ministries cut the funds in an accountantistic way, they blocked the recruitment and were only concerned to make the accounts straight (without even succeed), the hospitals emptied themselves of doctors and nurses, the structures fell to pieces and the emigration of health continued to increase to an extent, raising all those costs that the plan of return in theory would have to reduce. We are faced with a paradox, unfortunately worn on the skin of patients and thousands and thousands of Calabrians, who are still unfortunately forced to emigrate in order to be able to treat themselves. That is precisely why, a few days ago, I welcomed the words of the Minister, who said that we absolutely need to revisit the Health Commission, which I hope will take place as soon as possible. Unfortunately, however, the problem of Calabria is not only the commissionership, but also the unfortunate Calabria decree that the old Government approved a few months ago in Reggio Calabria, during a Council of Ministers made ad hoc, from which it came out triumphant, announcing that text, which is nothing but yet another ruin for Calabria. In this regard, with Mr Siclari and Mrs Caligiuri we have put a question to the Minister of Health, precisely to know what he wants to do with this Calabria Decree-Law. I hope that the new Minister will be able to deal as quickly as possible with the disastrous situation which, for the umpteenth time - I repeat - has come out of the broadcast "Direct take" and can unlock all the hundreds of assumptions that serve in Calabria [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because they impose the right to health, constitutionally guaranteed, and common sense and ask for it thousands and thousands of patients, who simply claim decent services and care. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u41	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Higher Institute of Guglielmo Marconi in Giugliano in Campania, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u44	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I asked to speak because I would like to denounce a new, shameful act of intimidation against our researchers. In this case it is the professor Luciano Fadiga, neurophysiologist of the University of Ferrara, who this morning, going to his laboratories (he is one of the discoverers of mirror neurons), found himself writings on the walls in which he is called a murderer, because of his research activity involving animal experimentation. On the walls of the University of Ferrara there are ingenious writings to burn the laboratories in the name of animal welfare. This action recalls what happened only a few weeks ago to other researchers, to Professor Marco Tamietto of the University of Turin and to Luca Bonini of the University of Parma, who were authorized and financed for their idea and their planning; they work under the rules, of course, and work under the law; they study for us, experiment for us in the context of projects that also take care of ethics, not only of experimentation in general, but also of animal experimentation. I really believe that we have a political responsibility to defend the search for our scholars, to defend the rights of the sick from those who want to stop the research and see our laboratories burn. We want our scholars to stay in Italy to research and study for us; we can do it as legislators, we can really do it in practice against any rhetoric by adapting our legislation to the European directive on animal testing, a directive born after long work. Around that table for years there have been all the stakeholders and they have drawn up a directive - which we have not yet fully transposed - that respects the eticity of research and its objectives and that ensures that not one more rat, but not one less one, is used in the research of our scholars to deliver to the world an extra result, a progress towards a certain cure. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-155.ana.u46	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 16 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.31 a.m.
