ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, redefined the current week's schedule. At today's sitting, from 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, the general discussion on the tax decree-law will take place. As the Government announced its intention to raise the question of confidence in the measure, the Conference of Leaders held the relevant debate. For the debate on trust, which will begin at 2 p.m., after the greetings ceremony to the parliamentary press, it was distributed an hour and twenty minutes; it will follow the call. At the end of the vote of confidence, the sitting will be closed. Tomorrow's sitting will begin at 12 noon after the conference chaired jointly by the Presidents of the two branches of Parliament, at which the Secretary-General of the United Nations will attend. The agenda provides for discussion of the decree-law on the recruitment of school staff. In relation to the Government's announced intention to put the question of confidence in the measure, the Conference of Leaders held the relevant debate. The debate on trust, for which an hour and twenty minutes has been distributed, will begin at 2 p.m. tomorrow. The sitting will then be taken off in connection with the ceremony of the Heads of State's wishes. The explanations of vote on confidence will take place on Thursday 19 at 9.30 a.m., and the call will follow. Taken note of the intention expressed by the Government to proceed to a further extension with decree-law of the term in office of the current members of the Guarantor Authority for the protection of personal data and of the Authority for the guarantees in the communications, the vote for the election of the members of parliamentary appointment, already previewed for Thursday 19, is postponed to another date. The Conference of Leaders also agreed to postpone to another date, after agreement with the Chamber of Deputies, the vote on the formation of the bicameral committees of inquiry on banks and the Forteto, scheduled for Thursday 19. After the end of the year, the Assembly will meet again on Wednesday 8 January, at 4.30 p.m., with ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on the same day to set the timetable for January.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 16 December 2019, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings until 8 January 2020: [[Tuesday, December 17 h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 1638 - Decree-Law n. 124, Tax matter (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on December 25) - Drawing of law n. 1633 - Decree-Law n. 126, Recruitment school staff (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on December 29) Wednesday 18 " h. 12 Thursday 19 " h. 9,30]] The sitting of Tuesday 17 December will be suspended from 12 noon to 2 p.m. on the occasion of good wishes to the parliamentary press. [[Wednesday 8 January h. 16.30 - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs]] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1638 (Decree-Law No. 124, Tax matter) [[M5S 15' FIBP-UDC 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 10' PD 10' FdI 10' IV-PSI 10' Mixed 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1633 (Decree-Law No 126, Staff recruitment) [[M5S 15' FIBP-UDC 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 10' PD 10' FdI 10' IV-PSI 10' Mixed 10' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u7	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group wishes to vote against. In fact, we believe that there really is no limit to the indecent behaviour of an institution that has been characterized, for months now, only by the concepts of trust on the one hand and of referral on the other. It is before everyone's eyes, Mr President, that nothing passes without the question of trust. We are setting a terrible example for our constituents, for our fellow citizens. Most of this must be borne in mind. In the same way, I find it shameful, especially at this moment, when even an important bank in the South is in serious difficulty and Italian savers have yet again to worry about the inefficiencies of control, on the one hand, and of administration and management, on the other hand, which send you further, for the fourth time in four months (I rebadisco, for the fourth time), the convening of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you that a Minister of the Republic, Mr Di Maio, the day before the Bureau, said about Corriere della Sera: we must make the Committee of Inquiry into the banks work. What's the match? That, the next day, that same majority approves a timetable that postpones the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the banks, as well as the Committee of Inquiry into the Forteto, to date to be allocated. This is truly shameful, inappropriate and disrespectful of citizens and voters, who are literally being taken around. We have, and you have, campaigned in a certain way. I repeat, one day before the Bureau we said that the Committee of Inquiry into the banks must leave, and the next day the same majority deny that it does not agree with the President. This is unacceptable! This is unacceptable! You are mocking the Italians and for this reason we of Brothers of Italy, with the pride and consistency that distinguishes us, let's say no to this calendar! [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u10	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the announcements made are objectively disconcerting. We also have ordinary commissions, some for some time without President, convened today for a normal fulfillment. And nothing is done about it. These Commissions, for Christ's sake, may work with a different set-up, but this is a symptom of the difficulty faced by those with numbers in designating presidencies. The non-operation of Commissions such as the one dedicated to the Forteto and the one dedicated to the banks does not deserve further comments. They were wanted with great force, it seemed all very urgent and the chronicle shows us how necessary they are, both of them. And yet nothing is done. I must also denounce the way in which they are dealt with by the government and the supposed majority guarantee authority that they should be independent. I am talking about the Authority for the processing of personal data, otherwise known as the Privacy Authority, and the Authority for Communications. After the expiry of the period of months and months, these Authorities are extended by a decree only for the failure to agree (this is the reason) on their deadlines and their renewals. When Parliament votes on 19 December, it is announced that, pending a further extension decree (which, if I have not misunderstood President Calderoli's words, is not yet in place, and therefore there is still a deadline at the end of the year), a further postponement will have to be made. We are talking about guarantee bodies and a government that does not ensure the functioning of guarantee bodies. I dare not imagine what would have been said in a different political framework if these obligations had been postponed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We all know why there is a postponement. Not just because, perhaps, the majority did not agree. Incredible attempts have been made to use the law of stability for an ongoing reform of one of the two authorities, only to secure, probably, a Presidency complacent to some electronic platform. This is unheard of. I've seen a lot of them, but never such a thing. I had to represent it at the highest level of the institutions, and I thank the presidency of the Senate which has monitored it for all it has been able to and, therefore, that rule has been removed. The attempt is good for you to stay on the record. You wanted to do - what a shame of government - the reform of a guarantee authority with an amendment to the law of stability voted with confidence and with the silent Parliament. What you tried to do was an attack on the Constitution and you failed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Colleagues, know that it is postponed because you search for the senior member of the privacy authority. This is the truth: it is an ignoble shame, which once again pours into the presumed majority. Shame on what you're doing. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u11	Senator De Bertoldi, above all, must I interpret that your proposal is intended to maintain the election of the Presidency Offices? Criticism requires a proposal to be put to the vote. Senator De Bertoldi's proposal is to keep the dates for the appointments of guarantee bodies and bicameral commissions, right?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u14	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we, as a group, do not agree with the timetable, but we agree with what you have just said, Mr President. First of all, we believe that the work of the Senate in this last period has shown all their fragility because the extremely important measures that have passed and which will pass through the Institute of Trust show a clear and demonstrable propensity to use an instrument that undermines the principle of democracy and participation of colleagues of all political groups in the work of the Commissions. The last example is that of the Budget Commission, but there are also other important measures that are coming. We consider the establishment of the Committees of Inquiry into Banks and Forteto to be essential. Especially the latter has been a bit forgotten. There is talk of it; on certain days there is a few minutes dedicated to statements, but then the mechanism of inquiry is not carried out that can deepen issues that have visibility in the newspapers, but that should find a deepening, a conclusion in the most important institutional classrooms. We believe it is essential that this timetable should be specified exactly when these two Committees of Inquiry are to be set up, and when the appointment of the privacy guarantor and those vacant positions which have been determined by political group movements is to take place. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u15	I would point out that Senator De Bertoldi's proposal may relate to the vote on authority and not on bicameral committees, which must be agreed with the other branch of Parliament. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the calendar of the Assembly to confirm for Thursday the vote on the election of the members of the authorities, made by Senator De Bertoldi. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable I have read is therefore still to be established, and it is an integration where I have been perplexed, because today's debate of confidence, which will begin at 2 p.m. after the greetings ceremony, has been distributed one hour and 20 minutes. Then we will have explanations of vote, as is usually the case, and we will follow the call that will take place around 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 1638, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 6th Permanent Commission, Senator Bagnai, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u17	Mr President, my report will be very brief and it is in fact implicit in the order of business that you have just given us. For objective conditions independent of the excellent will and the climate, as always very constructive, that is in the 6th Commission, it was not possible to complete a thorough examination of the measure and give the mandate to the rapporteur. The measure then arrives in this Chamber under these conditions and so I give it to you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u18	In relation to Senator Bagnai's report, draft law No 1638, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies, without report, pursuant to Rule 44, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the question of a preliminary ruling is usually dealt with as a matter of procedure, but I believe that a minimum of attention should be paid to this, because a very serious substantive principle is introduced for our legal system, namely the principle of extended confiscation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I repeat, we have introduced the principle of expanded confiscation. It is true that we are in times when everything is wide (there are larger families, expanded purchases) but as far as confiscation is concerned I would be a little more cautious in predicting such a hypothesis, because it can happen to anyone, as it is congenial, to incur the effects of this tax decree. You must not think of an abstract application, but in concrete terms. Some improvements have been made to the House and you will know them, but the fundamental principle for which a subject - because this can happen - has not been removed, that in order to have loans in the bank goes to get the discount invoices, in the midst of which there is perhaps also an invoice that is not true (because the truth is that this happens always and everywhere, since the companies are choked) can be found in front of the problem of the enlarged confiscation that was expected for serious crimes and that instead it is now applied also for fiscal matters. What does the extended confiscation entail, which can happen - I repeat - to the small entrepreneur, to the craftsman, to the normal people? The great evaders, in fact, travel on other shores. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The only thing that perhaps should have gone deeper was the trust abroad, but we always keep thinking about the trader that escapes. What is the principle? Before we had confiscation for equivalent: the property was confiscated for an equivalent value to the wrongdoing committed; now we have an extended confiscation, so we can confiscate in a presumptive way what can be used to compensate the wrongdoing. This abnormal principle was also introduced with regard to tax checks and was declared non-constitutional, because it is assumed that there is essentially an illegal origin of the goods. You know Osho's cartoon, which tells the guy that he's going to get the money at the ATM: "Ahó, but what about this money you owe us?" What do you need them for? We are going to a state of this kind, which violates any kind of individual freedom. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I believe that freedom is violated, because there is the presumption not only of guilt, but even that the citizen, the entrepreneur, who works is still a thief. I am sure that the fight against evasion must be waged, but that is not the system. In a world that, in my opinion, makes tax evasion with much more sophisticated systems the evaders must be sought where they are. Continuing to pursue societies and small artisans, entrepreneurs and traders we will end up breaking the country permanently, while those who made the money exploiting the crisis will continue to live well and with good incomes. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u20	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u23	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, to be honest, it was not the Group's intention to intervene, but the requests received from the last speech deserve a response that remains to the record, so that it remains in the memory of the Italians of what we are talking about. We think, by rejecting the preliminary question that has been proposed, that the decree-law in question is yet another opportunity to affirm the cultural and social value of taxation, through which the State regulates the good performance of its services. The State entered into a pact with the citizen years ago, approving the taxpayer's statute, and the tax decree goes in that direction, affirming a series of principles: the social and cultural value, the progressiveness of taxation, the treasury in support of universal needs, the fight against tax evasion. Here I would like to reflect on the things that have been said, particularly with regard to the provision of Article 39 of the Decree-Law, which deals with the extended confiscation. Probably you will understand more and better by setting an example. She expressly argues that an alleged rule confiscates property to the small shopkeeper, to the small craftsman who commits a certain type of crime. The crime in question is the record of invoices for non-existent transactions worth more than 100,000 euros. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Is that clear? I do not believe that the small craftsman evades more than 100,000 euros, dear colleague, or exceeds, with other artifices, 200,000 of unrealistic invoices. [[Senator Ferrero's comments.]] What is the small craftsman who can indicate in his accounting records a value of invoices for non-existent transactions of more than 100,000? It means he earns at least 200,000-300,000 euros. I'm having a hard time imagining that. It's called that, it's true, but it's not an enlarged confiscation, it's based on a presumption. I read: "The confiscation of the property of which the sentenced person - then at the end of all proceedings - has availability for a value disproportionate to his own income". This taxpayer, therefore, should record more than 100,000 in its tax returns for non-existent transaction invoices and have a value of goods disproportionate to what it states. Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Not just the bills! D'ARIENZO (PD). My colleague believes that this is a tyrant tax: for me it is an unfair tax, as well as, because honest entrepreneurs, who pay, are the first to be damaged. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Self-employed and honest entrepreneurs are the first to be harmed, because the person who escapes the above figures creates unfair competition that mortifies the abilities of other honest taxpayers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). If you don't know things, you better shut up! D'ARIENZO (PD). That is one of the many reasons - and we will give other reasons in the course of the debate - for rejecting strongly the preliminary ruling dictated by the reasons put forward here. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u24	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Technical Institute for Tourism (Livia Bottardi) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u26	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the general discussion of the tax decree-law linked to the budgetary maneuver, which arrived in the armored Senate, without any possibility of making any improvements or intervening for any change. This way of acting on the part of the Government was also clearly noted in the 6th Commission, where the debate was resolved in a few speeches, but above all in the manifest desire not to try in any way to examine, verify and examine the amendments, choosing from the outset to bring the decree-law to the Assembly without rapporteur, with the aim of directly placing trust. I remember very well the behaviour of colleagues from the PD who protested, Constitution in hand, while occupying the benches of the Government; meanwhile, in the other branch of Parliament they flew to hit the representatives of the Government itself. This year it seems that everything is regular and goes in the best way; indeed, we should be silent and not disturb with our observations and questions. At this point, it is appropriate to pause to comment on what this majority gave birth to in the measure now known as decree taxes and handcuffs, which has succeeded in trying to displease everyone: artisans, traders, small and medium-sized enterprises, employees and pensioners. Last year with the Green Yellow Government a path had begun to reduce taxes, introducing the mini flat tax for the self-employed with turnover up to 65,000 euros, and it was sought the fiscal peace with the balance and excavation of the taxpayers' slopes towards the Revenue Agency. This year you have reversed the direction, blocking what good has been done and introducing new taxes that will put our companies in difficulty and above all reduce consumption, holding back the revival of the economy, especially with the measures of plastic tax and sugar tax. You have called them tax purposes, masking them - or at least you have tried - as if they were ethical initiatives to improve the environment and the culture of food, but this does not correspond to truth. If we want to take action to change wrong behaviour, we must think of solutions, even complicated ones, but that have a social sense and benefit all citizens, consumers and producers. The plastic tax will instead punish all consumer products, resulting in an increase in price and an increase in purchasing power by families. It will also put Italian companies in difficulty compared to foreign competitors. Sugar tax will also bend our companies, taking away their competitiveness on the markets, but knowing that it will not affect the culture of bad nutrition. And again: the reversal of the route on the dry coupon for the rent of the premises used for shops will result in further closures of sales activities in the historical centers, in the cities and in the countries to the advantage of the commercial centers and colossus of the e-commerce like Amazon. With the merger IMU-TASI you will be able to raise another billion, taxing the house and Italian citizens further. With the postponement of tax compensation, to the detriment of Italian companies of course, you will be able to raise another 4 billion. This will result in 4 billion less liquidity than our companies, which will be forced to turn to banks, to which they will have to pay their interest and to which this is not the only gift you make; on the contrary, under the pretext of combating tax evasion, you will reduce the use of cash. This is another penalty all in Italian style, since in other countries, such as Germany and Austria, there are no limitations. The use of electronic money should be encouraged by a reduction in bank fees, as is the case in many countries, and it does not impose - obtorto collo - with great benefit to the banks' agencies. Once it was said that PD gave gifts to the banks, now we see that even the Movimento 5 Stars adapted quickly. The Lega's maneuver was clear: low taxes and simplifications, to pay everyone the right. From the fiscal peace to the stop of the increase of the VAT, which was the plant of the maneuver plate Lega, had already anticipated our undersecretary to the economy, Massimo Bitonci: 10 billion to be allocated to the reduction of the IRPEF paid by pensioners and employees; a dry no to any intervention on the VAT, even of selective type; the start of the fiscal peace 2.0, which this time would have been focused on the possibility for companies and taxpayers to agree in advance with the tax, without paying interest and sanctions, in the cases of inductive or presumptive investigations. This, however, happened this summer, that is, before the thirst for power of PD and Movimento 5 Stars caused the country to fall back into the abyss from which the League was raising it; before the race to grab the seats by the strange couple blocked Italy; before your quarrels degenerated in today's farce. If they had listened to us, we would have gone to the elections, instead you have set up this government and you are already killing yourself, slaps to the right and missing. If the ballot boxes had been honored, as happens simply in the countries in which democracy exists, the League would have carried out a different economic maneuver, with a deficit closer to that of France and with more money for Italian companies and families; instead, for weeks there has been an unreal and surreal situation, Kafkiana I would say. We have the unwise and incompetent government, which, the sooner they leave, the better for the whole country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u28	Senator Saviane, finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u29	Saviane (L-SP-PSd'Az). Now the Italians have understood the August choice of our leader Matteo Salvini: the League had guaranteed a direction towards cutting taxes, but someone did not want this to happen, preferring strange agreements in the name of the country's salvation and responsibility and bringing in fact citizens and ordinary people towards a dangerous precipice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u30	Colleagues, the times have been reported to us by the Groups: I ask you for the utmost respect, because the whole calendar is stuck; otherwise, everything skips.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u31	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to devote a minute to the budget law that we voted on yesterday, because it is closely related to the tax decree we are debating today. In 2022 the current concessions for the so-called bar slot machines, the even more fearsome ones, which work on banknotes in dedicated rooms, and for online gambling, will expire. In the budget law passed to the Senate, the races for the new concessions, which - to understand us - would have been worth from 2022 to 2031, were anticipated by adding to the budget the amounts drawn: 1.8 billion for 250,000 new slot machines, 58,000 VLT and, as a matter of fact, for the points of offer of such devices and online gambling platforms. There has been a turn-off in Parliament to determine what has been done, because, we know, in order to remove a measure from the budget law, it is necessary to find the intended cover. You yourself, Mr President, mentioned this yesterday with regard to the rules on textile and industrial hemp, as I stress, expected by so many producers. This stifled with the electoral program of the Movimento 5 Stars, but also with the comments of the Undersecretary Baretta, who for years has recognized that gambling has slipped from hand, as well as notable members of the Democratic Party, who had signed the appeal of the associations for the protection of citizens. It was really important to see how, in the end, the trend has reversed. There was a blow and the volume of those concessions was reduced (less 65,000 slot machines compared to the existing, less 11,000 VLT and less 20 percent of online gambling concessions) and higher minimum basic auction prices were added to reduce the excessive advantage for dealers. The constraints restricting competition have been removed and they have been placed in the tax havens for multinationals with registered offices. It was even more important to save the municipal regulations and regional laws that, in the absence of adequate national protection, held on their own the impact of a massive offer on the territories. For this I thank the government team, who has been able to give that vigorous blow of wing that we have all hoped for and has been put in place a turning point that will now be supported in the years to come. In the tax decree-law we have other measures on slot machines and VLTs (this time on existing ones). Last year's Dignity Decree provided, for example, for the introduction of the use via health card; other provisions provide to replace the operation by electronic card in the machine with a network that allows to manage the devices remotely, under the most direct control of the State. Well, the process of adopting these innovations is not yet complete and therefore it became necessary to extend the deadline. Another extension concerns sports and non-sports betting, as well as bingo rooms (and we are talking about expired concessions). The invitations to tender have already been prepared and await the opinion of the Council of State: for this reason they are extended, but in the process of converting the decree-law to the House there have been improvements that give greater meaning to this extension, which I had hoped, and an increase of the sums required by the State to those who intend to continue to exercise. We are talking about activities that have already begun, which are growing strongly in the market, if not even worrying, as in the case of betting. It is therefore legitimate and necessary to ask to reduce the excessive advantage for the dealers and above all that this derogation is exploited to adapt the notices, inserting greater guarantees regarding the mafia infiltration, which concern the transparency of the shareholding composition and a greater responsibility of the dealers in the control of their distribution and commercial chain. Today we do not know with due precision and transparency who are the investors, direct or indirect, in the companies concessionaires of services, moreover so delicate. There could be politicians - and this would open serious doubts of conflict of interest - or even mafias, and then another even more disturbing scenario would open up. As an example, the fact that the companies referring to Mr Corallo were able to maintain the concessions is a scandal that was raised by President Canton in anti-Mafia just a few months ago. Moreover, when, with an alarming frequency, the judiciary and the law enforcement forces find out behind illegal dealers behind regular dealers, they perch as a injured party. Here, with this bill, more control and responsibility are laid down for those who fail to comply. On this line I welcome the establishment of a single register of public gambling operators, with precise requirements, the first of which is compulsory registration, both for those who already exercise and for any new operators. And again: for banks and companies that manage payments there is an obligation to block transfers of money to persons who are not in possession of regular securities authorization; up to now they were only obliged to report, but with these measures they are directly denied transfers. A fund is then set up to finance operators of undercover agents, to identify and punish those who allow gambling to children and, in general, the illegal exercise of gambling. It is only a few EUR 100,000 to finance this fund, but it allows for experimentation for the time being, and then more funding can be provided for it. So there are so many virtuous measures in the decree-law to our examination. Let me also say something about how much we might see that it is missing, as an agenda for the future. For example, an increase in the tax levy, which should be harmonised, has been arranged by unifying the different systems that today constitute a jungle that is difficult to extricate and which allow with difficulty an equitative comparison between the fiscal pressure of one sector and another. We should restore taxation, with an organic plan, to have a regulating function of the market, depressing and countering the worrying expansion of the most dangerous sectors, such as VLTs or betting, to the top of the preferences of young minors, or bingo, which are to the detriment of the elderly, or the "gratta and vinci," the form of chance preferred by underage girls. We should therefore use the tax lever, bringing it back for social purposes, which justify the state reserve in this area. This needs to be done with a comprehensive reform programme for the sector, which brings centre of gravity to the State and its public protection functions. For this reason it is necessary to set a precise objective in the control of the collection: if, on the one hand, we look at the impoverishment of families as a worrying indicator, we must think that it is the overall volume of the episodes that gives us the sense of time taken away from the family, the care of children, social relations and also social commitment and - why not - political. We can do this if we include not only economic stakeholders but also civil society in a consultation table to protect these collective interests, which politics sometimes looks at, but which are struggling to listen to. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u33	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Elementary School, 5aA and 5a B, "Collegio San Giuseppe - Istituto De Merode" in Rome, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u34	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the bill linked to the budget law we are debating certainly brings with it important changes to the previous one approved by the Commission, giving it a new look, with many positive aspects, but also with others on which I think it is necessary to make some reflections. Among the positive innovations, proceeding more or less according to the order in which they are set out in the decree-law, we have several rules that, according to a contrast to tax evasion and guarantee of adequate revenues for the state budget, are aimed above all to ensure corresponding services for all citizens. I just list a few of them. In order to prevent the illegal administration of labour, the reverse charge is extended to contracts, i.e. the mechanism that ensures that VAT is actually paid on the transaction, allowing the undertaking to issue the invoice without VAT and making all obligations relating to value added tax fall on the purchaser. In favour of speeding up and simplifying bureaucratic practices, including the control of legality, the rule that allows the Revenue Agency to carry out competitive procedures to recruit new staff is introduced. Moreover, there is the benefit of the tax credit to traders for the business activity for commissions on transactions made with electronic payment instruments, to have in the coming years not only an increase in payments with such instruments, but, directly linked, also an increase in the tax credit accrued by the beneficiary entities. To this is added a strengthening of controls in the matter of games, faculty not only of the staff of the Customs Agency, but also of the State Police, the Arma dei Carabinieri and the Guardia di Finanza, which can draw on the fund established to prevent the game from children and prevent the abusive exercise of the one with money payout. A fund for asbestos victims is also planned, amounting to EUR 10 million for 2019-2020. Then we have the part dedicated to the indifferent needs, in which the provisions of authorization of RFI to an expense of 460 million for 2019, in order to finance investments tied to the improvement of the infrastructural safety. Let's say that the decree in this case also acts as safe conduct, which establishes the operating financial autonomy of RFI, subtracting it from the obligations tailored to public administrations. Interesting is the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, amounting to 670 million euros for 2019, to promote economic efficiency and profitability and sustainability of the agricultural sector, encouraging also innovative technologies, as well as to counter and prevent the damage caused to farms by wildlife, a long-standing issue for which the Regions should have fauna plans able to deal with the various critical issues: I refer, for example, to the wild boar emergency, which has long oppressed many regions of Southern Italy. In order to protect consumers in serious economic crisis in the face of the enforcement procedure covering the debtor's main residence, it is possible to renegotiate the loan in existence not only by the debtor, but also by a relative or relative until the third degree, or by financing a third bank, whose proceeds extinguish the mortgage. Measures are also introduced for local administrations, with the provision of a minimum function allowance for the exercise of the office of mayor and for the presidents of the Province, with a recognition of the work carried out, albeit not sufficient and almost symbolically. With this measure it would appear that, with the increase of the mayor's allowance, that of the deputy mayors and aldermen can also increase over the years. Particular attention is also paid to families with low incomes, with a new social bonus for the provision of the integrated municipal waste management service, with the same criteria used to identify the social bonus for electricity, gas and integrated water service. We intervene in favour of the payment of compensation for overtime services not yet cleared, if carried out for service needs from the members of the police forces and the staff of the fire department, with a total of 180 million euros. To deal with emergencies related to exceptional weather events in the territories of Abruzzo, Basilicata, Calabria, Campania, Emilia, Friuli, Liguria, Marche, Piemonte, Puglia, Sicily, Tuscany and Veneto, the fund for national emergencies is increased by 40 million euros for 2019. The tax decree also introduces the RC car family, so all vehicles owned by the family will be able to benefit from the lowest insurance group owned by the family: this will allow to assure with the most favorable merit class different means of transport and in case of renewal. Important is the provision of incentives for the purchase of devices to prevent the abandonment of children in closed vehicles, with a coverage of 4 million euros for the year 2020 on the fund established at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Tax benefits with reduced VAT to 4% are also provided for the purchase of electric and hybrid motor vehicles used by disabled people. These are just some of the positive notes of the decree-law, which intervened as best possible to balance the contrast to evasion and fraud with the guarantee of facilitations in various areas of activity. The conclusion, however, is reserved, as a lawyer, for some reflections on Article 39, relating to changes in the criminal rules and administrative responsibility of the institutions. Without going into the merits, even for matters of time, I personally believe that, compared to the slogan of the prison for the great evadors, on which Italy Viva expressed its idea, always in a collaborative perspective, serve the guarantees for the companies and workers of this country, before the mannaias of the increase of condemnations and taxes, in an attempt to implement a repressive legal system that approaches very little to the principles of culture and legal civilization imparted with magnificence in our universities and at the basis of our democracy, explained in a manner illuminated by our Constitution. Going back to the possibilities excluded from the decree-law, for example has not introduced or codified a special cause of non-criminality for tax crimes for the hypothesis in which the entrepreneur, because of unforeseen and unforeseeable facts, attributable to the serious economic crisis of our country in the last decade, can invoke as a cause of exclusion of the criminal responsibility the absolute impossibility to fulfill the tax debt, if he demonstrates strictly is the non-deficit to himself of the economic crisis that has suddenly invested the company, and the impossibility to face the liquidity crisis through the use of appropriate measures to be assessed in concrete, even unfavorable for its personal assets. It was possible to take the opportunity to clarify the scope of application, in the event of the fulfilment of the tax debt, the cause of non-perpetuality and the mitigating circumstance with special effect, referred to in Articles 13 and 13-a of Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000, as well as reformed following Legislative Decree No. 158 of 2015, to the proceedings pending on the date of entry into force of the reform, even if the declaration of opening of the debate has already intervened. The relationship between criminal and administrative penalties in the tax field could be clarified, where, as is well known, the Court of Strasbourg admits that there may be a breach of the law of ne bis in idem, when national legislation makes use of the so-called double penalty line in tax matters. However, I appreciated the introduction of Article 12-b, on particular cases of confiscation, to Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000, extending to tax offences the application of Article 240- bis of the penal code, with positive effects for public finance; the introduction paragraph 1-a, instead, sets the dies a quo of the applicability of the aforementioned measure, providing that the same applies only to the behaviours put in place after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of Decree-Law No. 124 of 2019. This fills not only a legal gap that has long been waiting for adequate regulatory solutions. In the context of the proposed incriminatory restyling, it is useful to say that tax offences also tax their operations in the field of organisations. Therefore, for all that said, recognizing, with the albeit found perfectible criticalities, the meticulous work of the Government in this difficult economic phase for our Country and the still more attentive work of the Parliamentary Commissions in order to elaborate a complex and incisive document in several economic sectors that necessarily affect their effects on society (family, administration or enterprise), I consider this a base on which to work better all together in the continuation of the activity of the current governmental group, structuring paths of government of the Country more and more virtuous for the economy of Italy. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u36	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like not to consider as taxes the anti-evasion rules contained in the decree-law that we are talking about: on the contrary, I consider them to be rules that help to reduce taxes, which is the common objective of all. In fact, it seems to me that - as confirmed by the latest surveys that we have read in these hours - there is a certain sensitivity on the part of Italians on this subject: in fact, those who escape the bond of solidarity with the community, in that they avoid payment, contribution and sharing in the services that a State (in this case Italy) provides to its citizens. To enter into the merits of the decree-law, who are the victims of tax evasion? Who are the first to pay for the damage caused by the evaders? Employees and self-employed, as well as honest entrepreneurs, and pensioners: this is the audience that is normally damaged by those who evade taxes, which fortunately, although the figures are gigantic (more than 100 billion euros are spoken of), are not the majority of the entrepreneurs, nor of the self-employed. I would like to clear the field from what is said propagandistically, that is that on this side there is an aversion towards small business and small artisans: it is not true, we are protecting small artisans, entrepreneurs and honest workers, who are first and foremost damaged - as I said in my previous speech - by those who evade taxes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In fact, it is in taxation that the happy union between the State and its citizens arises, because the latter contribute and control the services that the former provides. Is this a difficult relationship? Of course: when there is to pay, there are difficulties of all kinds. We had tried to solve this criticality in recent years, with the statute of the taxpayer, which had a fundamental role, because it offered taxpayers opportunities for intercourse; it is a relationship that was not there before, aimed at allowing to clear all the contradictions and criticalities of the system, which was already identified as oppressive at the time. With this decree-law you do nothing but continue in that direction, rewarding those who pay taxes and are respectful of the rules therefore, having always paid them, they have the need, the need and the right to be protected. Here I come to the merits with some examples: in a civilized country, there is a narrative such as that in Italy, which makes the taxes and the imposition of the State appear as something cannibalistic and evasion as self-defense and a state of necessity (are these the words that are invoked)? In fact, official data show the opposite: in the vast majority of cases - we are talking about figures above at least 80-85 per cent - those who escape do not for reasons of necessity, but for personal enrichment, which is what is hit by this decree-law. It is in line with the decisions that the previous Government had taken in the Ecofin of 9 July last: the Finance Ministers were in Europe and the direction decided in that authoritative assembly, as well as shifting the tax pressure from work (which we did), was to counter tax evasion, strengthening electronic payments, also by lowering the legal limits of cash. It was therefore a decision taken last July by a party which is now in opposition and which was then in the government. We follow up on that decision made by others. To clear the field from the wrong narration that has been made in recent years, is this the maneuver of handcuffs? Let me repeat the example I made earlier, to which I will add another, because it is necessary to explain well to the Italians what it means what we have included in the decree-law. We are talking about the taxpayer who, fraudulently and painfully, inserts invoices for non-existent, therefore false, transactions in his own statements for a value of more than 100,000 euros. For this taxpayer, the penalty is raised from a minimum of four years to a maximum of eight years. If the value of those false invoices, which could not have been issued without his knowledge, exceeds 200,000 euros, there is the confiscation, against which the colleague of Forza Italia had hurled, for the disproportion between the value of the goods and his income. Now, who is that taxpayer or small craftsman who puts in his tax returns a value of false invoices for at least 100,000 euros or, as far as confiscation is concerned, for at least 200,000 euros? I do not think it is a state of necessity, nor to save itself from the oppressive state, that this is done: it is personal enrichment, which is why we also intervene hard, because we can no longer Let's have it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Leone]] They're not small business figures. No, they are figures from workers, entrepreneurs and those who have the possibility, who do not respect the bond with the State. I want to give another example. If an entrepreneur does not use false invoices, but subtracts revenues with other artifices, non-existent credits or incorrect invoices, for values that subtract assets from the tax for a value exceeding 1,5 million euros, I emphasize, the penalty is from three to eight years. Is that a small businessman's figure? Is it from him who is in need or from him who wants to be rich? In my opinion, it's for those who want to get rich. Let us clear the field: those who hide those figures and issue non-existent tax invoices in their tax returns for those figures are not in a state of necessity, but they are much more. In the previous intervention I referred to the fact that the anti-evasion rules are not new taxes, because they do not impose, but regulate processes that should facilitate the proper functioning of taxation and the correct compliance with the rules in our country. It is the case of debt-credit compensation: today it is in force for VAT and we will establish it, with the decree-law, also for income taxes. A principle is set that takes nothing away from anyone. You are entitled to credit only after the presentation of tax declarations, as is the case with VAT: you can compensate debts and credits only after the presentation of tax declarations, because it has been observed that, on several occasions, someone inserts non-existent credits not in their official tax declarations, but in those supposed. Once again, therefore, a taxpayer inserts untrue data to use a credit. We are talking about very high figures. Such a rule does not provoke new impositions, but the respect of those who enter those credits correctly, not in an artificial or even non-existent way, as has been observed. Honest workers - entrepreneurs, self-employed people and anyone with the possibility - have nothing to fear from such rules, because if they respect the rules, they will always respect them, without fear of a tax decree that puts some rules in place to avoid tax evasion. Honest people have nothing to fear from this decree-law. The examples I have made, Mr President, are indicative of how not so many things have been said, and I am not just referring to tax evasion for necessity and self-defense. Slogans are preferred but, as I have tried to do, some examples - the decree contains many more than what has been said - would be enough to show that the further attempt to create alarm in the country cannot correspond to the reality of the facts. In fact, that is not the case, and we will show it with the vote, in order to protect honest taxpayers of whatever economic category they belong to. These, as far as we are concerned, have nothing to fear. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u38	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u39	Mr President, I would say that between yesterday's budget law disasters and today's tax decree disasters the only positive news in the last 24 hours is the wise decision of the President of the Senate to expunge from the text of the budget law the deplorable amendment on cannabis. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At least from this point of view we can rejoice because it is right to point out always and whenever the State must be the bearer of the culture of life and not of the culture of death. I'm starting from what my colleague from the Democratic Party said earlier. I do not believe that this measure is in line with what the previous Government had initiated and with what it had initiated and with what the League wants. The measure, in fact - it is useless to hide behind the political - provides easy handcuffs and cheerful seizures, while the League wanted, wants and will propose flat tax and tax peace. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to recall, in order to return to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, that, if the confiscation follows the conviction, the confiscation is preceded by the seizure and your rule, which is made against the Italians regardless, with a presumption that has no reasonableness, provides, as if it were a crime of mafia association, the preventive seizure for disproportion. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, beyond and before the condemnation, an entrepreneur, perhaps honest, is deprived of economic resources. Let's tell the Italians. We wanted flat tax and fiscal peace because we believe that, after a period of deep economic crisis, a reset is necessary and starting from a zero year. It is necessary to give a second chance to start all those entrepreneurs who, not by their will and not because they have been or are criminals, have been hit by a deep and structural economic crisis. It is necessary to give a second chance and the opportunity to continue to cultivate their entrepreneurial dream to give answers to the territory and employment, without massacre them or "throw them to the sea." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is fiscal peace, with the breaking up, with the balance and the removal and with the reversal of the burden of proof. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As far as we are concerned - this is the difference between us and you - we start from a different assumption: for not Italians are decent people regardless and until proven otherwise, for you, instead, they are criminals and evaders until proven otherwise by them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a profound and cultural difference. We wanted, we want and we will do when we go to the government flat tax because we believe that in the year zero we have to leave with less taxes, less bureaucracy, with justice and with fair and just taxes. We believe that with your aggressive treatment you cannot fight evasion; instead you need a fair taxation, because if the tax is fair and fair they all pay it and it becomes even easier in that case to find the evader. Dear friends of the government, the forest must be cleaned up, but you are making a speech backwards. The flat tax has had a great response between VAT matches up to 65,000 euros. We had already planned and financed the extension of the rate to 20% for VAT consignments up to EUR 100,000 for 2020. Explain to the Italians why you deleted this proposal that was already ready and already had financial coverage. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Why don't you explain to the Italians why you didn't consider the other phase of the flat tax, that is, the one that would have turned to the families, also with the approval of the Department of Finance last July, when we were at the government? We think that, thank God, culturally we are on radically opposite positions, because you confuse the evaders with the entrepreneurs in difficulty. You are an enemy government of the Italians and of those who want to invest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, we believe that the government, a state, must lend its hand to those modern heroes who invest themselves to give answers in terms of employment, growth and technologically advanced proposals. In short, the time has come to debunk the last taboo: those who do business must be honored, supported and should not be fought. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the real starting point and our difference. You have created an absurd system with this tax decree: it increases taxes and penalties. Then, with this Minister of Justice who found you blocking the reform of the trial, explain to the Italians how you intend to pursue in a just and correct way those who escape taxes: justice, cutting down the bureaucracy, stretching out a hand and not beating them with the stick, this is our culture. Italy is loved, Italians are good people, they must be pampered, they must be supported and supported. You make this decree, we will change it because we will raise Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u41	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in this two-day budget maneuver consisting of two documents, on which the Government has placed its trust, I have learned, being very careful, that the budget law consists, as the Undersecretary Castelli said yesterday, in gender equality (important), in the reunification of Imu-Tasi (we were also well before, it is the discovery of hot water), in the modification for 2021 of the tax on the occupation of public soil (important, for charity) and in digital innovation (which is in economic facts, it would have happened and will happen even if the Government does not care about it). We have learned in recent weeks that the financial maneuver in general to Europe is fine (as opposed to last year, when it was hard, on equal terms), because we are friends, as Moscovici says (which after six months from the elections was still in office and as last act came on a trip to Rome). Then we were told, always in economic matters, that the ESM could not be postponed (it seems to me that it has been postponed) and that it could not be changed (perhaps a word has been changed) and the President of the Council has toasted; it will be a serious fact and it is the right of the opposition to say that it will be a serious fact. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] If we had voted against, there would have been severe punishment. Luckily he won Johnson in England and he will make the Brexit: the British still have the straight card. We will be a little more alone, but we will have to ally outside the European Union, otherwise France and Germany will lead us in their own right (just Germany). The tax decree is as if it had never arrived in the Commission: it was essentially not discussed and no amendment had the opportunity to be examined. The opposition - let it be said here - is endowed with a commendable fair play because - as I said last year and on other occasions - in reverse parts we would have seen tremendous scenes in here and probably in front of the Senate there would have been red flags. Dear colleagues, remember that we are living a new season, a difficult season, in which history has gained a crazy speed. There are events that overcome all our possibilities of thinking, unless, in the face of crisis situations, we are quick, we conceive, we have a plan. I hope that the government and the majority will feel the responsibility for the phase that we live and use all the famous common sense that we often mention. I think they should take account of priorities. I say this with a little irony: I think maybe it would have been better if the Chief of Cabinet of the MEF, in the evening of the discussion on the draft budget law, when the accounts were not correct, had been at the Ministry and not to play the piano. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] These are the situations. What are the facts that impact more than we think? The hydrogeological disaster: there are Italian regions that are not yet reachable. True, there are hamlets of some Italian municipalities that, after the snowfalls, after the flood, are not yet reachable. Funds have been allocated; I believe that they are the usual funds that have been transferred from one part to the other for a few years now, because the funds are not in the budget, as we said yesterday, and there is no discretion. The Popular Bank of Bari is a tragedy. We speculate on a million or ten million euros, on any proposal to spend well or to cash well, and then we have to pull out 900 million euros to fix the magagne that derive from that unwise suggestion to the Banca Popolare of Bari to buy Tercas. We've already said about the crises. I then heard yesterday that a majority party is talking about an investment shock plan: EUR 120 billion. If I see it and it's realistic, I'm willing to approve it. I have also heard in recent days always bring up the motorway concessions; but do you realize that, when you make some statements on this matter, you put stock prices into crisis? There are also crimes underlying these statements. Besides, what do you figure out with? With nationalizations? Do we want to go against history? I need to examine some titles, but I don't have time. I am also viscerally opposed to Article 18 of the measure under consideration on the limit of cash, because I theorize, extending the reasoning of my colleague Pepe, that of what you earned, when you paid taxes, you can do whatever you want, in what form you want. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We must defend these principles and I believe that everything else is complications. I conclude, Mr President, with regard to Article 38-b, concerning the payment of the regional car tax through the pagoPA electronic system, with effect from 1 January 2020. As I said in the Commission, I will have to help all my neighbors, who are decent people but who do not have a degree and who have a few more years, to pay the car stamp. As far as Article 39 is concerned, tax evasion is a fixation. Be careful, it is a mine ground, which makes sure that there is no possibility of growth, that you cannot create work and that you live in a state of fiscal police: an induction not to do here but abroad, or to stay on the couch, just choose. It is Christmas, good luck to you to the government and to us opposition, that together we may represent the real majority of the country. But at the end, as Fr. Gianni Baget Bozzo said, which is our reference and which we must remember, we are Italians, live the right to happiness, live the right to optimism - as Berlusconi always teaches us - and Merry Christmas to everyone! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u43	Mr President, today we are discussing the conversion of Decree-Law No 124 of 2019, approved with several amendments by the House of Deputies, which have greatly widened the scope of the original provision. The decree-law, decidedly improved after the parliamentary intervention, introduces a series of measures aimed at combating tax evasion and continues on the path of tax simplification and the use of technology, which has so far proved to be profitable. Article 4 is completely rewritten, preserving the spirit of the norm and at the same time significantly reducing the audience and the obligations of the undertakings concerned. This article aims to counter the practice of companies and cooperatives set up ad hoc for the execution of individual contracts, then conducted towards bankruptcy with the non-payment of withholding taxes for workers. The application of VAT on self-schools is reduced as a result of the ruling of the European Court of Justice, which is why the payment of VAT at 22% will no longer be retroactive and will only cover B and C1 licences. Reintroduction of the possibility of compensating certified and boasted claims on public administration with the tax debts entered in the role also for the years 2019 and 2020. The measures are many, fair and shared, often also by some opposition members in the Commission, and this is pleasing because it indicates substantial sharing on the whole of the measures. Although the subject is not directly related to the decree-law in question, during the brief examination of this act, it has often been felt in this House too to refer to flat tax. Well, there is a need for clarity on the flat tax. What has been applied so far and that so far we have wrongly defined flat tax - or mini- flat tax, in some cases - is nothing more than the flat rate system; a system of tax replacement of direct and indirect taxes born already in the previous legislature to meet small professionals and entrepreneurs; a regime of which I share the principle and the aims and I also share the extension decided last year to companies and professionals with revenues up to 65,000 euros. Shareable, but it's not flat tax. The flat tax in Italy cannot be applied because it is unconstitutional, because it violates the principle of progressiveity to which direct taxation must be inspired, in accordance with Article 53 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a principle that should also be dear to the sovereignists, because it is shared by those good economists they often refer to and according to which, in order to take the path of economic growth again, we need a real redistribution of income and wealth, also with the development of a system of taxation and more progressive transfers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The so-called dripping theory that the increase and concentration of wealth in higher income groups would bring high benefits to the rest of the population is now to be put aside. This is a theory to be put aside because so far it has proved to be a failure. The application of a real flat tax, in addition to being unconstitutional, would change the current distribution of income only in a pejorative way for the poorest groups, so as to penalize even a minimal recovery in consumption. This would further reduce the use of public expenditure, thus also public investment, due to lower overall revenue. A recent study by the Observatory for Italian Public Accounts revealed that the application of flat tax in Italy would produce a strong reduction of the so-called tax residues for all regions, that is, that part of the revenue that the Regions and local authorities use for health services, for business facilities, for the maintenance of roads and schools. In addition, in the face of a total loss of revenue of around €57 billion, around 33 would benefit the richest classes in the North, 12 in the Centre and only 11 in the South. The flat tax, in short, would only increase the inequalities between the poorest and the poorest classes and the inequality between regions of the North and the South. I don't know if that's what the League wants, but at least it's clear. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] President, I was born and raised in Siniscola, in the same country that gave birth to the co-founder, together with Emilio Lussu, of the real Sardo D'Azione Party, the senator lawyer Luigi Oggiano, who sat on these benches between 1948 and 1953: a convinced self-employed, inspired by solid ideals of freedom and equality. This is why it is regrettable to see in some cases, such as the flat tax, to approach the name of the Sardinian Action Party to the ideas and their practical applications in exactly the opposite direction, towards greater inequality and greater inequality, which have already done so much damage to the economy and society and which we have a duty to stop. All the measures we have promoted and carried out so far go in the direction of greater redistribution of income and wealth; also the tax decree that we are going to approve today. We did this because we believe that only real redistribution can bring back economic growth in our country and we will continue to do so because we believe that this is the only way to reverse the course. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u44	The general debate is closed. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 1638 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 124 of 26 October 2019 on urgent provisions in the field of taxation and for indisputable requirements, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u46	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 124, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I suspend the sitting, having already planned the organisation of the proceedings, which will resume at 2 p.m. with the debate on confidence, to follow the explanations of vote and the final vote with relative call. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.06 a.m. and resumed at 2.04 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a ghost decree in a ghost Chamber. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say ghost decree because we in the Commission have not worked and we do not work in this House because the question of trust is being raised. This, unfortunately, is not an easy pun: this is the reality, sad confirmation of a country that you are sending to collapse and an Executive that is doing everything and more to upset the rules of common sense first and then democracy. We are here today to talk about a decree-law that, in the Commission, we all know, has not been practically touched or worked, all because of you: you have not given us time. You have not listened to us and you have not allowed us to put our hands on an instrument of democracy which, on the other hand, would have deserved all the attention of the case. So, after referrals, changes and interruptions today we arrived "fruity," let me say; yes, fruity, but without having eaten neither the first, nor the second, nor the dessert. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The decree of shame arrived too late, arrived armored, served. There is no time to make changes: it is impossible to examine the text. This, in essence, is the gift that the Democratic Party, the Movimento 5 Stars and Italy Viva make under the tree to the Italians: an example of forcing the rules of the game and a senseless test of strength by the majority that, unfortunately, does not allow for anything good. On the other hand, with plastic tax, sugar tax, narrow on the company cars and those who have more of them put, among ads, counter-announcements, remodulations, retromarce and referrals you can no longer understand anything. Or rather, one thing has long been clear to all Italians and not only to those who vote and stand in favour of the center-right: this is the Government of quarrels, taxes, tax and bureaucratic complications, which will be remembered in the years to come as the Executive born against the will of the people, in the corridors of the palace. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] An Executive that, within a few months of its establishment, has managed to bring families, young people, artisans, traders and small and medium-sized enterprises to their knees, or the backbone of the country. I then open a parenthesis: you have managed to put in trouble also the only multinational that has come to Italy to invest in Taranto; you have let it escape and instead you have not done the right battle to the multinationals that bill a lot in Italy, but they pay few taxes in our country. Congratulations on that, too. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the Commission which, in just a few months of existence, has managed to slap those who work and those who pay taxes, who are already among the highest in Europe and the world and to whom you now add others in an unholy way. In addition, this is the Commission which wanted to simplify bureaucracy in words, but which in fact made it even more intricate; yes, because an Executive without substance and ideas for future generations like yours could only try to seal its existence by putting new taxes on the plate of the balance. The Democratic Party, the Movimento 5 Stars and Italy Viva will divide this cup in the years to come: a stain that you will hardly be able to erase. Or not, you could stay in the history of Italians for deductions for dogs and cats; yes, perhaps you will be remembered precisely for this passage that I would call epochal and that is a bit the emblem of your continuous doing and undoing, of the inability to listen to the real needs of the country. Still today, however, waiting for new elections that will come soon or later because that is what the majority of the country demands, our effort is to limit the damage of a measure on which we can only confirm the bad judgment expressed from the beginning. Numerous are the critical profiles in this assault to the diligence, where all have asked and very few have received. I quote immediately one who is going unnoticed, capable of overthrowing in a single blow what all Italians invoke, that is, a greater degree of security in their homes, in their cities and in their own country. In the provision relating to the fight against gambling, thanks to you, the prediction of the use of undercover agents, if not accompanied by a corresponding increase in organic plants, will have a negative impact on the availability of personnel for the control of the territory: an autogol, in our opinion, towards the real country, which instead asks for greater guarantees of safety. For this reason, and not only for this reason, it is all fiscal the parliamentary battle of the League-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action. What you have achieved is a decree full of tax and bureaucratic complications, the exact opposite of what the Italians asked. Tax evasion, which exists, is enormous and must be combated, not so, but reducing taxes and simplifying the tax system, a very complicated jungle, among the most complicated in the world. Thanks to the mini-flat tax, last year we allowed many young people - and not only - to undertake an activity, paying only 5% for the five years to come. You have stated that you want to strike at the escape, but the truth is that you are fond of families, young people, the elderly, businesses and not the great evadors, who are the real problem of this country. You blame whoever doesn't have something to do with it and wink at the big brands, maybe for the fear of losing the chair. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thus - for example - there are 4 billion less liquidity for businesses and professionals, who will have to turn to banks, of course paying interest. You are at the side of the banks and not of the employees or pensioners, and I am, of course, addressing above all the friends of the PD, who have always been close to the banks and not to the people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Step aside and allow the Italians to vote. The country needs politicians and administrators who believe in its richness, potentiality, beauty and fragility. Last year we gave EUR 4 billion to the municipalities so that they could put their hands on a series of public works and infrastructure that could improve the lives of citizens; we gave EUR 250 million for interventions on the high schools and the roads of the Provinces. On the other hand, you did not give anything (or little) even to the flood victims, just crumbs: 40 million to be divided in 10 regions, against the 500 million we had given last year. Why don't you listen to us? Why don't you listen to the cry of pain coming from the real country? Fortunately, thanks to our work, especially in the Chamber of Deputies - since we did not touch the ball in the Senate - the damage caused by the decree-law in question has been partially limited. We were able to intervene on the unblocking of the recruitment of doctors and nurses, on the arrears of fire department and police and much more. Finally, but not last in importance, I quote another victory of the League: we never forget that in this country we have to simplify and this has led to the expiry of the so-called monthly to quarterly extrameter. It is, therefore, good news for thousands of Italians and holders of VAT numbers who issue or receive invoices from and to foreign countries and who, thanks to us, can now communicate the data of cross-border transactions in the supply of goods or services every ninety days instead of every thirty days. This means simplifying: the exact opposite of the road you have taken. I would like to dedicate the last step of my speech to the incoherence of our former allies, because - ladies and gentlemen, grills - those who are wounded in the day, who are lost in the day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Allow me to tell you. Moreover, this message is clear to you from the Italians at every election round - I am referring to the last ones - in which they are confirming your inadequacy. The time has ended when you have been able to enchant a part of the people. But I would like to be even more clear and intellectually honest with you: I do not deny what we have done good with you of the Movimento 5 Stars, we have been to the Government together. I do not deny everything, but for this very reason the level of indifference towards you by the Italian people is even more marked today. Dear fellow Members, doubts about your real political abilities have become so many and so many to ask you, like the Democratic Party and Italy Viva, to take a step back for the good of the country; a step back that, if you do not spontaneously leverage on that little 'dignity and sense of duty that should have remained, you will still be forced to do at the will of the Italian people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u48	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u49	Mr President, it is embarrassing to speak in this very crowded House, and it is not easy with all my eyes on it, but I will try to make an additional effort and not to get excited by all those who are interested in the debate on the tax issue. I am referring in particular to the majority that supports this Government and that has raised the question of trust: out of 166 majority senators, about twenty will be present in this debate. They probably find it uninteresting to hear what those who differ from them have to say; and the responsibilities are obviously different between the majority and the minority. Having said that, we are today debating - I think at this point also quite unnecessarily, if not for those who will have the courtesy to listen to us - a fact that happens only in Italy, namely the tax decree. Every year Italy makes the tax decree; every year the Italian taxpayers wait for the tax decree, as the children wait for the gifts not of Santa Claus, but of the Befana, the one that brings the coal to those who have been evil. But the Italians didn't think it was bad. Every year those who do business in this country never know how and how much they will have to pay taxes the following year; they never know how much they will be able to deduct, how much they will deduct; how much the cost of their employees will be; how much the cost of business cars (which is a topic); they do not know how they will have to pay their employees and they do not even know what will happen, despite the rules - I have already said in the debate on the budget law - to the obligations they have at their expense, because sometimes not only politics, but also bureaucracy is active, at ministerial level and not only, and produces guidelines or internal regulations, which are then obviously adopted without passing through the legislative system, which seems important to me, but that someone probably considers superfluous. So the bureaucracy goes to traders, entrepreneurs, hoteliers, beaches: it goes to all those who keep this nation standing through small and medium-sized enterprises and asks for additional requirements to try to make cash. As always happens at the end of the year, during the period from 20 November to 20 December, there is the terror of going to the mailbox and opening it, because there is certainly an order for payment or of the Agency of income or of the City of residence. Today the worry is less: in case of rain, you don't have to get to the mailbox, but you can open the PEC directly from home and in this way you can ruin the day or the following days, if you write that tomorrow you have to give 20,000, 30,000, 50,000, 70,000 or 80,000 euros; look to exceed the threshold of 100,000 euros, because - as you know - you go to jail. The subject of jail is something that I will soon resume; among other things - as you know - I know him quite well. Also for next year, how much can we spend? How much money can we put in our pockets the morning before we leave the house? I asked this question to Mr Dal Mas, who has not yet been able to answer me. The reduction of cash is in fact at the door, because we have in mind, indeed you have in mind that, reducing the cash, we solve the issues. No: the news that I give you today and that I already gave you a few days ago is that if you tighten the tax burden and reduce the cash, it will increase the black, increase the transactions not affected by the tax and therefore increase the amount of money outside the channels where it should travel. I'm surprised you can't understand that. For God's sake, I always try to interpret someone else's point of view, trying to figure out if it's better than mine. But you have a different view of the world. And speaking of the world, I remember that, thanks to an activity I have abroad, I listen to what Italians who live abroad say when they talk about Italians. How do they see us from outside? Why can't we sell the state's assets? Why can't we get international investment funds involved? Why do our businesses fall in value? Why are real estate not appreciated, but depreciated? Why is the economy not attractive? Why? But would you come to a state that changes tax decrees every year and has a tax burden of 64.6 percent? Overall, between direct and indirect taxes, this is the value (although you can't, of course, work until October for the State). And if, by any chance, you're wrong, you go straight to jail like a missile, unlike the one who rapes and steals in the apartments. Even though we passed a law on self-defense, he's going to jail. If by chance, in self-defense, you dare to safeguard yourself, your family and your employees, you go straight to jail like a missile. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Another equally important issue is the reversal of the burden of proof, which is in place in all countries of the world. Who invests from outside, looking at Italy, notes that, despite the issuance of the electronic invoice, the payment of taxes and the presentation of the tax code in pharmacy - have the most beautiful tax requirements in the world - the Revenue Agency can tell you to pay a certain amount of money following an inductive verification made on its turnover. And if you try to protest, they ask you to bring the related documents. But what does it mean to bring the documents? It is you who have to prove that a person has escaped taxes, and not the latter to you who did not. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But where do we live? And then we agree on the sum of EUR 78,000 - for example - to be given and the issue is closed here at EUR 50,000. No, I don't give 50,000 euros. At 30,000 it closes? Where are we? Are we at the cow market? And if by chance you refuse to pay and appeal, you must pay a third of the due fee in order to proceed; otherwise the appeal is not accepted. This is a shame! It is a shame that it is a couple - as I have already said in the debate on the budget maneuver and as I repeat today - with the reason why such rules are enacted, supported and carried out also in this budget law and in the tax decree under consideration: they are suggested - as a member of the Democratic Party in the Commission of which I am a member - by the Financial Guard, the Revenue Agency and the Court of Auditors. Those who should control and recover 109 billion of evasion also propose laws to kill Italian companies. It's a shame! A shame! The Taxpayer's Statute, approved on 27 July 2000 by Law No 212, which states that nothing must be produced by the control bodies of the State, but it is the latter that is required to make the assessment, has remained a waste of paper. Nobody offends, but I think this is necessary. [[Senator Mallegni is wearing a pair of handcuffs. Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] They put them on my wrists on January 31, 2006.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u50	Senator Mallegni, you're forcing me to take your word for it. I ask the assistants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u51	[[Senator Mallegni's microphone automatically switches off.]] AIROLA (M5S). He's ready to be taken away! MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Wait a minute, Mr. President! Please let me finish. (Senator Mallegni removes the cuffs.) DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). You have to finish, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency does not believe that it needs any suggestions. Senator Mallegni, you can finish your speech, but I remind you that you were just under a minute away. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the handcuffs I just put on my wrists are made of plastic and are used by children to play guards and thieves. Those who put on the wrists of honest people and well, like those who speak to you, are made of stainless steel and - as in my case - remain connected not for the forty days of jail or the one hundred and twenty of house arrests, but for eleven years of trials, and involve the expense of money of families - in my case a local administrator - paid by the local communities. And all this happens because there are people - I say it with respect - like you who continue to approve regulations of this kind that discourage those who want to invest in our country and terrorize the good people who make the gross domestic product and support the economy. Think about it very well. We have done so and we will vote against it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Many congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to remind Senator Mallegni that, when he was in the government, his political strength did not resolve the issues he is complaining about today and says that it is not going well. Of course, there are many issues that should be improved, but let me say that, when you were in the government, you didn't change the cards on the table. President, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago, when I spoke in this House during the general debate on the adoption of the budget law, I stressed the difference in the substance and method of this majority, compared to the one that preceded it, which it noted in the course of the work, and that I feel I can reiterate today in relation to the measure that we are discussing and we are preparing to vote on, which can only be read in conjunction with the budget law on which this House, just yesterday, expressed itself. Well, if with the budget law we wanted to show that giving a new government to the country for us means first of all to mark a profound change from the past, with this decree-law it is in some way almost embarrassing the difference between before and after. Mr President, I would like to remind you, through you, of some opposition colleagues who, I am sure, would do well to miss some healthy populism and some instrumental criticism of this measure. I would like to remind you that, while we worked hard on a budget law that could first prevent tax increases and at the same time put at the centre a new idea of the country by unlocking investments in infrastructure, culture, environment, and giving priority to rights, a new social and environmental plan, we also concerned ourselves with making tax fairer, fairer and simpler. It is all too easy, even for an outside observer and little familiar with matter, to understand the difference between the first and the next. A year ago this same Parliament converted into law a decree that said yes to the condones. After a year, Parliament itself approves measures which make the tax fairer and simpler, while at the same time supporting the taxpayer's citizen. When the League was in government, this House destroyed and violated any principle of justice and fiscal and, therefore, social equity. We're reversing course today. We cannot think, in fact, of building a more just country if we let go of the idea that, if you do not pay taxes, sooner or later comes the government on duty to turn a blind eye. This would be deeply unfair to those many citizens who contribute to public spending, respecting the times and methods provided for by the law and who must be thanked for the correctness with which they place themselves vis-à-vis the Italian tax. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] The tax decree is closely linked to a budget maneuver in front of which someone thought well to escape, avoiding to assume their responsibilities after having wasted time and money in a single year to the Government. We, on the other hand, have once again assumed the task and responsibility of preventing this country from becoming submerged by taxes and public spending in a new recessionary spiral. I'm not sure. I'm sorry, I'm sure... RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). You said it right! Beginnings (IV-PSI). ...that even among the many colleagues of opposition there is the awareness of how difficult it was to work on these two measures with the enormous burden left by those who, between one spread of Nutella and the other, were distracting Italy with its propaganda. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Analphabeta! Beginnings (IV-PSI). But we are another thing, Mr President. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u53	Colleagues, please, you have had the opportunity to speak with vibrant arguments. Now let the colleague continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u54	Beginnings (IV-PSI). We are those who, with seriousness and responsibility, have managed, during the years of our Government, to reduce the tax pressure. We are the ones who, with e-invoicing, have recovered billions of tax evasion. We are the ones who have worked for the promotion of electronic payments and with consistency, with this measure, we continue our work. We are also those who, in the budget law passed yesterday, insisted that the total tax mount be reduced on operations mainly related to sugar tax and plastic tax. A year ago the spread was at 300 basis points, today it is at 170, indeed at 156 this morning. It has halved, in fact, demonstrating the dividend of credibility that this Government enjoys, also thanks to the great period of reforms launched by previous governments. It is curious to hear from colleagues in the League appeal to reduce the tax burden, when we know very well that in the last twenty years, the tax burden has never fallen when the League has been to the Government. During the three Berlusconi governments, the tax burden has increased. Let's go see the data of the reports, of the budget laws, of the accounts, the data of the Istat: this is a certifiable measure. RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). What are you talking about? Beginnings (IV-PSI). You can complain as much as you want, but during the years in which the League was in government, the tax burden in this country has always increased... [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). What is the tax burden? Do you know that? Beginnings (IV-PSI). Unlike what happened when we were in the government. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u55	In general discussion there are no other members to speak for the League Group. We are speaking, even harshly, in response when the word is given, otherwise we are addressing the Presidency, which seeks to give everyone equal dignity of intervention. Please, Senator Begin, finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u56	Beginnings (IV-PSI). In conclusion, the measure contains a number of measures which go in the direction I mentioned earlier and which I summarized in relation to the steps we have taken so far. The consistency of the fiscal bill-decree measure lies in the will of the majority and the government to proceed - on the one hand - on the road of reducing the tax burden and - on the other hand - to recover the evasion mainly through electronic instruments, saying stop to the season of the condones as we believe that it is detrimental to the dignity of both the State and the taxpayer citizen. For all these reasons I voted in favour of the confidence of the Italian Group Viva-PSI on the measure under discussion. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u57	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the key elements of the tax decree-law that we are called upon to examine today is that of preventing and combating the great tax evasion; an issue on which so much rhetoric has been made for years without corresponding the facts, those that citizens expect as a result of our work. Yet, we are discussing a topic on which well-being, fairness and social cohesion are at stake in our country. In other words, either you change your way or you continue to instill anger, individualism and social tension among citizens. And then we can say that now you change, because this is what the Movimento 5 Stars wants to do through the tax decree under consideration. The reason why so far few results have been achieved is soon said: it has never been intended to adequately punish the great evaders, who make themselves responsible every year for the vast majority of all the tax evasion in Italy. It is money stolen from honest citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's the citizens who pay their taxes. Let us think of the 3.2 million civil servants, the small and medium-sized enterprises with a sky-high tax burden. This is the great escape in our country: let's tell ourselves how things are and avoid lexical artifices, which only serve to pretend to change everything to never change anything. Let us remember the numbers we are talking about: more than EUR 110 billion each year removed from essential public services and tax cuts. In Italy, those who pay taxes are heavily reduced and pay up to 70 percent of their turnover. Those who pay their taxes donate blood on behalf of the tax authorities. The great evaders are the real enemies of artisans, traders, shopkeepers, Italian professionals, who every day sweat the proverbial seven shirts to guarantee themselves and their family a decent income. That is why we have started to reduce VAT taxes, with last year's manoeuvre, and we are continuing today by reducing them to employees, with the reform of the tax wedge. Colleagues, citizens, with the tax decree that we are about to approve we intend to strike those who hide, often abroad, in some tax paradise, almost all the money that is stolen from our community, so as to allocate the proceeds to a real and full tax relief towards those who, instead, are honest and pay taxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the political choice of the Count-bis Government and the 5 Star Movement, different from that of the previous Governments that we have seen making strong with the weak and weak with the strong today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Cultural change is necessary. Do you remember the Panama Papers scandal? 11.5 million documents emerged from a journalistic survey involving 140 state and political men, 550 banks and 214 offshore companies. Among the cheaters who designed tricks to avoid paying taxes were hundreds of Italians or residents in Italy. Three years after the discovery of that scandal, the Italian tax had managed to recover about 30 million euros of stolen taxes. In total, more than $1.2 billion had been recovered on four continents. Here are the impressive numbers of the great tax evasion. But many also recall the famous case of the "Falciani list," containing 7.499 Italians, the secret list of the Geneva branch of the Swiss bank HSBC, with well-known faces of the world of economy, finance, entertainment and culture that had deposited 7 billion and 452 million dollars. Transferring money to Switzerland in itself is not a crime, but subsequent checks have established that there was a mountain of undeclared income within that 7 and a half billion. A lot of the Finance Guard couldn't question it because of a maxi pardon. Guess who did the big pardon? The Berlusconi-Tremonti government, of course. I challenge anyone to argue that subtracting more than EUR 100,000 from tax is a small responsibility, whether it is a survival escape or a small craftsman, as I have heard in this House today from representatives of Forza Italia. It's stealing, though, colleagues. It's a state theft against the entire community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this tax decree those who err and steal must go to prison, because to date only 0.4 percent of the prison population is in prison for tax evasion. Those who commit the crime of fraudulent declaration by using invoices for non-existent transactions, with at least 100,000 euros of tax evasion, will suffer an exemplary penalty, ranging from a minimum of four to a maximum of eight years. The extent of this penalty will actually open the doors of the prison to those who will be condemned definitively. The penalties are almost doubled for those who make an unfaithful declaration. The imprisonment ranges from two to four years and six months in case of tax evasion for an amount exceeding 100,000 euros. The prison years are increasing for those who fail to declare their incomes completely: now they take a sentence from one to five years of detention. We introduce the institution of the enlarged confiscation, i.e. the confiscation of goods whose lawful origin cannot be justified and whose value is disproportionate to the declared income, but only in the case of the use and issue of false invoices with evasion of more than 200,000 euros, and in the case of fraudulent declaration through other artifices if the tax evaded exceeds 100,000 euros and fraudulent subtraction to the payment of taxes. We also hit the false compensation, i.e. those who try to compensate with the tax credits with the non-existent public administration. At the same time, we certainly simplify life for the honest entrepreneur, who is entitled to compensation. It is unacceptable that a company should be able to go into liquidity crisis because, after making the tax payments correctly, it does not receive at the same speed the money that is owed to it by the public administration. However, we allow those who regret having escaped to give back their dues to the State. We have therefore extended the industrious repentance to those who return what was due to the Erary. Mr President, I should like to end by recalling Article 53 of the Constitution that everyone - and I stress this forcefully - has a duty to contribute to public expenditure and, therefore, they have a duty to pay taxes, but certainly in proportion to their incomes. It follows that those who earn more, the more they have to pay! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u59	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u62	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, yesterday in this House there was the final vote on the budget law. Today we are dealing with an important measure for the same maneuver, and not only for the tax and non-tax provisions contained in it, but more specifically for the allocation of sums deriving from higher revenue provided for in the Decree-Law on two funds (Fund for the reduction of the tax burden and Fund for the updating of multi-annual contributions), as a result of Article 59 of the measure under consideration. As the latter provisions have been repealed by Article 99 (3) of the Budget Act for 2020, the same amounts (more than 5 billion for 2020 and more than 4 billion in 2021-2022) come as means of coverage within the financial framework of the Budget Law for 2020. The text before us is very different from that published in the Official Journal on 26 October, and it has been greatly improved by the parliamentary work of our fellow Members, both by majority and by opposition. First of all, it should be noted that there are no new taxes in this tax decree-law. The measure deals with a fundamental issue for our country: the fight against tax evasion, an issue that the President of the Republic himself has recently addressed. The same report on the unobserved economy and on tax and contribution evasion, attached to the Update Note to the DEF last September, calculates - for the period 2014-2016 - in 110 billion euros the missed revenue on average per year due to tax and contribution evasion, of which approximately 98 billion for tax evasion and about 12 billion for contributory evasion. The tax most evasive is VAT, with an average annual loss of revenue - over the period 2012-2016 - of 36 billion euros; in the second place the IRPEF, then IRES and IRAP. In comparison with other European countries, Italy has the highest per capita evasion. We must consider this figure; an estimated average of 3,156 euros, while France and Germany have a per capita evasion of about half, 1,739 and 1,529 respectively. How many things then - we should ask ourselves - we could do with 50 billion more taxes regularly paid. We could improve our public policy on all fronts and start a fair reduction in the tax burden, especially for the social sectors with the lowest incomes and the middle classes. These European data are the result of the report on financial offences, tax evasion and avoidance, approved by the European Parliament on 26 March. The report has resulted in a number of recommendations to the Member States. We believe that there should be a serious continuous, undeclared and unproclaimed struggle every day, and we believe that there is a series of specific and precise interventions in this measure that goes in this direction; it goes in the direction of trying to reduce the enormous mass of money that is stolen every year not from the coffers of the State, understood as an abstract subject, but actually from social spending, the development of the economy and the national health system. There are no harassments, but they want to affect the great escape. The measure therefore affects this with Article 39 relating to amendments to the criminal rules in tax matters and to the administrative liability of the institutions. The executive's will to strengthen the fight against evasion with harsher penalties for the great evaders is confirmed. We therefore see the lowering of the criminality thresholds for tax offences: in fact, instruments are introduced to strengthen and rationalise the sanctioning response that the legal order foreshadows in relation to tax offences; in particular, action is taken on the sanctioning apparatus properly criminal with amendments to Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000, with a tightening of the main penalties and a reduction of the thresholds of criminal importance of tax violations. The new sanctioning regime provides for the offence of unfaithful declaration the sentence from two to four years and six months instead of from one to three years; they do not give rise to punishable facts the assessments considered as a whole differ to less than 10% of the correct ones. The penalty shall be set from two to five years in the case of failure to make a declaration. Moreover, it extends to the most serious tax offences, and at the same time characterized by the overcoming of significant thresholds of 100,000 euros of tax evaded, or depending on the structure of the right of income removed from tax, a particularly important instrument of contrast constituted by the so-called extended confiscation or confiscation due to disproportionate, resulting in the possibility of seizure functional to the same. On this institution in the general discussion I heard unfounded or at least unsatisfying alarm calls from colleagues in the opposition and perhaps it is worth deepening the concrete content of the changes made to the current discipline. It is worth remembering that Article 12-a of Legislative Decree No. 74 of 2000 provides for mandatory criminal confiscation even for equivalent in the cases provided for there. The novelty of the decree-law, which today we are about to approve with the confidence placed by the Government, is that the new article 12-b provides, in case of conviction or plea of the penalty for some crimes in the matter of VAT income tax, the application of the extended confiscation, referred to in Article 240- bis of the penal code; therefore the possibility of confiscating money, goods or other utility, of which the condemned cannot justify the origin and of which, even for interposed natural or legal person, turns out to be holder or have the availability in any capacity in disproportionate value to his own income. In the extended confiscation, which finds its origin in the fight against organized crime, the connection of pertinence or continence between the res kidnapped and the crime to attack instead the whole unjustified wealth and considered the result of the illicit accumulation under a legal presumption that - as we will see - can still be overcome. Currently the instrument of extended confiscation is foreseen in a series of almost innumerable crimes of our penal code from the recipe for money laundering, the kidnapping of persons, mafia crimes, usury, reclaiming, drug trafficking offences. The novelty of this measure introduced in tax offences must therefore be brought back to a much-tested legal consideration in a very long series of criminal cases already in existence today. It is worth remembering that for the case law, the extended confiscation is based on an unmistakable political choice, a jurisoff presumption, which provides for the contrary proof, of unlawful accumulation, in the sense that the ablation measure affects all assets of economic value not proportionate to the income or economic activity of the sentenced person. Let us repeat the condemned: it is an ablative, certainly very incisive measure that intervenes only to the outcome of a definitive condemnation. Therefore, those who really care about the principles would guarantee in a way that was not "peely," can only appreciate these remarks that I am trying to make to the House. (14.51) (Follow BUCCARELLA). The Court of Cassation affirmed - with regard to the scope of the applicability of the ablative measure - that, for the purpose of the preventive seizure of confiscable property, it is necessary to ascertain, as regards fumus commissioni delicti, the abstract feasibility, in the fact attributed to the suspect, of one of the offences indicated therein and, as regards the periculum in mora, the presence of serious indications of existence of the same conditions which legitimize the confiscation, both as regards the disproportion of the value of the property with respect to the income or economic activities of the person, and as regards the non-justification of the lawful origin of the goods themselves. I will skip the list of specific cases in which this instrument will be applicable from next year, always in the case of facts of crime definitively established for tax values of the order of several hundreds of thousands of euros. This should not, therefore, alarm the typical, average, more or less honest taxpayer, who, however, even if he can commit small tax illegitimacy, can hardly move to reach these figures. It is worth remembering that several changes have been made in the House to be healthy, with a view to guaranteeing and containing the certainly powerful effectiveness of the instrument. I mean that the operation of confiscation has been excluded for cases of unfaithful declaration, of failure to declare the taxpayer when the tax evaded is higher than 100,000 euros and so on; the sacred principle of non-retroactivity has been established. Evidently, from 1 January onwards, anyone and tax advisors of any kind, who may be doing their business for the unfair benefit of companies, will be well aware or will have to take into account that there is this powerful tool, which will certainly discourage evasive phenomena. There is the non-penalty provided for by an active repentance, even in some cases even if the criminal judgment is already incardinated before the declaration of opening of the debate. I regret that I do not have time to continue my speech, because I would have liked to stress the importance of Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which aims to combat the precariousness and fraudulent use of the system of rules. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please come to an end. You've already spent your time. BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, I was confident that the fact that we were able to buy a lot of time in the general debate would allow the Presidency a minimum... President. In fact, it's already a minute longer than the assigned time. You're welcome, Senator. BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Thank you, President. I recall Article 4 on procurement and discouragement of the use of fictitious cooperatives. All this falls with today's judicial chronicle: in the newspapers many of you will have read the news of a seizure of about 120 million euros to an entrepreneur with fictional residence in Switzerland but resident in Italy. For widely favorable assessments of the overall content of Decree-Law No. 124 of 2019, after the changes made by the House, I announce the favorable vote, myself and the members of the Mixed Group who share this analysis, to the confidence demanded by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u65	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, unfortunately, here in the Senate, we are only commenting on the work of our colleagues in the House on a measure that would have been useful and important to deepen and also improve. I say this because the tax measures are the ones that have the most immediate impact on the lives of taxpayers and therefore constitute the figure of the relationship between citizens and the state. The measure before us contains positive elements but also others on which we have a great deal of concern. The main one is the cash-use grip, whose use limit from July will rise to 2,000 euros to fall to 1,000 in 2022. Exactly as with the tax on sugary products, I think there is an issue that grabs the protection of individual choices. Cash is a form of freedom: it represents the possibility of not having to tell anyone what you buy, how everyone manages their money. Objectives of general interest such as the protection of public health and the fight against tax evasion must be pursued by finding a fair balance, without affecting, that is, the sphere of personal freedoms, otherwise the risk, especially in a society where privacy is now threatened by the pervasiveness of computer tools, is to slowly build the watchful state, which knows everything about everyone and therefore could use this information against its citizens. It is therefore a theme of fundamental and fundamental principles, of guarantee and protection of individuals. That is why we do not agree with this measure, because there are still other instruments to combat tax evasion. At the same time, this measure is the other side of the budget law and therefore has the same limits but also the same advantages. It aims to tidy up a number of situations, it introduces some positive elements from the point of view of simplification but it is far from that shock that would serve our system to get on the path of economic recovery. Among the positive rules of the measure there is certainly the one that allocates resources for fire department and police forces; also the rules on insurance with the introduction of the family principle for the application of the most favorable merit class for several vehicles, the interventions on bank loans for access to credit in the repurchase of the first house to those who could not pay loans in the past, but also the reduction of VAT for women's hygiene products and the extension of sanctions on anti-abandonment devices for child seats. As far as tax evasion is concerned, it is good that during the debate in the House the penalties for non-fraudulent conduct have been reduced, with the exclusion of the extended confiscation and the application of the cause of non-criminality also for fraudulent conduct in the case of full payment of tax debt. Good also the cancellation of sanctions on the POS. In fact, even in this case, we must not forget that in some territories, especially in mountain areas, there is an objective problem that is the result of digital divides. On the other hand, I am struck by the lottery of the receipts and not by the extension of the entry into force. It is particularly true that a State which, on the one hand, rightly restricts the game, as has also been done with this measure, on the other hand implicitly vindicates its social acceptability. Ludopathy is a dramatic problem that must be fought without hypocrisies, discouraging people from playing and not using it almost as a pretext for cashing out. It is the same criticism that we have made of the plastic tax: conversion is right provided that it is sustainable and therefore cannot and must not become an excuse for cashing out. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that this measure certainly contains some positive elements. There are still others that I have not mentioned, such as the refinancing of the fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, that for the victims of asbestos and 8 per thousand for school construction, but these measures alone do not indicate a change of course. If anything, they are as good as the beginning of a path on the fronts of bureaucratic simplification, modernisation of the system and the fight against tax evasion. As I said yesterday, today's priority was to clear up the accounts in order to prevent stagnation from moving to recession. It is an objective that, with the sterilization of safeguard clauses, will probably be achieved, but now we need to give a radical change of pace, a shock that will boost growth and build a new model of development. Since this measure is closely linked to the budget law, to which we have given our confidence, I announce the vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomouss of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Biti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u68	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, representative of the Government, I begin immediately with a more strictly political consideration. I am sorry, like the Senate, that I could not make a significant contribution to this measure, the importance of which is known to all. After the Update Note to the DEF, the tax decree-law and the budget law represent the first economic policy measures on which a parliamentary majority and a new government compare and there was a true comparison, which significantly modified the text of the decree-law approved by the Government. There was in fact a substantial difference compared to the logic that supervised the drafting of the fiscal law of 2019, in which there were two measures: that on the income of citizenship, wanted and supported by the 5 Star Movement, and that on quota 100, wanted and supported by the League. Everyone had their own flag withered, but there was no overall view, so much so that, in the last budget law, for each article it could be established without problems which of the two forces was the author of it. The tax decree is proof of overcoming this logic. There was a willingness to try to sum up the different positions of the political forces that support the majority: this did not always produce results that as Italy Viva we shared. There were also moments of intense dialectical confrontation, but there was a qualitative leap that saw the introduction of a new method. For this reason, I repeat, I am sorry that I did not make a more significant contribution as a Senate, which was absolutely possible with the budget law. The tax decree, as has also been mentioned during the general discussion by several colleagues, is therefore closely linked to the budget law. Its first mission was to avoid the adoption of safeguard clauses, i.e. VAT and excise duties (more than 23 billion euros), which would have represented the highest increase in fiscal pressure in republican history. This is precisely because in many statements by opposition representatives, particularly the League, made both yesterday in the Chamber and reported in the newspapers, there was an increase in the tax burden. I take the concept expressed earlier by Senator Begin to say that, when the League was in the Government, from 2001 onwards, it never managed to operate for a decrease in the tax pressure or however the tax pressure never fell in Italy: the League said it wanted to do it, but it did not succeed. For those who don't believe it, given the disputes that arose earlier during the speech of my colleague, Mr Beginini, there is the possibility of going to see the historian's data. It happened, however, that at most they made condons. Today with the economic maneuver of 2020 we make an intervention of about 30 billion, 26 of which will go for the reduction of taxes, 23 for the reduction of the VAT and the excises and 3, instead, for the reduction of the tax wedge, the same decrease of the taxes that, as can always be seen from the historian, there was for the first time with the Government Prodi in 2007, then resumed by the Renzi government with an intervention of 10 billion of 80 euros and 6 billion for the IRAP, continued by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. It is too easy to make electoral promises that cannot be kept without breaking public accounts, and then fleeing to their own responsibilities that they do not want to admit; then, the objectivity of the data, from this point of view, serves to refocus the game. Fortunately this phase has closed, so let's go back to the decree-law that makes the protection of legality and fiscal simplification two distinctive elements. The protection of legality translates first and foremost in the fight against tax evasion, which is certified by the Update Note to the DEF (NADEF) in 109 billion. We know what tax evasion means: it means affecting efficiency and fairness, hindering the smooth functioning of the market, altering redistributive mechanisms that are designed by law. The rules of the new tax decree promise to combat first of all a series of VAT evasions and avoidances, tax frauds on the excise duties of hydrocarbons, undue compensation. A separate speech would deserve article 4 on withholding taxes and compensation in contracts, subcontracting, reverse charge and labour, entirely replaced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, which brings a series of measures in the matter of contrast to the omitted payment of withholding taxes and is the paradigm of the reasoning I developed previously: a comparison of merit within the majority that does not lead to lower mediations, but instead operates a virtuous synthesis with unchanged revenues and this is the method that the new majority wants to witness. In Article 4, therefore, the fight against unnecessary bureaucracy, against false cooperatives, those that do not respect workers, has been amplified and the number of enterprises exempted from the new obligation for the buyers to receive from the contractors copies of the delegations of payment of taxes and social security for their workers has been increased. The House of Deputies has increased the number of exemptions for a number of companies that give contracts less than EUR 200,000; above all, all companies that have been operating for more than three years are excluded from the rules. I stress this because these are two battles on which Italy Viva particularly emphasized and which were shared by the majority, as other themes posed by other subjects of the majority were shared by us: the theme of the change of method. With the tax decree, measures are then taken to root e-invoicing, which this year has given an extra cost of more than 3 billion euros only on VAT and of 4 billion in total; the use of e-payments, credit cards at the expense of cash, with anti-evasive value, is encouraged. In the field of public gaming there is a strong fight against illegal operators, to protect players, operators and legal dealers; a fund is set up to finance undercover agents to monitor public gaming; the ban on public gaming in the event of tax violations is introduced, a very important measure knowing everything that has happened in the past. It is finally made clear that from 1 January VAT will be paid on the courses of driving schools, but that the problem of retroactivity for unpaid VAT in previous years is not raised, meeting the conclusions of the assigned deal managed in 6th Commission by the excellent Senator Sciascia. The guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises for 670 million is being refinanced; a fight against pink tax on women's hygiene products is being waged: once there was VAT to 22%, it is reduced to 5% for women's compostable and biodegradable products. This is a first important step which will have to be followed by others. In the face of almost all these positive elements, there are also measures that we feel we share less, such as Article 39 on tax crimes, despite the revision of the original text. In tax criminal matters there is no peace from the law of handcuffs to the evaders of 1982 onward, with stop and go that they have alternated. We are opposed to the extension of the application of confiscation because of disproportion, which - let us remember - was originally part of the patrimonial prevention measures to combat organised crime and attack the illicitly accumulated wealth that could be used for the commission of further crimes. Confiscation for disproportion in a different field would lead to the preventive seizure of assets of companies that give work, with the risk, given the time of justice in our country, to see them closed before arriving at the end of the trial. Despite this, we are absolutely happy for the very important relaunch of individual savings plans (PIR), introduced by the 2017 budget law, which in previous years had a collection of 11,000 billion euros. Created as a medium-term form of investment, capable of conveying savings to Italian companies, they are an outlet for private investment; you know that at this moment in Italy we have 1,476 billion down on current accounts. It was a very useful tool, which had been blocked in its development by the fiscal law of 2019, so much so as to lead to only 200 million collection in 2019 itself. The introduction of new and lower constraints I think is an important qualitative leap. There would be other things to stress, from the benefit companies to the refinancing of the fund for the heirs of asbestos victims, to the fact that the so-called Gulf-Moscow law is being extended and renewed. I would like to close by saying the last positive thing: the new funds for digitising ports are allocated. As Italy Viva we believe that the theme of infrastructure and public investment is fundamental to relaunch our country. We often hear talk of funds allocated, but blocked; unlocking over EUR 120 billion in infrastructure, rail and airport works, the real shock that our economy needs, I think, is fundamental, because it serves to increase GDP, which is the fixed denominator compared to the numbering of deficits or public debt, which we so much discuss in the European Union. I think that this battle should be for the whole of Parliament, as Senator Perosino well understood in his speech today. All these things give the sense of the beginning of a path that must take us far, but above all they are the testimony of a change of method, a new method that leads us to take so many small steps, but always forward, without selling unrealizable dreams and having as sole interest the good of the country, which consists of so many serious citizens who do not deserve to be mocked with false electoral promises. In this House, there are those who look superficially at the existing situation. We, as reformists, look to the future of Italy. For these reasons, Italy Viva-PSI will vote for this Government. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Collina. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u71	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say gentlemen of the Government, but I am content to say, Mr Undersecretary, that I have been called by my Group to speak in an explanation of vote on this umpteenth confidence that is being requested from the Chambers. You see, Mr President, already this morning I have had the opportunity to say bitterly that this is not how Parliament should work. We should not have this lack of respect for the institutions, for the Chambers, for the Parliamentary Commissions, so much so that even Professor Cassese has been uncomfortable today on the "Corriere della Sera" to point out how everything is put inside an omnibus decree-law, going beyond what are the logical rules of parliamentary operation, to get to the conclusions quickly. You see, Mr President, this is the second financial manoeuvre I am going to comment on. I was going to say that this is the second financial maneuver I have worked on, but unfortunately I have to say that the work that we Members of Parliament, also of the Technical Commissions (the Finance Committee and the Budget Commission), have been able to do on the financial maneuver was in fact a waste of work, even a lack of work, because we have often not even been allowed to go into the substance of the measures. This happened last year. I still remember when the friends of the Democratic Party launched the files of the amendments to President Pesco in protest. Today, however, unfortunately, they have behaved exactly the same way, not obviously throwing out the sheets or the files (so much less we did), but rather emulating the previous Government, preventing Parliament and the Commissions from working. So we are going to comment on a maneuver that already starts off on the wrong foot, precisely because of the lack of respect for the institutions. A maneuver that, citing today's "Il Sole 24 Ore" can be defined without soul. A maneuver that made 15 gears back in 80 days. In almost three months, that is, we have seen proclamations, we have seen retractions, we have seen a continuous back and forth, so that in the end we can say everything and the opposite of everything and we can, perhaps, hear from the majority who did well, in the sense that "this" has not been done and "that other" has been reduced. Too bad that "this and that" were always proposals that came from the majority itself, which, therefore, with one arm proposed and with the other then reduced. Almost as if the Italians were stupid and did not understand what, in fact, is a ridiculous ballet behind our economy and our citizens. Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, I would like you to at least listen for a moment and not just check your mobile phone: I would like our financial maneuver, our tax decree, at such a dramatic time for the national economy, to deal with those issues and problems which the citizens, unfortunately, know at their expense. We have seen ISTAT say in these hours how the gap between North and South is growing. I live in the deep North, in that Trentino-Alto Adige that is often in the top places in the rankings; many colleagues live in Lombardy and Veneto, in these territories that however take precedence and we see that the distance from the South continues to increase, as the emigration of our young people continues to increase: 115,000 young people, 115,000 Italians, have left this country while someone was talking about the ius soli. Here, let us forget our young people and instead think of welcoming everyone with open arms. This seems to be the spirit that animates this majority and which, unfortunately, adversely characterizes the measures that result from it. Mr President, we have a country that can't answer the problems. We have a policy that can't respond to professional problems. Those two million Italian professionals who are not given anything, because they are considered evaders, because they are considered only resources to be squeezed when they want to draw money, which are considered elements and subjects to be put in prison. Here, those millions of professionals, those millions of VAT matches, are seen by this majority, by this decree-law and by this related tax, as reality and non-existent subjects, as I will explain then in the final passages and in the points that we will go to treat. I shall of course proceed in a nutshell, because there are so many issues. I would have expected this maneuver as a whole of the answers to the budget balance. There are those who talk about Europe and perhaps accuse us of not being European. This is precisely because we believe in a Europe that is truly made up of equals, in a Europe that has not been subjected to someone's power to be subject to someone else. A Europe where all countries have equal dignity, where banks may be saved in the same way and where banks may apply the same accounting standards and have the same credit capacity (and here too, we could open a big chapter). Well, it would be appropriate if those who love Europe, instead of constantly falling into deficits of as many as 16 billion in this financial manoeuvre, could perhaps show, for a 0.1 or 0.2, that, at the expense of unproductive current expenditure, they are pursuing a balanced budget. On the contrary, none of this, in this maneuver that would prove by the majority that is improperly defined, I repeat, pro-European. We could also have talked and discussed another topic: European funds And perhaps, within this budgetary maneuver that contains everything, as Professor Cassese says, we could have foreseen rules that would try to remedy the inefficiency of certain regions in the use of European funds: we are among the first contributors of Europe and we are among the worst users of European resources. And what does the national state do? Why does the national state allow the regions not to use and, therefore, waste European funds? I would have expected from a strategic and intelligent financial maneuver some answers in these terms and, instead, none of that. Coming more specifically to tax matters, entrepreneurs, traders, craftsmen and self-employed people who look to us would have expected measures for the productive class, which should help to raise GDP and create jobs. It seems natural to invest in the productive class of the country, if you really want to encourage an economic sector and make this country recover and create new jobs. Dear colleagues, there is nothing or almost anything for the productive class of the country, allow me! And they do not say Brothers of Italy or Andrea De Bertoldi, we do not say so on the Italian right, they all say - I repeat: all - the business associations of this country and the categories representing professionals. It is therefore a now certified lack of disinterest in the productive and professional world. You're talking about fighting evasion, but what fight against evasion do you want to do? The lottery of receipts or the decrease in cash? Let us be serious: those who want to fight evasion, move on the contrast of interests. You have done nothing about the conflict of interest between the seller or the service provider and the user. None of this, as nothing has been done about tax simplification, which would be the first form of combating evasion. President. - I conclude on two points to say what is in this maneuver. Article 3 is creating enormous problems on the issue of compensation for self-employed workers, who will have to wait ten months to take advantage of their own tax credits. There is a huge problem related to the tax penalty and I remember the friends of the Democratic Party, who this morning, in general discussion, said that confiscation is not a problem because it is simply linked to the disproportionate income, that there are also people who may have worked in the past. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). I declare the vote against the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u74	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to better define the organisation of our work with your help. Of course, at the end of the explanations of vote, the roll-call vote on the matter of trust will begin. It is usually a type of vote for which a precise timetable is defined in such a way as to allow all senators to organize themselves to participate, so much so that this morning, after the vote that rejected the requests for changes to the calendar, President Calderoli finished his speech saying that the call would take place around 17. It seems to me that our work is accelerating and, therefore, I would propose to the other groups and, in particular, to the Presidency that we consider starting at 5 p.m., but more reasonably at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u75	I have no objection to the proposal to bring the vote forward at 4.30 p.m. unless there are any objections from the other groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u78	AIROLA (M5S). Excuse me, Mr President, I heard you apologise several times today, at the beginning of the sitting. I don't have the habit of suing anyone, and I don't think I ever do, but I'd apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u79	If you want to talk about something that concerns you, do it at the end of the day, we're doing something else now. I know who has to apologize. Apologize to her, if anything.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u82	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to point out that it is true that when the call on trust is organized, a time is usually set no matter when the explanations of vote are finished, so we have nothing against accepting the proposal put forward by Senator Ferrari. We just want to point out, however, that three trusts have been placed in four days and there is no one from the present government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u83	Senator Romeo, I must say that the government is still present.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u84	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). It's okay, but the Ministers are usually present on the subject of trust. It is not that Parliament is central alone - we say it to the PD, to Italy Viva and to the 5 Star Movement - when it governs the League or the centerright: Parliament is central or not central and this idea of democracy when it is genuinely convenient has also quite tired us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yes, of course, there is undersecretary Villarosa, but also yesterday: where is the President of the Council? Where are the competent ministers? The ministries' benches are strictly empty. Three trusts in four days! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, please listen to me. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). If the opposite were the case, I would have liked to have seen the speeches of the gentlemen of democracy, what they would have done in this House today!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u85	Senator Romeo knows very well that the Undersecretary represents the Government, it is permissible to ask that there be ministers, but the Government is absolutely represented. I understand his loud oratory, but I honestly didn't understand if you agree that we are voting at 4:30 p.m. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I told you, yes, I agree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Well, then this intervention was so, adjuvandum. Without commenting, it remains to be established that at the end of the explanations of vote, if they end sooner as certainly will be, we shall interrupt the sitting until 4.30 p.m., when it begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u88	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I would also like to thank Senator Romeo for waking up the House, which was characterised by some tiredness and perhaps disinterest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u89	I would ask you to return to the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u90	D'ALFONSO (PD). We are faced with a discussion that is not secondary because it concerns the tax decree-law which, as colleagues have also explained, represents one of the accounting documents that allows the order to function and to keep true to the commitments entered into. The tax decree was worked in the Chamber of Deputies and I say with an attitude, a conduct of investigation that I think has been useful, so much so that it enriched both quantitatively and qualitatively the original approach of the decree-law. I have been convinced for years that there are both financial resources and regulatory resources and also the norm is a resource and, more than financial ones, it has the characteristic of unlimitedity: the financial resource is limited, the regulatory resource is unlimited. We find in the tax decree numerous answers with the norm as an unlimited resource in relation to the problems of the economy and the functioning of the system. I have not even seen what is sometimes found and which I call a certain Babylon from disorder; in this case there was a logical thread, which led the work of instruction of the decree-law. Let us start with an approach relating, for example, to the fight against tax evasion, which is a big issue on the Italian political agenda: 109 billion is the size of tax evasion, which weighs the bulk of the lack of answers to citizens' questions. There are demands for greater capacity to successfully regulate the fight against evasion. In addition to the 109 billion tax evasion, there are another 900 billion euros of credit warehouse, which are there, with a certain difficulty of dismantling: we manage to assume only 9 billion euros a year from the warehouse of tax credits. What does the tax decree-law do on this front? It does what every non-responsible citizen would have put in place: it leads to a strengthening of human and technological resources to declare further war on evasion and to demobilise that mountain of tax credits that cannot be attacked. Over a four-year period, €47 million is expected to be employed in the financial administration. But why isn't that said? If we do not say so, let us cultivate hypocrisy, the same hypocrisy that I have tried to point out on the draft budget law with reference to the resources allocated to public works, which do not become yards because the OR, the directors of the works, the designers are lacking. On this front you cannot be ghosts, otherwise you become chaste. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Caste is a living existence that does not produce results, that does not generate results in the relationship between citizens-powers, citizens-institutions. I worked on it, but, I must say, it was one of the defeats of these first 20 months of Senate. I saw eyes spinning, eyes almost indifferent and disinterested. My colleague Errani, who has a few months of experience, explained to me that perhaps it is the inexperience that generates disinterest and distraction. We hope to set up an ad hoc table. We must take note of the fact that a measure is finally put in place which avoids fraud with regard to compensation between duties and rights and with regard to tax obligations. What has happened in past years has required additional work from the financial administration to verify who has wronged, who has injured, who has carried out fraudulent conduct. When the order fails to make it and assists in evasion and avoidance in the numbers I have described, what does the legislator do? It stiffens, creates a penalty mechanism to recover a virtuous course. There's no other way. I would like to say controversially, thinking of the great senators of this Assembly of the past century, that the other way is to say prayers and turn to the angels. Either a system is created capable of claiming and assuming that there is a virtuous course or there is abandonment, which we have known in some years of the past. The tax decree puts in place another intelligent rule, which no one mentioned in the so-called investigation activity: the passive interests deriving from the activities of the project companies for investment in large infrastructure. So it looks like it takes PricewaterhouseCoopers consultants to figure out what this is all about. Private-initiative project companies that take on onerous investments in banking and produce banking charges can tax those charges, because downstream work is an infrastructure that serves the community. Who says that there is no soul or that there is little soul within this decree-law, has not read, has not studied, has not considered the great work done in the House to make sure that a normative strengthening emerges. I quote for example the resources allocated to RFI, keeping it in a perimeter distant from that of the public administration in order to make expenses for investments: RFI will no longer be able to do anything in the perimeter of public administration. With the rule of this decree-law it is kept outside; which means speed, solicitude, concreteness. [[Applause from the PD Group]] But how can we fail to detect this, ladies and gentlemen? Do you know what is the only major work that saw its birth in 2019? Morandi Bridge. With the logic of the Commissioner's extraordinary procedure. The tax decree-law, when dealing with RFI with this specification, shelters the demand for large infrastructures and allows differentiated standardisation, as well as resources related to small and medium-sized enterprises: 670 million euros for guarantee purposes. This is also a development measure. It declares war on deception against tax obligations. It is the Constitutional Charter that has in place. Tax correctness, tax progressiveness in relation to wealth is a requirement of the Constitutional Charter: to ensure that the administration brings home results to cover the country's investment needs. There is a shy article in the final part of the decree-law where it is arranged on the safety of school construction. Well, there I would ask for more courage because, ladies and gentlemen, intervening after disasters happen means paying 12 times more. [[Applause from the PD Group]] On this, even when a statement is made in favour - as I will do in the name of the PD - it does not mean giving up ambition; it is shaking the capacity for financial provision to ensure that open issues, such as school safety, find cover and fast procedures. For these reasons I find myself in the decree-law, in the Commission's work of inquiry, but I say that on the agenda we must continue to pretend that the gap between what we need and what we can give is not so disrespectful. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote yes to this measure, but I also call on you to continue a substantive debate. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u93	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this Government will enrich the Italian popular wisdom of a new proverb: a confidence per day takes away the electorate! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are here for the second confidence of the week, and we are therefore preparing for this explanation of vote, which of course - I say this now to take away your suspense - will be against it, because we do not like the approach taken in this decree-law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are going to have a debate that we do not want to be useless; we take a few points raised in the previous explanations of vote. We have been accused of looking superficially at the existing. I would rather urge you to go further, to take this opportunity of reflection on the fallibility of human existence and on the fragility of the intentions that we all set ourselves: we are all passing through this Earth; many in this House too, unless we extend the algebra of mandates to negative numbers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, I do not want to read to you the "Ecclesiastes" or the "Canti" by Leopardi; I want to read this book, whose prose scarna, however, is functional for the purpose that I propose. This is the reading note that our excellent Budget Service has drawn up on this measure. It goes for articles. Article 1 in the section "In this respect" reads that: The estimate of such revenue has elements of subjectivity (...) which should suggest (...) that these effects should be accounted for only ex post. In other words, the deaf are not the ones you say. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I translate for the Romans. In Article 2, it is also stated in the section "in this regard" that the estimate presents elements of subjectivity "which, yes, should actually suggest, from a prudential point of view, to carry out the accounting of these effects only ex post". Remaining for the time being on the technical and arid part, and then entering into the substance of the articles, in Article 3, section "in this regard," it is stated that elements of subjectivity could have suggested an accounting only ex post. Article 4 concerns false cooperatives; none more than us would like to hold this battle against false cooperatives. In Article 4, it is also stated in the section "In this regard" that the highest revenue is a high degree of randomity and the quantification is based on assumptions, not objectively supported, concerning the fact that the amount escaped represents 15 per cent of the total revenue evaded. Do I have to move on? The first 10 articles are all like this. In this respect, the technical report does not allow the parameters on which the proposed quantification is based to be found. In this respect, the technical report does not provide the data, etc. etc. etc. All this to make us understand how we were all put in a position to work. In fact, I would not like the document of our excellent offices to sound like an accusation against the General Accounting Office of the State, which did what it could, like us, in the times of the particularly convoluted political process that brought us here. A political process convulsed for a reason. In fact, if, as has been mentioned before, in two we did a little 'hard to understand, but in the end a road was found, in four the difficulties are greater. As far as these covers are concerned, then, it should be said that the tax decree is basically as useful as a crochet umbrella. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I do not know what can happen where it should rain; in this way I have also explained to my colleague Pirovano that this is a hook and this is an umbrella, so now he knows the hieroglyphics I use for my allocations. However, I would now like to go into the matter, because beyond the randomness of the covers that are guaranteed to us by the decree, it is the method that must place a reflection on everyone. Apart from the usual theme of a heterogeneous decree, there are some genuinely worrying points. I would like to stress one that is cross-cutting, because it embraces two pieces of manoeuvre that we have dealt with: the budget law, on the one hand, the tax decree, on the other. You claimed you didn't make a maneuver based on handcuffs. I agree and, among other things, I would also like to add a little detail: handcuffs sometimes serve and not use them for a buonism misunderstanding can also cause tragedies, as we have seen, for example, with the two agents who have fallen to Trieste in service. It cannot be denied, however, that this maneuver is based on a certain - let us say that? - fiscal terrorism. It has been asked which craftsman exceeds the threshold of 100,000 euros; to lower from 150,000 euros to 100,000 euros the limit for the case of inaccurate and inaccurate declaration, is a measure that attacks the small, certainly not the large, who are far above this threshold. Then we want to talk about the dangers posed to privacy and, once again, I would say more than the small ones than the big ones, from devices such as that of Article 14? Even the privacy guarantor who in the other arm of the manoeuvre, the budget law, wanted to reform by amendment, expressed himself very critically: the preservation of electronic invoices until 31 December of the eighth year following that of submission of the declaration with an integral archive that also includes non-taxable data, is looked at with an extreme concern also in the light of the issue of risk analysis, which was already worrying in the first version - that of the original text - but that after the further amendments (I refer in this case to Article 86 of the budget law) becomes even more disturbing. We have to ask ourselves about this model which, it cannot be denied, has the obvious intention of putting psychological pressure in particular on the smallest. So in a particularly cowardly way, because small entrepreneurs have more difficulty in resisting, for example, in criminal proceedings. So, don't show up as friends of the little ones. No one believes that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise the elections wouldn't be going the way they're going. I must tell you this with great serenity, without sounding critical. The truth is that adversity to small business is ideological. We have many progressive colleagues who refer the problems of the productivity of the Italian company exclusively to a dimensional factor, when a little more detailed and less "baristic" analysis captures in the flattening of the dynamics of Italian productivity, since 1997, a plurality of factors among which the size of the company, always with the intention of demonizing the small ones, do not play a particularly important role. For the simple reason that it did not happen in 1997, or in any case in the mid-1990s, all Italian companies became small. So perhaps the problem is a little more complex and yet the small enterprise is objectively an idol of the left. Not today, for tactical reasons, but structurally it is, and we tend to reject it. I would also like to add a word on those who have reiterated the issue of the anti-constitutionality of flat tax. If flat tax is unconstitutional, as a proportional tax, then abstractly considered, VAT is also unconstitutional, which is also a proportional tax. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would also like to draw your attention to another point, which I should like to conclude. With the history that we have increased the tax burden, perhaps we should also stop, because the tax burden is a ratio between revenue and GDP. Do we agree that when the safeguard clauses took place in 2013 and the VAT increased from 21 to 22%, the tax burden rose? There was fiscal tightening and the revenue-to-GDP ratio fell from 44.1 to 43.5 percent. Why? Because the increase in rates had led to a fall in revenue. Do we want to follow that path? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We bring VAT to 23% and you will see that revenue will fall. But we, just like you, would have been able to avoid this, which would have been an absurd outcome. So, if we want to talk about things, let us do it constructively and with intellectual honesty, because the real way to restore equity in this country is not to tax the rich assumptions - so much, if they are such, they are in tax havens - but to guarantee a fair remuneration of workers, who, in a system based on wage deflation, this fair remuneration will hardly ever be able to find it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u96	SCIASCIA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government, the measure under consideration consists of fifty-nine articles and came to us from the Chamber of Deputies, which approved it at first reading on 6 December 2019, making significant modifications to the original text proposed by the Government and doubling in practice the text proposed by the introduction of a significant number of additional articles. It is an armored text for which it was not possible, on the part of the Senate, given the narrowness of time for its examination, any modification. It is a complex measure that covers many issues, perhaps too many, not only of a fiscal nature, but also and above all related to the functioning of the public administration, for example the customs sector, and the strengthening of the financial administration's staff. It also contains a whole series of measures for sectors of minor importance: I quote, for example, the rule for the sale to non-farmers of plant protection products for apartment plants or Article 58-g which provides for measures for the safety of school buildings, measures of very important interest to recipients but which have nothing to do with taxation. The ratio for the sector of tax rules is to make cash in any way, even at the expense of taxpayers with tax credits exceeding 5,000 euros per year, to which Articles 1, 2 and 3 prohibit, in order to counter undue compensation, to operate in compensation no longer at the rise of the credit but, new term, from the tenth day following that of submission of the annual declaration (VAT or income). By way of example, it is possible to deduct in model F24 all known the VAT credit from VAT debt alone: in practice the taxpayer will not be able to use the IRPEF credit emerging from the annual declaration to compensate the VAT in debt in the following year. For example, a VAT credit of EUR 10,000, which arose in May 2020, can only be compensated after the annual VAT return, i.e. after 10 March 2021. A further example of the fiscal triumph of the cash principle in favour of the financial administration: Article 58, in force since 27 September 2019, not amended by the Chamber, provides that from the date of entry into force indicated, income tax payments shall be established in two instalments equal to 50% of the due. This provision is applicable only to ISA (Synthesis of Reliability Index) thus creating, as noted in clear letters also by the main financial newspaper, "children and stepchildren" because the companies and professionals subject to ISA will pay the down payment - for 2020 unfortunately always 100% in two equal installments - while the other taxpayers, and therefore the natural persons, will continue to pay the first down payment to 40% and the second down payment to 60%. A good example of tax complication. I would like to add a brief mention to Chapter IV of the measure, which, as you know, concerns the increase of both criminal and administrative sanctions. As far as criminal sanctions are concerned, which have already been widely explained by my fellow Members, I cannot fail to point out that the most accredited experts in tax criminal law consider these provisions to be of little or no effect in combating tax evasion. In my humble opinion, this objective can be achieved without using handcuffs or confiscation for disproportion, with a simple recipe: firstly, by lowering the tax burden significantly and then by reducing or resetting the bureaucratic burden on taxpayers, with particular regard to smaller businesses and professionals. The tax authorities now know the number of coins I have in my pocket by electronic means, drawing on archives of great importance and specificity; so what is the point of asking me, as a VAT-code holder, to fill out questionnaires on increasingly complicated questionnaires with an obligation to transmit them electronically? If already the tax authorities and the tax authorities - including the Finance Guard - not only have the right to access the archives of the banks and of the INPS, but, this is the novelty introduced by Article 14, to use for as long as eight years also the files of the e-invoicing, with possibility therefore to compare such data with the results of the bank accounts, what is the sense, I repeat, to continue to request the compilation of innumerable questionnaires? For all these reasons, as well as for all those already put forward by my party colleagues, I would like to say that Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the last statement in an explanation of vote, I would remind you that we will then suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m., when it will begin to call you for trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u100	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the measure we are about to vote on sets out a modern plan of tax simplifications consisting of incentives, rewarding systems for honest taxpayers and also a need to tighten the discipline of certain tax offences, in particular those that typically distinguish the conduct of the great evaders. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u101	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower your voice, since my colleague is speaking. Anyway, if you're gonna get out, you can do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u102	Please, Senator. LEONE (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, the distinguishing feature of the measure is precisely to push the modernisation of the tax-paying relationship, by relaunching a pact that must absolutely recover the lost confidence of the citizens. In order to achieve this objective the decree-law prepares an organic package of interventions, which must be seen in its entirety and which does not criminalize this or that category at all; indeed, with this measure finally a Government assumes the responsibility to look into the face of tax evasion, which in Italy amounts to 109 billion euros per year and to recover as many resources as possible to be immediately made available to citizens in the form of reduced taxes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, this is the new pact which, as the President of the Council, Giuseppe Conte has repeatedly said, we intend to build. The decree provides for a tightening of the penalties for the great evaders, especially in the case of the fraudulent declaration, that is the case in which the evader's intention to conceal his income and deceive the State is more marked. The cash use threshold is expected to fall from 3,000 to 2,000 euros from July 2020 to reach 1,000 euros from 2022. The reduction of the cash ceiling is gradual because, first, we believe it is important to bring down bank charges on electronic transactions. For the same reason, thanks to the impulse of the Movimento 5 Stars, the sanction was cancelled initially introduced for traders who refuse payments with ATM, sanction that had been previewed in 30 euros, with increase of 4 percent of the value of the transaction denied to the customer. I would like to repeat that it is essential for us to reach an agreement with the banking system as soon as possible in order to bring down the charges on electronic transactions strongly, because ultimately the evolution towards a more traceable payment system cannot be paid by our traders. Measures to combat evasion are introduced to combat the illegal administration of labour and the circumvention of procurement legislation by cooperatives or fictitious undertakings which thus evade VAT and do not pay withholding tax on workers' incomes. In order not to burden small and medium-sized enterprises too much, to further demonstrate that there is no criminalisation here, during the parliamentary process of the decree-tax law in the House it has been made clear that this law of contrast will only cover contracts over 200,000 euros in value. Measures to combat fraud in the fuel sector are also strengthened and new forms of combating evasion and illegality in the gaming sector are introduced, through the establishment of the single register of public gaming operators and the blocking of payments for those operating from abroad without concessions. The establishment of the undercover agent is also on the way to the gaming industry. In order to strike the great escape we also introduce the confiscation due to disproportion planned to date for serious crimes such as those of Mafia. In practice, with this measure we are going to hit the assets of the evader to a greater extent than the amounts escaped in deterrent and even redistributive function. As a complementary measure, within the budget law just adopted by this House, a plan has been put in place to promote electronic payments and to establish a fundamental principle: to be honest agrees. The plan provides for the introduction of a "superbonus," to be recognised from the beginning of 2021, in relation to expenses incurred with traceable payment instruments, i.e. credit cards, bank transfers and ATMs, as well as the establishment of special prize draws for those who pay with electronic money. This is what has been renamed a befana bonus, as it is expected to be 3 billion from 2021, with the aim of bringing out the submerged. In conclusion, there is no will to become fierce about small traders, professionals and retailers. In fact, at last the fight against evasion will focus on the big evaders. Beyond the overall estimates on evasion, in fact, we have certain data concerning the so-called credit warehouse of the Revenue Agency. Well, these figures tell us that a small proportion of taxpayers who have open accounts with the tax office hold more than 80% of the total debt to the tax office: millions of small debtors escape in total much less than a few hundred thousand large debtors. The anti-evasion plan therefore does not produce any witch hunts, as some sterile propaganda desperately tries to say. Instead, we are talking about a rational package, a coherent package, which - as I said - combines technologically advanced instruments, rewarding incentives and more stringent deterrents. The fact that in the anti-evasion package there are several measures aimed at combating VAT evasion comes from the fact that value added tax is the most evasive, with about 37 billion out of 110 totals per year. So, again in this case, no criminalization of this or that category, but an intervention dictated by the careful analysis of the starting situation and the dynamics of the escape. The Movimento 5 Stars, ultimately, shares a measure that intends to take on the problem of this distortion and dispersion of resources, packaging a package made up of many dowels. The aim is therefore to recover resources for the community to be transformed immediately into a tax reduction measure. Only in this way can we rebuild that covenant which, thanks to this provision, is much closer. It is for all these reasons that the Movimento 5 Star Group will vote for the trust of this decree, renewing the confidence of this Government. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u103	That concludes the explanations of vote. I suspend the sitting until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.05 a.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.) We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u104	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill no. 1638 of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 124 of 26 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators De Siano, Fusco, Galliani, Monti, Nastri, Petrenga, Vono and Croatti. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Maiorino is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Maiorino. (Senator Secretary Tosato and, later, Senator Secretary Pisani Giuseppe make the appeal). (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes over - 16.51 p.m.) The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Campagna, Cario, Casini, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Di Nicola, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Evangelista Faraone, Desì, Fattori Felamo, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Di Piazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalder Endrizzi PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1638 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 124 of 26 October 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 288 Senators voting 288 Majority 145 Favorable 166 Contrars 122]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 124.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u105	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Classical High School of Ruggieri in Massafra, in the province of Taranto, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u106	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-176.ana.u107	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 18 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.26 p.m.)
