ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 18.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the situation in Venezuela. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Professor Moavero Milanesi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u4	Mr President, senators and senators, the situation in Venezuela deserves all our attention and concern. If I can make an extreme synthesis, there are three factors of concern: the current political drift, the very serious economic and social crisis that is affecting the population of Venezuela and, third, for us Italians, the presence of a very important community of our compatriots, descendants of Italians and also Italian citizens present in Venezuela. We have always advocated a European response to this crisis, as well as the other crises we face in the world. We believe that it is right to pursue - this is what Italy has always done and what the Government is doing - a peaceful and democratic solution for this country so close to us. If you'll excuse me, I'm moving on to a reconstruction of the events that have led to the current situation. Early presidential elections took place in May last year, leading to the reconfirmation of the current president, Nicolás Maduro. These elections were judged by the international community and observers as non-free and non-transparent. Consequently, the legitimacy of the current President of Venezuela has been seriously affected. The factors that led to this judgment can be summarized schematically in the following: the participation of voters in the vote has been low - unusually low - in a country where it is normally high; there have been at least questionable judicial decisions, which have led to the exclusion of various opposition members from the electoral competition; there have been numerous complaints of irregularities and the result has not been recognized by the opposition coalition, neither by the Organization of American States, nor by the European Union. These international organisations - of course, they do not have direct powers of intervention, but they can freely express their views - immediately declared themselves in favour of new elections, provided they are free and transparent. In June last year, in the face of a lack of progress, a package of so-called individual sanctions was approved at EU level, because they affect individuals: 11 members of the current government regime in Venezuela were held responsible and, therefore, sanctioned for violations of human rights and democratic rules. The aim of the violations was to maintain a form of stimulus and pressure to engage in dialogue between the Venezuelan political forces and possibly to re-establish the framework of democratic legitimacy. In fact, it happened that, on August 5, 2018, there was an alleged attack in the presence of President Maduro and this caused a series of interventions that were carried out against the oppositions, which were indicated by the regime as guilty. This, of course, has in turn resulted in a further reaction at the level of the international community. In particular, some Latin American countries - Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay and Peru, to which Canada has added - have made a very rare decision in international relations, namely the referral of Venezuela to the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity. This is an indictment of a gravity to the very strong evidence. The European Union, for its part, with the full support and participation of Italy, has always insisted on five points which - always in the attempt to be clear - I would like to outline: the first, the full restoration and respect of the powers of the democratically elected National Assembly in elections judged to be valid by the international community and by observers; the second, the indication of new credible presidential elections (the constant point of this affair in the position of the European Union); the third, the release of all prisoners qualified as political prisoners; the fourth, the full guarantee of freedom of expression and information (so we are at the basic freedoms); the fifth, the opening of appropriate humanitarian corridors to allow the influx of international aid to the population. Let me remind you that one of the three serious elements of this situation is precisely the social emergency that affects different layers of the Venezuelan population. This is the further development of recent months: a real refugee crisis, people who leave Venezuela to seek refuge and better situations in neighbouring countries. Italy has intervened in this regard - as a particular example - with a financing of EUR 500 000 to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, and has promoted - at the end of October 2018 - an exploratory start of the European Union, together with Latin American countries, to try to facilitate dialogue between Government and opposition. Let's get to the latest developments. On 10 January, President Maduro took office - in the situation of non-full democratic legitimacy of which we have already said - for his second term. The ambassadors of the States of the European Union have not been present at the so-called settlement ceremony, for a clearly coordinated decision at Union level. Subsequently, initiatives were taken by the Government to restrict the full possibility of Parliament, which in the meantime had elected Juan Guaidó as its President. On 23 January the President of the National Assembly of Venezuela - he is the President of Parliament - on the basis of the articles of the Venezuelan Constitution - for those who love numbers, it is articles 233 and 333 - swore as interim President and thus came to a break in the internal institutional framework. Following this statement, the President of the Assembly received recognition from the United States and seven of the countries of the so-called Lima Group, which brings together the countries of South America. They remained outside this support Mexico and Uruguay, who expressed a common position for negotiations between the government and opposition in Venezuela. On the other hand, on the opposite side of support for President Maduro we find Cuba, Russia, China, Turkey, Nicaragua and Bolivia. There have been expressions of concern on the part of the Holy See and, with regard to the European Union, the state of the situation in Venezuela was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 January. A small group of countries (Italy, France, Spain, Portugal and the Netherlands) made a statement together - again on 21 January - to speed up the establishment of the so-called international contact group, which should bring together Latin American countries and European countries, to try to re-establish the threads of dialogue - or negotiation, if we want to call it that - between government and opposition and, if possible, - at least in the interests of European countries and Latin America - leading to a full re-establishment of democratic legitimacy. Subsequently, on 23 January last, there was a first declaration to 28 - all the Member States of the European Union currently - against the use of force by the police and in support of freedom of demonstration, because there was a repression of demonstrations against the Government. Finally, we come to the latest events. Between Friday 25 and Saturday 26 January, at the level of intensive contacts between the Member States of the European Union, a joint declaration was discussed - to the drafting of which, as an Italian Government, we have contributed more than actively - which was adopted and disseminated to the public on Saturday 26, which stresses the need to arrive at a democratic solution. In particular, here too I would like to sum up the five most important points. First of all, there is the condemnation of the deaths caused by repression and support for the democratically legitimate National Assembly. As a third element, there is a pressing appeal for elections to be convened, with an announcement to be made already in the next few days, compared to this Saturday 26. As a fourth element, if there is no announcement and no further elections are to be held, the countries of the European Union reserve the right to take further action. As an example, the issue of recognition of a different leadership in the country, as provided for in Article 233 - already mentioned by me - of the Venezuelan Constitution, is mentioned with the terminology included in it. As a fifth element, there is support for a credible process involving Venezuela and neighbouring countries, through the establishment of the international contact group, of which - I repeat - Latin American countries and EU Member States should be included. Some of the Member States of the European Union - 6 out of 28 and, specifically, France, Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands and Portugal - have felt that they should express a clearer position than the common position I have told you about. In particular, they have explicitly indicated an eight-day peremptory period within which to make the announcement, at the end of which they reserve shares. These statements were made substantially on the same day on Saturday 26 and clearly express support for the President of the Assembly and his current position as self-proclamation, under the Venezuelan Constitution, as Head of Government. As far as the Italian position is concerned, we fully recognize ourselves in the European Union's declaration, in particular the last one on Saturday, 26 January; a position which reaffirms an objective of result: to arrive at free, democratically recognizable and transparent elections for the President of the Republic. We also recognise that there is a time limit for the announcement of the new elections, although in the European declaration this term is not encrypted, unlike what happens in the declaration of the six countries of which I have told you. Let us bear in mind that the situation in Venezuela can be defined, with a neutral, fluid term; it is a tense situation, in which we must not forget that the priority must be to prevent it from increasing violence and preventing a clash. There are also those who fear the possibility of a civil war. This - as I said at the beginning - must be reflected with one eye in the presence of a strong community of Italian compatriots. The fundamental objective of the government line is to return the democratic choice to the Venezuelan people. There must be no doubt about that. The option of arriving at new elections, free and transparent, fully recognizable by the international community, is absolutely not to be questioned. We believe that work must be done to promote this process in the best possible way. With regard to this, we remain committed and we find that the establishment of the International Contact Group would be an important step, because it would allow us to have a permanent group, to the extent that it would be stable in relation to the current crisis, which can act as a stimulus and observer, also to make publicly known any drifts. There may be margins. There are elements that may suggest that this path can be taken, but we have not yet arrived. The issue remains a priority in discussions at European level. Tomorrow morning I will go to Bucharest, where there is a Council of Ministers of the European Union under the Romanian Presidency (it takes place in this form in the capital of Romania). Venezuela is the first item on the agenda and, therefore, today's debate in this House is very timely. We are strongly committed to the Italians and Venezuelan citizens of Italian origin who are located in the country, as well as we pay particular attention to our companies. We have taken a number of specific measures, which I quote briefly as an example, and of course we are available to give more details. We have taken action on the integration of the minimum pension. Take into account that there is a social emergency: it may seem completely out of place, inadequate in relation to the political emergency, but we are talking about the social emergency. We have, therefore, intervened on a more advantageous exchange rate for those in Venezuela and with an extraordinary plan of assistance to the most vulnerable groups, allocating for our most needy compatriots in Venezuela the sum of about two million euros. We have established a fund that can provide for the direct supply of medicines that are no longer available on the local market and, in the order of these examples, we have suspended the automatic adjustment of the tariff received for consular services, which is automatically adjusted to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency. This is an important measure, because devaluation has reached high rates. Our consular and embassy services operate at full speed, in assistance to Italians and citizens of Italian origin. We have strengthened the measures to ensure security by strengthening, among other things, the contingent of policemen in service at our headquarters. On the website of the Farnesina Viaggiare Sicuri, which aims to provide maximum information, all the necessary information is provided. A final word on the case of the Italian-Venetian town Laura Beatriz Gallo, activist of the opposition, who was arrested during the protest demonstrations of 23 January last. Our embassy has taken all the information and is providing assistance, in particular to verify your health and detention conditions. We are in contact with family members and lawyers, of course, as always happens when there are these difficult situations for Italians abroad. The procedural situation is as follows: the judge had ordered conditional freedom, there was an appeal by the public prosecutor and now the appeal judge must be pronounced. This is the picture, I hope. We will have further updates on the European positions downstream of the meeting I have already told you about tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Bucharest. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u5	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Magistral Institute Carlo Baudi of Vesme in Iglesias, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u6	Mr President, first of all let me say a greeting to the Italians in Venezuela, who are certainly at this moment - as we have been told for a few days - in contact with this House in a material way, in the sense that they are following the debate that is taking place here in the Senate. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] They waited anxiously for him. The government finally showed up, after four or five days of our requests, late in my opinion. I would also like to say to those Italians that many of those who are present in this Chamber will be in the square on Saturday with the Venezuelan community in Italy, demonstrating for the freedom of that country. I want to say this and I want to clear the field from a problem: you all know in this House, because of my long militancy, that I am almost always considered a mediator, even in excess, a person who seeks and avoids extremism. It is true, I am so, it is my nature and not only my political vocation. And I'm also a guy who never does personal polemics. I would like to say to Mr Moavero Milanesi, whom I appreciate, that I realize his situation and I would also like to clear the field from the fact that the considerations I will make are addressed personally to the Minister. We are all too smart not to understand that the Minister sits in a government where, on the subject of Afghanistan, the Minister of Defence explained that he was not obliged to warn the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I repeat, he sits in a government in which the Minister of Defence, faced with a subject such as withdrawal from Afghanistan, says that he was not required to speak to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator De Bertoldi]] Frankly, I am not surprised, after this premise, to hear what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has said now, that it is an impeccable bureaucratic communication on the bureaucratic position that the Italian Government has taken, which, moreover, has been bureaucratically anticipated by the President of the Council of Ministers, who a few hours ago - it is on all the agencies - explained to us that we are for dialogue; that we are for peace in Venezuela, and that we want the parties to dialogue with each other. Look, it's very hard not to agree with this. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]] The real problem is that this dialogue has been sought for years. The Vatican has done itself a mediation by calling everyone to the table, and everyone has understood that dialogue was only necessary to Maduro to take time and brutally repress the opposition in what has become a drug-trafficking regime, because the links between drug trafficking and the Venezuelan regime now know them also the children of asylum. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP]] And it is no coincidence that all the countries of the South American bloc, or almost all - certainly not Nicaragua, but perhaps one of these days we should talk about Nicaragua - have expressed a unique position. I am telling you honestly that it is not true that the Italian Government has not spoken. No, because if we say that this bureaucratic communication is not clear, we are wrong: it is very clear. For once let me say that Salvini - we always criticize him and I myself criticize him - was right. Salvini said: "I am with the Venezuelan people and against regimes like Maduro, founded on violence, fear and hunger. The sooner it falls, without further clashes, the better. I was hoping that, at least in this circumstance, since Salvini counts heavily in the Government, he would have given this line to the Italian Government, which is the line that they have expressed not some countries that have no interest in Venezuela. In this too, please, we are not so hypocritical as to say that we do not take a stand for fear of our fellow countrymen. Our countrymen in Venezuela today want us to take a stand. I understand that Spain has no fewer countrymen than we do in Venezuela. And I must thank the Spanish Government, the French Government, the United Kingdom Government, the Netherlands Government, who have courageously taken a position. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD and Senator De Bertoldi.]] We have a position; it is not true that we do not have one. We have a very clear position: the Italian Government is for an equidistant between Maduro and the Legislative Assembly. In essence, the Italian Government explains to us that they must dialogue; that the two fighting boys should stand at the table, because for us there is the President and Parliament; we do not know where to stand; we know that they must dialogue. No, no, it doesn't add up. I know where to stand, the Autonomy Group knows where to stand: we choose the only body legitimated by the popular vote, the real one, which is the Legislative Assembly. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]] We choose to be in solidarity with our Venezuelan colleagues who have been deprived of their salary, who have been deprived of their seat. If it is not clear to you, I would like to say that the regime has also cut light, gas and everything else in the Venezuelan National Assembly. At least out of solidarity between Members of Parliament, I believe that we should make this clear. And instead we choose the equidistance. Colleagues, on the five points mentioned earlier by the Minister, we all agree. You've seen Maduro also say that elections are needed. Today Maduro said that he agrees with the call for democratically guaranteed elections, but the National Assembly! He forgot his election [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD),]] because he's already cashed in the election. He is to renew the National Assembly. If it weren't a tragic affair, if it weren't for us to talk about the country that in the seventies was Eldorado - it was among the richest countries in the world, according to all statistics, while today it is reduced to the level of the most barefoot countries of our Planet - we would almost have to smile in front of these things. Well, I believe and hope that the Italian Government will change its position. I hope the Italian Government decides which side to stand on. I hope that the Italian Government will choose to be on the side of those who are in the streets today and are hungry for an illiberal and despotic regime. I hope that the Italian Government will come out of the appalling idea of equidistance as if there were two equally morally and democratically legitimated parties. No! They're not the same. They are not the same because on the one hand there is good; there is a policy that nevertheless tries to work in the interests of the people and risks in the first person to assert their ideas and, on the other hand, there is a regime that stands with the military. And do you know why the military is keeping this regime? They are compromised even above the head with the traffics, not least the narcotraffici, now completely connected with the Venezuelan regime. That is the reality. I'm not a dangerous extremist trying to get around. I am an objective person who to a large extent, with this speech, is connected with all the people who know the situation in Venezuela and who have, in recent years, followed the situation closely. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a missed opportunity for Italy, yet another. I am not surprised because, given the premises I have made about Afghanistan, the least that happens is that too. We hope that in the next few hours there will be a whisper of dignity. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FI-BP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u8	Mr Moavero Milanesi, thank you for informing this House about the Government's intentions regarding the Venezuelan crisis. We have listened very carefully to your words and we want to believe that they really represent the government's position. I say this because in recent days, as often happens, several members of the majority have expressed different positions, in some cases even contradictory. I think that Italy's foreign policy deserves more serious behaviour, greater caution in statements and a shared line at least at government level. We are not talking about the almost declarations of war in Germany, France and the Netherlands, but above all about the efforts of our soldiers who cannot and must not be exposed to greater risks for the belly of a shaky majority. I want to take this opportunity to convey my sincere solidarity to President Conte. Rather than ruling the country, the President of the Council seems obliged to spend most of his time reconciling the quarrelsome factions of his majority or proposing himself as a shield for the responsibility of others. We follow with apprehension the evolution of a situation of great tension: the worsening of the arm of iron between Nicolás Maduro and Juan Guaidó is bringing the country into chaos, while the Venezuelan people is already deeply exhausted by the truly dramatic economic and social conditions that you yourself illustrated, with deficiencies of food, medicines and water, with dozens of deaths following protests. We believe that at this point Italy, in agreement with the countries of the European Union and in accordance with international law, must promote a strong diplomatic initiative useful to prevent a geopolitical and geo-economic clash on this crisis that has nothing to do with the real urgency of these hours: first of all avoid a civil war and avoid bloodshed, in the supreme interest of all Venezuelan citizens, many of whom of Italian origin. The confrontation must then be brought back within the limits of democratic legitimacy, working so that the citizens choose independently and democratically, through new elections, the future of their country. We in Liberi and Equal believe that the international community must accompany this phase through international observers who watch over the proper conduct of new elections to be convened as soon as possible, through negotiation and diplomacy by all possible means, avoiding the ultimatums being resolved on occasions of fratricidal violence. As an opposition, we will loyally support the Italian Government in this perspective and at the same time ask you, Minister Moavero Milanesi, to report promptly to Parliament the further initiatives that you will want to take to protect the Italian community that lives in Venezuela and is following us. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u10	Mr President, we asked this House for our Government's intervention a week ago: it was therefore a week before we had a late, confused and approximate information policy. Meanwhile, we have all received hundreds, thousands of moving requests for help from our community in Venezuela. Two million Italian citizens - or Italians - have looked at us and look at us in these minutes: thanks to the Internet and the satellite channel, in fact, we are followed by that community precisely in these hours, while in Caracas and other cities people go down to the square to manifest and ask for freedom. Those people were waiting for a clear stand from the Homeland Government. In this week, however, according to the newspaper closest to the Government, "the Daily Fact" Italy has expressed four different positions. The first position is the one you have reiterated in this House, close to, or rather following, the European Union, since you have only spoken of following the European Union: Italy, which, together with Spain, is the country that has the most compatriots in Venezuela than anyone else, is in the wake of the European Union. Secondly, the same newspaper speaks of Salvini versus Maduro. At last, after the first day, when the League was embarrassed and silent, without taking positions in this House, the Interior Minister Salvini did so, and in a clear way, against the dictator Maduro, at the head of a junta and a military regime that also stand on drug trafficking. How much worse there can be in the world right now. A third position, against the United States, was expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs - or shadow - Mr Di Battista, who had just returned from Nicaragua. A fourth position - says the same newspaper - was expressed by the Premier, being among all the others. I would add, Minister for Foreign Affairs, that a fifth position was expressed a few minutes ago by the relative majority group that in an official statement - which anticipates what you have said - says exactly something else. In the official statement expressed by the Group of Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars a few minutes ago in an agency, in fact, a fifth position was expressed just before you spoke, which is the position of Greece; of this "great power" that will obviously also have millions of fellow countrymen in Venezuela and that, unlike what the peoples of Latin America think (Brazilians, Argentines, Chileans, Colombians and all the others or almost all the others), expresses another position, because Greece is very close to that country, knows much about Venezuela, more than Spain, more than we, more than Americans, more than Venezuelans. We are therefore already at five different positions ahead of tomorrow's summit, in which we do not understand what you will say on behalf of Italy. And we do not understand the moment of extreme gravity, when the situation is very clear to us: on the one hand there is a military regime that is based on terror. According to the United Nations, already in this week of silence and protest from Pontius Pilate of the Italian Government, there were 40 deaths, 850 arrests (700 last Wednesday only). There are videos showing the tortures and murders perpetrated by the Venezuelan secret police; there are Italians arrested; a million people fled abroad; there are despair and death, especially in areas such as the villages of Caracas, which had so much hoped for in the Chavez regime and which today have fallen into Maduro's darkness. There is a military regime that has been elected in an election called a farce by the international community, with a regime that has been referred by states - it is not a rare event, but it is the first time it happens - to the International Criminal Court. That's the gravity. On the one hand there is an intolerant regime, the election of Maduro which has been declared a farce; and on the other hand there is a freely elected National Assembly which, according to the Venezuelan Constitution and international law, elects an interim President, both on the basis of Venezuelan law (Article 233 of the Constitution) and on the basis of international law. There's no doubt on which side you're on. We do not understand the doubt of the Government, and not of Italy, because it stands on the side of the Italian community in Venezuela, for the freedom of Venezuela. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] It is the Italian Government that is neither with the Italian community, nor with the international community, nor with the Italian people, who have many relatives in Venezuela. [[Senator Ferrara's comments.]] On the other hand, there is a government elected by a parliament freely chosen by the voters. What did Maduro say? You did not tell us that in this House. Maduro has already responded today to the requests of the international community, saying that he will remain in office until 2025 - he was re-elected until 2025 - and that if anything he will dissolve the National Assembly to elect another. The answer has already been there. It is now up to Europe and it would also be up to Italy - before Europe and not after Europe, not covering itself with Europe, but discovering its own face as a country and a nation - to say what it thinks. We believe that Italy must say only one thing: what the Italians ask for in Venezuela, that is, to guarantee their freedom and their survival and for their freedom and their survival we need free and democratic elections guaranteed by the international community; presidential elections (which are the illegitimate ones), and that is what the Italian Government must ask immediately to give comfort to the international community and the Italian community. The louder our voice is - we are neither Greece nor Tunisia, but we are Italy - the stronger the rights of Italians who are in Venezuela and the stronger the rights of Venezuelans who look to Italy as their motherland. That is why we believe that your intervention has been justified by the conditions of this Government and the current majority, but we think - if it allows - that it is inadequate in relation to the requests for help that come from Venezuela and also from the other countries of the European Union, who ask Italy to join together and united in demanding freedom and democracy for all Venezuela and certainly for our community. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups and Senator Steger]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u11	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u12	Mr President, as you know, we would have liked this meeting already last week, in the face of events that were taking place with unprecedented intensity and that had changed the political framework in Venezuela. Unfortunately it was not possible for the obvious difficulties of a majority never divided as in foreign policy: we have seen it in this case, as in the case of missions to Afghanistan. We need clarification and I think that information is not enough; I believe that communications are needed, with resolutions on foreign policy, because our concern is that Italian foreign policy is changing radically. Let me give you the first concrete example. The Italian community in Venezuela, one of the most important in Latin America, expected a clear, clear and close response from Parliament, to speak with a single voice; this voice was not there and this is the most serious element. We are talking about a country that has experienced in recent years a 10% increase in infant mortality, a three-digit inflation, a 95% devaluation in the name of sovereignism, with a new currency that has led to increase the cost of imports - our Italians know it well - and where to find medicines is damn complicated. It is a good thing that, as we heard from the Minister, thanks to the diplomats who are working, you have restored that fund which the current majority cut into the budget law and which we had planned last year, with two million of which we have never seen before. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I say this because we know how to distinguish the precious work that diplomacy does to be close to our Italian community compared to the sensible statements of the leaders of the majority that governs our country at this moment. I say this because we risk abandoning the international community, the community of liberal democracies: this is the main risk I see at the moment, not being on the side of those who have suffered the dictatorship of Maduro in recent years. We are talking about three million refugees, with the leaders of the main opposition parties - I am thinking of the People's Will - have been arrested or are in exile or have asked for asylum in the main embassies of Latin American countries. I therefore believe that, in the face of an episode such as that which happened in recent weeks, with the arrest of the President of the National Assembly and the subsequent freezing of assets and the prohibition of expatriation, the Government of our country should clearly express solidarity and closeness to President Guaidó. This did not mean recognizing it; it meant that we are on the side of liberal democracies, we are with the international community that has decided to condemn those events. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] The other great risk I see is the rupture of our protagonism and solidarity within the European Union. The European Union's ability to speak with one voice had never been measured with Venezuela. Is it true or not, Minister, that after the elections in May 2018, elections strongly contested by the European Union for the absence of international observers, you had found yourself at the Foreign Affairs Council and you had clearly said that restrictive measures had to be taken, while at the same time Russia - which seems to have become a reference point of a majority - recognized Maduro, complimented him and invited him to the Kremlin? Is it true or is it not true that in December, when you supported with your authoritative opinion, the opinion of the Italian Government, the measures of the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Mogherini for the confirmation of the arms embargo on Venezuela, as well as the restrictive measures against 18 people of the Government of Maduro - the same people responsible for the repression against the legitimate and democratic demonstrations of the opposition - at the same time Moscow sent two strategic bombers Tupolev 160 to Caracas? And at a time when, in January, Mogherini reconfirmed its concern for the situation in Venezuela, "Reuters" and "The Guardian" published articles in which they said that Russian mercenaries linked to the Wagner group arrived alongside Maduro in Venezuela. In the face of this situation, which is so damned complicated, we must say which side we are on; we must not hesitate: either we are on the side of Russia, Cuba and their friends or we are on the side of the international community and liberal democracies. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] I know the work that is being done at the Foreign Affairs Council and the work that you do as Minister, but - I do not want to - in the construction and definition of the essential elements of foreign policy have more impact on the statements of the main leaders of the majority. Hundreds of thousands of people have come to the streets, and that was the moment of fundamental fracture that opened up a new phase that the international community has grasped, at least the main democratic countries: the European Union with France, Spain and Germany, and we had to be there to build that common position. Well, in the face of that attempt to build and open a new phase, Italy was silent. Actually, no, it wasn't silent. Maybe it was silent. Instead, we heard different voices: on the one hand, we heard Salvini say immediately that he was on Trump's side - because saying on the side of the European Union is obviously hard on him; it is too much - and, on the other hand, the new political leader of the Movimento 5 Stars Di Battista, omnipresent on television, defined the position of the European Union, which would have been endorsed by Salvini, a megagalactic bitch: a fine diplomatic definition that gives the sense of what today is the message that goes abroad of Italy. I think, then, that the Italian Government must recover. I was not reassured by the statements made by the President of the Count Council this morning: he spoke of free and democratic elections and said that there is no need for investment. I think that at the moment ambiguous positions and balances are not synonymous with balanced attention or an attempt at mediation, but risk being a dangerous closeness to a repressive regime, and we have a duty to say clearly which side we are on. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u15	IWOBI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I believe that in the face of a suffering people there must never be room for controversy, especially in this House, but a search for shared proposals in order to find an appropriate solution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Having said that, I wish to begin by expressing my concern at what is happening in Venezuela these days. The current situation is the result of a serious institutional conflict between the powers of the Venezuelan State. The balance between executive power and legislative power, in fact, is compromised because of a consolidation of the relations between Government and Supreme Court of Justice, which led the latter - in March 2017 - to declare null the acts of the National Assembly for obvious political reasons and to entrust the parliamentary prerogatives to the head of the Government. The self-proclamation of the head of the opposition, as well as the leader of the National Assembly, Juan Guaidó, is therefore only the last act of a clash that shows a wounded democracy and a people who are far from free to express their sovereignty. The quality of a democratic system depends on the respect on the part of the institutions for the free will of the people, that is, the ability to accept electoral defeat and respect the opposition, because it is necessary for all citizens to be given a voice. In this difficult scenario we want to express our full solidarity with the Venezuelan people and especially with our fellow citizens living in Venezuela. Minister, our commitment, as a democratic country, must be directed urgently to support the restoration of democracy and the right institutional balances, respecting the dignity and security of the Venezuelan people. I shall therefore begin to conclude my brief speech, Minister. Given the suffering that has reached a critical and unsustainable level for the population of the country, I repeat the need that in respect of human dignity and of the person, in addition to the timely interventions already carried out and of which we must take note - we are indeed proud to have done something and to have expressed ourselves as we should [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - further action must be taken against a regime which has brought, or is bringing, a peaceful people like the Venezuelan people to the civil war. All this must of course be done respecting the democratic will and freedom, in order to put an end to the pain and unhappiness of the Venezuelan people. It is true that our country has acted and intervened promptly to stem the suffering of this people and our fellow citizens living in Venezuela, but it is equally true that it must continue to act against the regime, which is inflicting unacceptable suffering on the country. I believe that this is the time when we must look at reality in the face and do what is in our power, as a democratic country. Italy is a democratic country that must make its voice heard, as it is doing in recent times. In fact, we must note that things are changing: I believe that our country and our government are working at the moment, not only in the face of a people suffering, but in the international scenery. So, Minister, in conclusion, I would like to call for a further effort to ensure that this suffering ends democratically. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senators, Minister for Foreign Affairs, we had to wait six days and a few hours to have you here. Of course you have a very busy agenda and you have certainly had many important meetings, but let me also quote the Minister of the Interior: First the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Not only the Italian senators first, but first the Italians who are in Venezuela and who, now after now, in these six days in which we have waited, risk their lives because of dramatic conditions for everyone. Our countrymen in Venezuela live in a country where there is no freedom and where it is difficult to supply food and water. Drugs are bought on the black market. We receive messages: colleagues Minuto, Lonardo and others show us the messages they receive from people there. The drugs find them - if they find them, and often they don't - on the black market, with frightening disbursements. Children in the state of malnutrition are numerous, as in the worst poor countries. We are talking about a country that, a few decades ago, was among the richest in the world and still has the potential to be among the richest countries, with a very rich subsoil and an economic structure that was strong. Today, however, inflation - it is difficult to say - is 10 million. In practice, it means that, on average every twenty-two days, prices double. This means the destruction of the economy The situation is so desperate that even those who otherwise would not have taken the road of commitment and descent into the square had the courage to do so, with their empty belly and the risk that at home maybe the squads will come and take away some relatives. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Steger]] I read what one of our nationals wrote to us: I had five relatives gone, and then we found their bodies: killed by the regime. Until some time ago I carried, once a week, a flower on these five graves, now I can no longer do this either. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] That is the situation and that was a year ago. Democratic opposition in Venezuela has waited a long time. That of the President of the National Assembly Juan Guaidó was not a blow to the head: he waited months and months before making such a decision, in the hope that the famous dialogue would bear fruit. After a year and more of an unsustainable situation, eight months after the farce election of the President of the Republic and after the light, water and all kinds of support to the National Assembly, President Guaidó, with the consent of the Assembly, applied the Constitution of Venezuela, which in Article 233 clearly states that, in the absence of the President - and an elected President with a farce election is not a President - the President of the National Assembly provisionally assumes the role of President of the Republic to ensure that elections are reached. Mr Minister, after six days and after having always communicated a lot of ambiguous things, speaking of a wait for the common positions of the European Union, you come here and come back to us again, alongside a bureaucratic detail - for which we thank you anyway - a position that is ambiguous in form - that is in appearance - but, as President Casini said, clear in essence: Italy does not take sides. Italy cannot take a stand and take a position between the dictator and those who - instead - are strong in the Constitution and in the popular support that elected the National Assembly, have done a courageous act for which we must be grateful. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senators De Bertoldi and Ferrari]] Minister, you have told us interesting things and you have told us about the joint declarations made at European Union level, but you have always missed that decisive step taken by so many other countries - you yourself have spoken to us about six countries of the European Union - that is, to recognize President Juan Guaidó as a temporary President in order to arrive at democratic elections. The question you should have answered, without being asked, is as follows: why did the European Union not take this step in its official communications, while France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and others did so? [[Applause from the FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senators De Bertoldi and Ferrari]] Why? The suspicion that it is precisely because of the Italian position, which expressed itself against those conditions, is strong. Similarly, there is a strong suspicion that it was the Italian position - perhaps next to the Greek one, with which there was a common sense of intent on the part of the Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars - that led to the failure to express the deadline within which new elections must be proclaimed. The new elections cannot be managed by Nicolás Maduro, by those who have held the behavior of which we have spoken, expelling, against the Constitution and every constitutional guarantee, the democratically elected National Assembly to entrust legislative powers to a body of justice controlled by itself. Can we put them on the same level? No, we can't do that. Can we trust a president like Maduro as the guarantor of democratic elections? Can we trust a President, elected by false elections, who now calls for the elections of the only body that is legitimately representing the will of the people, namely the National Assembly? We can't. That Italy is overcome by all the bodies, bodies of the European Union and many other countries; that Italy, with so many Italian citizens (200,000 with Italian citizenship) living there (some members of AIRE and others not) and that in Venezuela perhaps has a couple of millions of Italian citizens, do not take sides when our fellow citizens ask us (they ask our representatives, when they manage to go to Venezuela) it really drops their arms and makes us say that this is not the Government that really represents the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Why have you waited so long, Minister? But the worst is that we at Forza Italia and all the opposition had asked that, when you had come (and we wanted you to come much earlier), your communications were that the Senate could vote. The majority prevented it and why we understand it from the position you have outlined, because voting means taking clear positions and not being in ambiguity. [[Applause from the FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and the Ferrari and De Bertoldi senators.]] From what we have heard - indeed, more from what we have heard outside Parliament than from what we have heard here - there should be a large majority in this House in favour of the recognition of Juan Guaidó and the demand that under his Presidency democratic elections should be held in Venezuela. However, we are prevented from voting. I say that there would be a large majority because Minister Salvini was quite clear. It is, however, prevented from voting, a bit like in Venezuela. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] I do not mean that it is the same, of course, but if we accept, as equally admissible positions, that of President Maduro and that of President Guaidó, if we accept that Parliament should be expelled for the benefit of a body appointed by a gentleman who has been elected by farce elections, if we accept it abroad, there is a risk that one day we will also accept it in our country. We defend the freedom of Italy, defend the freedom of Venezuelans and above all defend the freedom, well-being and survival of our fellow citizens living in Venezuela. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In these days the European Parliament has examined this issue; yesterday the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani announced that he was in constant telephone contact with President Juan Guaidó; I would have liked to hear something like that from you or the President of the Council. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Evidently, other ways are chosen. Tomorrow the issue of Venezuela will be discussed again by the European Parliament, which has many other things to do, but has found time. We, on the other hand, in six days can only have a communication, without being able to cast a vote. Tomorrow the European Parliament will vote on motions, among which I think that those of the European People's Party will certainly pass, which explicitly call for the recognition of Juan Guaidó as the legitimate President of Venezuela, pending democratic elections. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Steger]] The European Parliament will do so tomorrow; we not only do not do so, but we do not even have the right to vote. This is not good! [[Applause from the FI-BP and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] This covers us with shame, especially in the face of our fellow countrymen who suffer in Venezuela and who have the courage to oppose a criminal regime, hungry, accomplice of drug traffickers [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD, FdI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] and that then gives oil at a favorable price to a certain great Asian power. This is unacceptable and shameful for our country! [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD, FdI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV). Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his constant willingness to come to Parliament whenever we request it. I would like to point out that this is a constant and, above all, serious willingness, in the sense that it allows it to arrive in this Chamber with a certain, analytical and complete political position, whatever our opponents may say. The Movimento 5 Stars supports the majority and therefore the action of Government; that Government of the change that has brought Italy as leader in Europe - I would like to reiterate, as leader [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] - promoting the unitary line of dialogue, national reconciliation in Venezuela and the political and diplomatic solution and, above all, calling strongly on the European Union and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to finally and concretely commit themselves to European foreign policy. It seems to us, in fact, that so far he has never done so. We have learned from his words that on the Venezuelan crisis the Italian Government confirms that it has chosen a responsible position, also in line with what Pope Francis expressed a few days ago; I believe that this is a point to emphasize. The Venezuelan crisis, dear lords, is not a crisis of the last hour, as you want us to believe; it is only yet another escalation of a geopolitical context characterized by a condition of internal instability that has lasted for at least twenty years. In 2015, this crisis became extremely acute, even unfortunately due to the fall in the price of oil; a word that none of you have mentioned in this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then I do it: the price of the barrel collapsed in 2015 from $100 to about $40; this obviously led the country in an inexorable crisis, even economic. It's the truth. My colleague Senator Grassi, together with our legislative office, has explained - and the Minister has confirmed it - how in reality in this moment, in the face of a great social crisis, there is also a serious constitutional crisis, which sees precisely the Venezuelan Constitutional Charter forced and interpreted by all the actors in their favor, drawing respective legitimacy. It is precisely from this fact that the latest news of these days is born. My colleague, Senator Pacific, pointed out to me that, in the face of serious political instability and unstable domestic policy scenarios, as unfortunately often happens in South American countries, there are in fact rigid, consolidated, efficient and monitored electoral systems, as is the case in Venezuela. We therefore hope that these electoral systems can be used shortly - as the Minister told you - if the country finally decides to go to new free elections that allow Venezuelans to decide their future, rejecting dangerous ultimatums and international interference... [[Comments from PD and FI-BP Groups]] Mr Ferrari (PD). What are you talking about? Shame on you! LUCIDES (M5S). ...which, as history teaches us, leads to destabilisation, bloodshed and war, which they do nothing but create more chaos and violence. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Clearly we believe that the Italian Government must be responsibly linked to the fate of our compatriots, but not only, so also to the Venezuelan people (I remember that there are 150,000 Italian residents and over 2 million Italian-Venetian), in providing - and this the Minister told us - diplomatic and logistical support to our fellow citizens. Last but not least, I have not understood why you refuse to accept the fact that we have provided funds and medicines for our fellow citizens. [[Ironic applause from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). You have to say which side you're on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi. LUCIDES (M5S). But I would like to quote a figure. I did a test this afternoon, and I found out that we have 35 international treaties in foreign policy with Venezuela; these are agreements signed with Venezuela and ratified by our government. The most recent, Senator Casini, is from 2010, so a few years ago, while the most dated is even from 1861. So I'm telling you, instead of yelling at urgency, we should all have a self-examination. Make an examination of your conscience about what you have not done in the past legislatures for this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is easy to put on colored pins today; but in the last legislature we did little and nothing for that country. [[Comments from the PD Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u20	Senator Casini, be good. Senator Lucidi, let's get back to today.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u21	LUCIDES (M5S). Yeah, let's get back to today. We are not supporting the status quo in Venezuela; we are simply saying what we have always said, namely that we reject all kinds of external interference, by virtue of that principle of self-determination which we have always supported. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Ferrari (PD). There's a regime! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Democracy is knowing how to speak and how to listen. There have been six consecutive speeches, with an education that seemed strange to me in this House. Let's finish nicely. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, democracy is good... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Ferrari (PD). It's responsibility! LUCIDES (M5S). And I am not surprised that, even when we mentioned our closeness to common intentions with Greece, they were all "exploded." Look at this; let's think about who invented it, democracy. They should think about this, too, these gentlemen. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I simply thank the Minister and I will use the words of my colleague, Senator Ferrara, who suggests something very common sense (what I think is missing from you). Italy's position is very delicate: hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen risk being involved in a conflict with uncertain results. This imposes even more on us the greatest responsibility and moderation, and certainly not tone of ultra, as we have heard in this House today and a few days ago. MALPEZZI (PD). Ultrà? LUCIDES (M5S). Today we do not know what will happen in the near future in that country, but we have names and places in mind. We all have them in our heads, these names and places, and they are: Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria and Ukraine, just to name a few. In none of these cases before the recipe of the states that are being guarded against the principles of democracy and prosperity has achieved the desired effects. Everywhere, unfortunately, external interference has triggered bloody civil wars that have lasted for years, devastation of infrastructure and cities, destruction of institutions and order that, albeit precarious, allowed a better life than the one that came after. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Urso (FdI). Like Cuba and North Korea! LUCIDES (M5S). I am convinced that the Venezuelan people will soon be able to rise peacefully from this economic and institutional crisis, but we must do so... [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Mr Urso (FdI). What are you talking about? Even in North Korea then there is peace. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Urso, don't worry. [[Senator Urso's comments.]] Senator Urso, for the second time. LUCIDES (M5S). But we must ensure that this can happen, and that a possible change of regime, an institutional change, is orderly and peaceful. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Then go vote. Elections! Mr Ferrari (PD). It's embarrassing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, the session is still under way. AIROLA (M5S). Shut up! Stop! [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u22	Senator Airola, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u23	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u24	I inform you that, subject to agreements between the Heads of Group, the sitting on Tuesday 5 February will begin at 4.30 p.m. and not 9.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u27	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening I would like to bring a health issue to the attention of this House. You'll think I'm referring to some Southern Region, but you're wrong: even in the North there are problems, or there might be, for bad choices. In this case, I am referring to Piedmont, which has only recently left a health station. Despite the problems that exist (in the past few days many news spoke of First Aid overcrowded and patients forced on the stretcher for days), we have, however, recognized excellences not only at national level, but at European level. I am referring to the maternal and infantile pole of Sant'Anna and the Regina Margherita hospital, which are currently merged into the unique company of the City of Health with the Molinettes, and other garrisons of the city of Turin. Well, the current regional government has planned to relocate all facilities to the future Health Park, which it intends to build in the Lingotto area. It could also be a good idea to build a new structure with modern and safe buildings where to allocate the best of Turin's health care, except that over the years this project has seen the number of beds dropped overall and in particular those of the maternal-infantile area, which would go from the current 656 to 284, with a reduction of more than 55 percent. It is unacceptable to think that in a few years' time the citizens of Turin must be in a position to be unable to deliver their children in their city or that, when they are born, they must take them elsewhere in order to receive indispensable care. Having witnessed the closure of hospitals and birth points in recent years, the Piedmont Democratic Party is now preparing to strike yet another blow at regional public health, but we are not. The 5 Star Movement has always opposed this destructive policy and will continue to do so. For this reason I signal to all the Turinese, and not only to them, that initiatives are under way to show clearly to Governor Chiamparino and to all the PD the opposition to this devastating project and in particular the invitation, this Saturday at 15, in Piazza Castello to the event "A bow for Queen Margaret and Saint Anne" because the excellences must be defended, strengthened and not dismantled. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u30	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the parliamentary term I have taken the floor periodically to denounce and highlight, unfortunately, criminal facts of mafia origin that take place in Foggia and its province, where it has been operating for decades what is now known everywhere as the fourth Italian mafia. It is a ferocious mafia that has a pervicacious control of the territory and that inspires a deep fear between citizens and economic operators. This climate of real terror is aimed at perpetrating trafficking of drugs and weapons, as well as subjecting economic operators to extortion, as well as other crimes. In recent months, investigations by the judiciary and the law enforcement forces have led to the arrest of numerous and apical representatives of the clans of the capital city, as well as other arrests that have affected the clans of San Severo and Manfredonia. But nevertheless, or perhaps even as a result of these arrests and therefore the resulting lack of criminal power, there have been in recent weeks seven bomb attacks against commercial activities, three of which have occurred in the last six days and the last one last night. The criminal will is clear: psychologically prostrate citizenship, incite terror among traders in order to be able to cut them comfortably. These episodes follow a long series of bombs that wanted to intimidate even the Carabinieri, because I remind you that there have been in recent months of the attacks on two carabinieri, one in Cerignola and one in Corato, or even municipal leaders: I remind you that to the detriment of an executive of Monte Sant'Angelo that is a municipality that had been dissolved for mafia and had returned to the vote. At this moment the commissions of access to Manfredonia and Cerignola are operating to verify any mafia infiltrations in these administrations. The situation, as I have tried to explain to you, is extremely serious and I believe it is time for the State to put in place all the principals and also the men necessary to counter this vicious mafia. It is necessary, in our opinion, to establish as soon as possible a court of appeal section in Foggia and the DDA and to this end the Movimento 5 Stars has submitted a bill of which I am the first signatory. It is also necessary to establish a dislocated section of the DIA, the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate, as the Movimento 5 Stars has requested since January 2016. I shall end by appealing to the Minister of the Interior, the Government and all the political forces present in Parliament: I ask all of you to take note of this very serious situation and to contribute to the adoption of all the necessary measures. Every day that passes is a day lost in the contrast to the mafias, to these ferocious mafias, and every day that passes without action is a favor to the criminals. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u33	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to renew my call to pay attention to the issues of agriculture in Apulia, in particular the issue of the frosts at the end of February-early March that hit Apulia. It is still a topical problem because the amendment tabled by myself and other Members of the European Parliament to the simplification decree was declared inadmissible because it did not relate to the subject of the decree itself. I am sorry for the farmers, who represent a category of silent workers, which is the backbone of the Apulian economy. Without prejudice to the alleged responsibilities charged to the Puglia Region, however, it is necessary to find alternative solutions in order to restore them from the damages suffered in a short time, having been damaged about 90,000 hectares of agricultural areas located in the provinces of Bari, Barletta, Andria, Trani and Foggia. The oil sector, in 2018, lost around 117 million euros of gross salesable production, with the consequent degradation of the infrastructures related to this activity. Recognizing therefore the sensitivity of the President of the Senate, of the minister Centinario and of the President of the Count Council, I call for an authoritative intervention, in order to finally overcome this burdensome issue, in support of the farmers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u36	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to speak about my city, Milan. A few days ago, Mr Salvini went there and I thought that, four months after the commitments made, he would explain how he intends to intervene in Via Bolla, where there is an unacceptable situation of degradation and illegality. The Minister had undertaken to do some things, but nothing is happening and we have come to the point that the citizens of that neighborhood have made an exposure to demand the seizure of an entire condominium occupied by many illegal activities and abusive occupiers. Or, since we have not yet had the opportunity to receive an answer to the question - and I take this opportunity to inform you, Mr President - I was hoping that, coming, you would finally explain to us what you intend to do in order to take the last step - which is unfortunately up to the police forces - of the intervention necessary to restore the area of Rogoredo, where that famous grove is located, which has become the central trading centre of the whole Lombardy region. The Forces of Order are needed to free him definitively, because by now the City of Milan has committed itself to restoring the whole environment, together with Italy Nostra, but the Minister has not talked about it. The Minister came and spoke about the increase in the ATM ticket proposed by the Mayor of Milan, among other things referring to something he is obviously not aware of. In fact, he does not know that tickets represent a tariff that serves to cover the costs of a public transport system that seems to me to be working well in Milan, nor that commuters would not be involved in such an increase since subscriptions would remain at an unchanged cost or that there would also be the possibility of a single ticket to go beyond the borders of the city, where today it costs more to travel. In short, perhaps it would be better if the Minister of the Interior, sooner or later, decided to play his role and, instead of dealing with ports, ATMs and tariffs, let everyone do their job and take care to ensure the safety of the citizens, in this case Milanese. [[Applause from Senators Malpezzi and Valente.]] I know that he is escaping from one press conference to another, but this is the task of the Minister of the Interior: this is his job, if he really wants to guarantee security to the citizens; if instead he wants to use the issue exclusively propaganda, know that from now on we will be here to remind him of the security problems he has promised to resolve on the territory. It wouldn't be hard to do that, it would take a little will on his part, but he doesn't solve them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-86.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.42 p.m.
