ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 30 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u3	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 30 May 2019 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that the President of the Republic, with his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, after consulting the Council of Ministers, has accepted the resignation from the post of Deputy Minister and State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which has been approved by the honourable Member. Dr. Edward RIXI. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u4	I communicate that on 3 June 2019 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law of 30 April 2019, No. 35, introducing emergency measures for the health service of the Calabria Region and other urgent measures in the field of health.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u7	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, the Budget Commission, which is analysing opinions on the amendments of the rapporteur and the Government and the numerous sub-amendments received, has not yet completed its work. Obviously there are still some problems to be resolved and so I propose, informally felt the Leaders, to update our work to tomorrow morning, at 9.30 a.m. In this way, we will give the Budget Commission 24 hours to complete its work, avoiding the convening of the sitting and the reunion of ourselves here in a few hours' time, without yet having the full text of the opinions of the Budget Commission. I am therefore speaking on behalf of the majority: the proposal is to reconvene the House tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u10	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to take note of Senator Patuanelli's statement that there is a majority and that the majority has a common position: that of postponement. In fact, it is not exactly what we have been told, because I was present in the Commission. The Commission is not discussing or analysing anything. The government, in fact, was absent and prevented the start of the work. I therefore consider the situation to be very serious. The Government has approved two decree-laws in a collegial way, therefore with the responsibility of the political forces that support it: I refer to the decree growth and to the decree unblocks yards, that they would have to leave Italy. In fact, we are witnessing a very sad spectacle - I would say little worthy of a developed country - in which this Government and this majority bear witness to their total irresponsibility towards the country and to all citizens. Irresponsibility and little dignity: it is in these terms that we should clarify and underline the behavior of a wretched majority that is bringing the country to the abyss. In the last few days and hours we are witnessing an unworthy spectacle, a shot and often leaves outside the institutions and Parliament, to arrive you do not know where and you do not know why. The internal reckoning of the majority and the desire of the political forces of the majority to profit - I repeat, to profit - from the Italians, their daily lives, their families and their economy bear witness to total irresponsibility. We denounce this very strongly and ask the President-in-Office of the Council to come to this House immediately to report, because there is talk of government and majority crises within Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Press conferences are not held and words are not wasted in the wind, perhaps without even receiving an answer and without having the interlocutors in front of them. Mr President, I believe that the process of this measure is undermined by external will which does not concern the matters contained in it, as well as those of the decree-law under discussion today in the House of Deputies. I believe that there is a latent crisis, which is now evident to all of us, which must be brought to Parliament. You evaluate the timing and the manner in which this House is re-convoked. I certainly believe that today we need to convene the Conference of Leaders - I know that for you and for my fellow Leaders - to understand what is happening today in the country, in what risk we are putting our economy and, indeed, the holding of our democratic institutions. We have a duty to do that. Then, if there is clarity, we will schedule the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u13	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, as has already been mentioned, the work of the Budget Committee is not merely a technical delay. I was just told by Senator Pichetto Fratin that the meeting of the Commission was convened at 9 a.m., but the representative of the Government showed up at 9.30 a.m., i.e. when the suspension should have taken place for the beginning of the session of the Assembly. However, the problem is not half an hour, but it goes back to days and days. The problem is this year of government, in which the normal development of the measures is now the following: decree-law immediately in force and, then, clashes, delays and postponements, to the point to give rise in some cases (I refer not to any decree-law, but to the budget law) to observations by the Constitutional Court. This is not just an institutional problem. This measure, for example, should have been used to unblock yards and speed up work. We have made our contribution to the Budget Commission and to the other relevant Commissions, and we are ready to give it to this House, with further suggestions and proposals. However, in the meantime, since these rules are subject to changes - we do not know which - often radical, proposed by the government itself or by the majority, there is the most complete uncertainty about this matter. The intention was to speed it up, but - on the contrary - everything stops. It would have been normal to table a draft law in order to hold discussions, not on measures in force, but on measures which enter into force at the end of the legislative process. Instead, in this way, we have rules in force today that may be completely deleted by an amendment, perhaps not, we do not know. In the meantime, we'll postpone. The President of the Count Council, in the face of this situation which clearly - as is well known - is not only linked to this decree, he reported, but not to the places where he should have done so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The speeches he made yesterday afternoon, more or less agreeable, he had to make them in the Council of Ministers, in the Senate and in the Chamber: these were the institutional places to give such speeches (and possibly at the Quirinale). The press conferences are fine, for Christ's sake, but he said he wanted institutional respect. Well, according to the institutional procedure, first of all, the measures are discussed in the Commissions and in this House and not in conciliations that we do not even know where they are happening, and secondly, if there are problems of government crisis, they are being exposed in Parliament and not at a press conference. So we also think it is appropriate for the President-in-Office of the Council to come and report to Parliament, so that the Italians can know not what they want to say in the newspapers, but the proposals for the next few days, what measures will be called into question and what will not, what purpose will the measure take in our examination? Anyone who wants to work must know what standards to refer to. Of course, the Conference of Leaders should also meet to determine the progress of the work. President Patuanelli's grace in advancing his request does not remove - and he did not hide it either - that there are knots to be dissolved. These issues should be dissolved in the institutions, with the votes. There are rules, majorities can be formed, and it would not be a tragedy if not all the rules were approved by the contractual majority. It would be respectful of the institutions and Italians who voted and instead do not want to do so. But this doesn't work for us and it doesn't work for the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, a bitter note, once again, because it now stands out - and you, Mr President, I think you are as aware of this as we are - the total lack of respect for Parliament's Chamber and Senate classrooms, including as regards measures. The measure we are examining is dragging on. We have been in the Commission a long time. Everyone, more or less, has made their contribution. In some cases the contribution was appreciated and in others absolutely rejected. We felt, as usual, that we could conclude. Then we could determine the majorities on the individual amendments and instead we were faced with what is now the figure of this majority, i.e. the reciprocal provocations or a proposed amendment on which we expected a reaction. This does not just mean that we have just arrived at the fruit and that the majority has arrived at the fruit. In this, Mr President, Parliament's lack of respect, once again, we must stigmatize it. As far as yesterday's press conference is concerned, I understand that we are getting used to going to Palazzo Chigi without going to Parliament, not only from this parliamentary term but also from the previous ones. He resigns as President of the Council through press conferences. In this case the crisis is actually announced and the crisis is opened through a press conference. At some point, in my opinion, we must give the signal that we must stop, that we have now gone further. Even the spectacle of the game of cerino, because this is what is happening, not only humiliates Parliament but raises a very serious problem. We have seen an election campaign in which we used to play with those who provoked the most to take more votes, now we have the post-election campaign to see who's in charge. In all this, the real issues that concern the citizens and the country are actually considered and despised, because so it is, just as Parliament is despised. So - let me make it brief - I think it is appropriate at this point to convene the Conference of the Leaders and of course I can only ask the President of the Council - given that he said at his press conference, once again, the great respect of himself and the institutions - to respect also the Members. I think it is absolutely appropriate that in this crisis (if there is, if there is recovery, if it goes on, if it drags on, if it ends), however, we finally return to what has not been heard for a long time, that is, to the parliamentaryisation of the crisis, because I believe that it is time to do so. [[Applause from Senators De Falco and Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u19	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I must tell you, on behalf of the Group of Brothers of Italy, that, with all the good will of this world, it is difficult not to comment in a worrying way on what is happening today in Italy and in this House with regard to the fate of the Government. I believe that we have often shown a sense of responsibility for the institutions, for those who represent them, even for urgent measures which should be adopted not in the interests of one party, but in the interests of everyone. This decree-law, which was declared very urgent six months ago, is still languishing in the Commission and we will never know if it will come to this House. Beyond the rules on the so-called unblocking-boats, there are other rules that we care about, regarding the situation to be resolved in the earthquake zones. Unfortunately, we are concerned and we are concerned about something else. Mr President, we must note that the request of the majority, made by Mr Patuanelli, is to go to the 5th Commission in the dark, without knowing what is the direction of the majority and the government. Are we going to the Commission to discuss the measure, analyse it and understand what we are voting on or going to the Commission to take some time, waiting for Conte, Salvini, Di Maio or who for them to decide whether the government goes ahead or stops? That's the question we're asking. I believe that the dignity of the House, the Senate and the senators is waiting for an answer now, because there is an entirely replacement amendment tabled by the League which is in fact a political slap at work done mainly by the majority in recent months, because it says among the lines, in a very explicit way, that everything that has been done before is useless or almost, is useless and wrong, and that therefore we have to start almost from scratch. This politically - even a child understands this - is the opening of a government crisis. What I am asking you, Mr President, is for you to speak to the Government (which is also present in the Chamber), so that the Government can tell us now, not tomorrow morning, whether we are going to the Commission with the hope of bringing the measure to the Chamber or we are going to the Commission in the dark waiting to understand, in one hour, in five hours or ten hours, whether the Government still exists or no longer exists. I believe that you, Mr President, can interpret this request on behalf of all the senators, because we have been waiting too long, but also our patience, which has been very abundant in these times, is coming to an end. So, Mr President, our request is to know whether we are here waiting for a measure to be analysed and discussed or whether we are just waiting for the government to decide whether to survive or not. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u20	Mr Senators, you await the requests of the majority and the opposition, during the day I will convene the Conference of the Leaders, also in relation to the progress of the work of the Budget Commission. I'll let you know the best time. The sitting is then postponed until 9.30 a.m. tomorrow morning, with the same agenda, unless it is changed at the Conference of the Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u21	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-117.ana.u22	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, June 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 9.55 p.m.
