ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1063, already approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to express our views on the conversion into law of a decree-law which, well before being placed on the agenda of this House, has raised a great deal of controversy in the Italian public debate. In fact, the polemics have not been lacking, and as it is right that it is for a assembly representing the popular will, there is no shortage even today. There are, however, some things that are missing, clearly, and of which we absolutely do not feel nostalgia: the desperate savers are missing, the families are missing torn by the awareness that they have lost everything they have tirelessly accumulated during their working life. You told us that we must be ashamed because the populist government approves exactly what had already been approved in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, the difference is substantial: today we do not have a bank of political color or a bank in which family relations are interwoven between the ministers of the government in office and administrators present or past of the same. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unfortunately, when we talk about banks, we always have the impression that something unclear is happening because in the past we have experienced moments in which we did not understand where the reality ended and where the comedy began in Italian public life. Fortunately, we have left behind those moments of which there is to go unproud. We all know the fundamental steps of the Carige affair: many had long understood that the situation was irresolvable, others understood it in November when the institute failed to sell a subordinated bond on the market and for this reason it was necessary to intervene the banking system with 320 million paid in Carige from the voluntary scheme of the Interbank Fund. The stages, I repeat, we all know them, just as we know that the cornerstones of the decree-law - that is, the guarantee, the intervention of the state and the sharing of burdens - are the most effective immediate actions that the system of European norms in which we are inserted allows us to implement quickly, removing the spectrum of the bail in which it has done so much harm to our savers. It is precisely the speed with which the Government intervened, by issuing the decree-law in strict turn after the extraordinary administrative measure adopted by the European Central Bank, and in substantial continuity with it, that has allowed the protection of both the savings and the jobs of the employees of Carige, which amount to 4,200 units. Our banking system must be protected, on this we are all in agreement, and it must be supported because without a strong national banking system, rooted in the territory and able to provide support to the activity of companies and families, we risk losing one of the most important flywheels and pillars of the Italian economic recovery. Let us not forget, moreover, that we are talking about a bank of a particularly fragile territory, that after the tragedy of the Morandi bridge needs a form of support to get back on its feet and start again, and if the Government had not intervened we would have lost that fruitful bond that exists between Carige and the territory of Liguria. A bond on which the trust of the Ligurian productive nuclei must return to build well-being and productivity, and in order to do so there is a need for a return of the bank to a state of health sufficient to deserve that trust without which it is impossible to restart. Of course, Mr President, the decree-law is only an instrument and we have seen how badly it has been used in the past to protect bankers rather than savers. If the Bank has reached such a level of suffering as to cause the institutions to intervene, someone is guilty of it and must pay a bill: it is our role as a representative of the people's will. I wonder how it is possible that once again reckless and reckless management of a bank's resources, the use of loans on which the shadow of the customer system has fallen and a constant work of investment in sectors often wrong have been able to perpetuate for years, despite the fact that there are precise realities in the field of banking supervision. Once again, we have to ask why it has not been possible to avoid yet another collapse of a strategic bank for the local and national economy. Where were the vertices? Where were the senior officials, who according to the Constitution must safeguard the savings of Italians? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The answers to these questions cannot be neglected anymore. Those who fail must pay and, in particular, those who have to manage the savings of Italians must pay twice. From Ligurian and representative of the Ligurian citizens, I greet this measure with satisfaction and return home with a high head because the citizens know well that, despite what the oppositions say, we are very different from those who preceded us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Moreover, it is enough to ask the associations of savers cheated by Banca Etruria and the banks of Veneto, for whose compensations in budget maneuver were allocated 1.3 million euros, if they would have preferred in their cases to deal with the speed and seriousness of this Government or not. The answer has already been given to last year's polls. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u6	She's registered to speak Senator Botto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as a Ligurian citizen, I live with particular involvement in the case of Banca Carige and if I speak here, to talk about the decree-law of our Executive, which we are converting to law, it is because I am convinced that what we are doing as a Government is the best thing to do, first of all for the citizens, Ligurians and all of Italy. The measure is an intervention in support of a bank totally different from those of the Government that preceded us, because it is timely and there is no gift to the bankers: the capital paid by the State, in guarantee of the bond issues of the institution, will have to be returned. Moreover, the bank will not be able to distribute dividends throughout the duration of the State intervention. We are therefore, once again, taking urgent action on the crisis in a bank. For this reason, to whom from the opposition disputes against this provision I ask: what have you done in the last nine years to avoid the banking crises of Carige, Etruria, Monte dei Paschi, the Venetian banks and all those who have ruined thousands of families? Our government, in the maneuver, has put a billion and a half euros to help the shareholders cheated by the banks. Cipher, I like to point out, 15 times more than the $100 million begging that had been foreseen by the Silver Gentiles Government. [[Applause from Senator Leone.]] Today, once again, we are repairing the damage you have done by closing our eyes to a shameful management of banks, supervision and crises in general. There is another novelty compared to the past, which makes me proud of the law that we are discussing today. Thanks to an amendment of the 5 Star Movement, signed by Currò, the Ministry of Economy and Finance will transmit to Parliament a report every four months to make public debtors of a certain weight of the Ligurian bank and to make it clear in good time which and how many credits of the institute risk going into suffering. I remember my reaction when I read the names of who, having received easy loans without returning them or doing it only in part, with the complicity of the executives, buried the bank. I was outraged and, after reading those names, the reaction of public opinion was the same. Names known to us Ligurians and not only, because they are not ordinary people, but the elites of so-called entrepreneurship, politics and society, in the Region and not only. Finally these names are not covered by politics, these people are not protected by a complacent government. As we have already done and as we will continue to do with this amendment, we will unravel the links between banks and politics; links which, even in the recent past, have damaged the management of Carige. Do you know why this makes me outraged? Because if on this side we have the usual known, on the other side there are millions of ordinary people in Italy who have neither "saints in paradise" nor friends in the banking institutions, to which not even one euro is lent by the banks, whether it is a matter of doing business, or whether it is a necessity of the moment. The costs of the crisis were poured by the banks on their customers and translated into more expensive loans and credit restrictions. Our economy was founded on bank credit and this scenario is one of the main causes of the biggest post-war crisis, that of the decade 2007-2017, with a 10% GDP collapse, a 25% decline in industrial production, investments decreasing by 30%, dozens of businesses failed every single day, unemployment at levels above the EU average. Today in Italy we are trying to solve old problems, but we try to do so with new solutions, given the failure of those who preceded us and who today would like to give us lessons. The decree-law adopted at the Council of Ministers on 7 January, which we are examining today, is intended to protect savers as a precautionary measure. We offer a guarantee of up to 300 million on the loans obtained by Banca Carige, whether collected on the market or by Banca d'Italia. As mentioned, in case the bank fails to return them, the state will intervene; in this way it will be easier for Carige to collect liquidity and ensure the bank's operations. Only if Banca Carige fails to adapt its capital requirements, even through a merger, will the State intervene directly by recapitalising and guaranteeing accountants and savers. In this case, however, it is quite clear that the bank would become public property, that is, citizens themselves, and we will not give this bank, as has been done in the past, to another private bank for the symbolic figure of one euro by charging the bill to savers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bagnai]] The message must be clear for everyone: the era of private profits made with public money has ended with us. The Italians, exactly a year ago, asked us to change the way we do politics; they asked us to do it concretely, not just in words, and the measure in question is the proven proof that we keep the word given, because if it is true that we have inherited a country system in rubble, it is equally true that we will never tire of remedying the damage done, of rebuilding a country on the solid foundations of ethics and dignity of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u8	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u9	Mr President, I will take my time not so much to explain the content and make considerations on the text of the decree-law under consideration, which I believe is certainly acceptable, reasonable and appropriate for the protection measures it proposes to the extraordinary administrators of Banca Carige and to enable them to work best in order to succeed in resolving the fate of the Institute after the fate that has confined it to the well-known situation of serious crisis. With regard to the causes, it is useless here to repeat the responsibilities that have crossed over the years; the judiciary is proceeding criminally against the former summits of Banca Carige for known crimes and we will see if the investigation of criminal responsibility will help to shed light on what already, before even some sentences, appear as the usual Italian music near the economic, financial, banking power to power groups and too often to political power. Apart from that, what aroused particular curiosity and attention was for me the circumstance of having understood how a decisive event took place last year, namely the outcome of the so-called stress tests carried out by the ECB. I am referring to the outcome they have had and how these stress tests are conducted. Frankly, I am not an expert on finance and banking, but I am very humbly trying to acquire expertise in the Finance Committee over the course of these months. Well, when I read that in 2018 the ECB considered to outsource these verification operations, these stress tests which, as we know, are procedures by which banks are simulated against so-called adverse scenarios to verify their soundness, I was particularly concerned that the European Central Bank had entrusted the execution of these stress tests to the world's largest investment company. I am talking about the largest global society, probably BlackRock, which is certainly known to many of you, dear colleagues. Maybe, though, some of you may not have focused the profiles of this circumstance. BlackRock is an investment company that also advises private banks, as well as governments and states, that have to meet the requirements of the same stress tests. I am obviously referring to a situation of conflict of interest which seems to me as big as a cathedral. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] How can this be done by a company, which legitimately plays its role among the world's leading players in the financial market, the management of deteriorated loans, equity participation, participation in the boards of half-world corporate administrations? I would point out that BlackRock, an American company, of course, based in New York, directly manages a $6,300 billion fortune. It quotes that someone has enjoyed comparing to the GDP of entire nations such as France and Spain as a whole. It manages, indirectly, through equity holdings in companies that are everywhere, the financial sector, transport, energy. In Italy, Generali, Banca Intesa and Unicredit, in order to remain in the field of banking insurance, are involved with equity participations of this investment fund. This indirectly manages about $20,000 billion. I repeat, $20,000 billion. So, he's a colossus. He's probably one of the masters of the world. One of the players who, in the global field, acts, probably, determining the fate, not only of small or large banks, but of entire nations. And I don't blame it on that. I am not pointing to BlackRock as the devil, because in the economic system in which we are immersed, ultra-capitalist, we accept that it is so: however, that he is aware of it. Compared then to the fact that the ECB entrusted the stress tests of a group of banks, including Banca Carige, in 2018 (whose results I think were published at the end of last year), I ask who knows more than me if this, perhaps, could have affected the vicissitudes that affected Banca Carige precisely in the last part of the year. We know that the extraordinary assembly of 22 December saw the resignation of the directors, with everything that happened in the following weeks, and the timely and providential intervention, in my opinion, of the Government, which proposed the decree-law under consideration. BlackRock is not limited to consulting and holding significant percentages in the main and vital assets of our as well as of all countries, but also acts in the market of NPLs, non-performing loans and deteriorated loans. We know that in the restructuring plan proposed by the extraordinary administrators, these days under consideration, the operation of the so-called derisking is also planned - these English terms make me smile! - i.e. the reduction of the risk for non-recoverable or hard-to-due claims. It should be borne in mind that BlackRock, although it is certainly not the only company, is one of the largest companies in the world that also move in the management of this type of deteriorated credits. Draft of circumstances certainly already known to the operators of the field; I do not say anything new: the Italian specialized press in the month of December - "Il Sole 24 Ore" for example - has found this situation. I have seen that other colleagues, and the President of the Commission, of whom I am a member, have already highlighted this fact. Well, I think it is appropriate to explain this, also because, paradoxically, who up to now had the courage, the opportunity, the opportunity, the desire to raise the issue with the ECB was a person from whom, perhaps (in my opinion), it was not expected. I am speaking, Mr President, of the former German Finance Minister, today President of the Bundestag, who has spoken with the European Banking Authority to ask for enlightenments and explanations on this truly abstruse circumstance, which shows a conflict of interest which, frankly, even a six-year-old could find. We have therefore had the answers from the President of the European Central Bank, who is in charge of verifying the banking scenarios and will entrenched behind justifications such as the fact that they control that the various branches of BlackRock - BlackRock investment rather than BlackRock consulting - are separated; the teams that operate separately; they make declarations of responsibility, respect for privacy, or rather not use the information known through the examination of the bank's balance sheets in order to benefit from it. Well, I think that we must perhaps be a little naive, or too good, if we expect companies, which make legitimate profits on the financial markets, to be able to operate in the best - I would say almost holy - respect for the rules. One risks, in fact, touching the naivety. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I see that the time available to me is about to end, by appealing to our Government, to our Minister, but also to Parliament. On the other hand, why does the President of the German Parliament have to do this by bringing the voice of a Member who raised the issue, and we in Italy, a country that is perhaps more suffering from monetary and financial policies by the ECB than others, must shut up? Is this not a great opportunity to raise the question that is there, objective, as big as a house? On the other hand, we are distracted from chasing the quota, both for necessary interventions, as in the case of Carige, and when we go after the sterile controversies that are seen in this House: This decree-law is the same as what we did when we were in the government. Ah, it's not the same. Let's get to the point and let's find the way to really engrave to free our country - and maybe not just ours - from situations that I find truly incredible, and that must change. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u10	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure involves urgent measures in support of Carige, the savings bank of Genoa and Imperia, following the rejection of the balance sheet, resulting from the action of the Single European Supervisory Mechanism and the decision of the shareholders not to proceed, at the December meeting, with the capital increase. A measure providing for measures to ensure the liquidity and asset strengthening of Carige. The Ministry of Economy and Finance is authorised to grant the State guarantee on the liabilities of new issues up to a nominal value of €3 billion and a preventive or precautionary recapitalisation mechanism of up to €1 billion is set up. This is an inevitable intervention, just as inevitable were the interventions in support of the Venetian Banks and Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Crisis outbreaks should be extinguished before financial imbalances in the banking system occur. Carige is a solvent bank, as has been said before, with over 500 bank branches, 4,200 employees, one million customers. A climate of confidence must therefore be restored. In fact, only in this way can the provision of credit to the real economy be preserved and, therefore, maintain employment and avoid the appesting of our public debt. Surely, as we have been able to read and verify, the crisis in Carige is due to management problems. The succession of changes in the government structure has certainly not done good to the bank. But the most important figure is represented by the enormous mass of deteriorated credits, the result of a serious economic crisis that has characterized also the Ligurian economy, especially in the fields of the marine transports and real estate. However, the point of reflection is as follows. Once and for all, the hypocrisy of the present majority must be overcome. The measure we are examining is identical to what was approved in 2016 by the central-left government. It is not a small factor, because around that measure was built a demagogic campaign of attack on the center-left government. If we read Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016, we realize that this is a perfect copy and paste. It took ten minutes to approve it, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers convened at night so that the news did not get too loud. In 2016, representatives of the 5 Star Movement and the League, who opposed the measure, echoed the words expressed in the parliamentary classrooms: Don't give the money to the banks! Today, an identical measure is quickly and furiously approved. The two parties that did not then vote on the measure are the same who today approve of an identical one, denouncing the pure demagogy of their institutional attitudes at the time. There is no political opposition on these issues. Systemic banks must be saved in order to prevent the economy from collapsing and to save the aspects that characterize the real economy, especially the jobs. It is a concept that should always be valid and never become a subject of electoral contention. It would be useful to understand now what the future of Carige must be. The Minister, in his hearing at the Joint Chamber and Senate Commissions, called for a market solution. On the other hand, Vice Prime Minister Di Maio has repeatedly praised the advantages of a state bank. I believe that, in the light of the experiences recorded in this country, the state commercial banks have certainly not shone for efficiency or ethics. Nationalisation must be the last and, in any case, temporary. I believe that in order to give Carige a future we must make a clear analysis of the situation in Italy. Many institutions are subtracting and appear less and less interested in buying Carige. Above all, in order to encourage aggregation, which can be a way out, we must isolate the amount of deteriorated credits, which is still a major problem. In this sense, as provided for in the improvement proposals that we have submitted to the measure, it is necessary to extend the State guarantee scheme on the securitisation of suffering (so-called GACS), that in our country has already allowed to reduce the volume of the deteriorated credits, bringing it from 360 to 200 billion euros. In addition, it is necessary to support the Company for the management of assets - the SGA - which is the financial intermediary that deals with the recovery of damaged claims. Financial stability is a necessary condition for the protection of savings. The liquidity deposited in the bank is often - almost always - the only economic protection available to citizens, especially those who do not have many opportunities for diversification. It is therefore essential to protect savers and to ensure that there is certainty of being reimbursed for those who sign bonds or shares without a full understanding of the risks. In addition, there is a non-secondary and very important aspect, which is the completion of the banking union. In my opinion, there is a strong contradiction between supervision and decisions on crisis management, which has a European connotation, and the guarantee of financial stability, which is a strictly national issue. The banking union must therefore be completed because it is the key to rebuilding citizens' confidence in the European Union. The aim must be to build a system that guarantees the same protection to savers throughout Europe. Only in this way can the vicious circle between banking crisis and sovereign debt crisis be severed. That's the only way we can deal with the crises by playing in advance. That's why I think it was wrong to attack Bankitalia and Consob that you have promoted in recent months, especially in a period of great financial volatility in the markets. I believe that the best goal we must give ourselves is to guarantee this country a path of growth. It is essential that, in parallel with the attention to financial problems and the care for financial stability, there is an important growth strategy. We will be faced with a change of scenery in the coming months. We will have a fundamental aspect, which is the conclusion of the European Central Bank's support for our banking system (with the quantitative easing ending). In June, our banks will have to start paying back the liquidity instruments offered by the Central Bank. The spread is constantly higher than the European average. I believe that with the recession, with the data we have and that will characterize 2019, we will run the risk of increasing suffering. In my opinion, then, we must commit ourselves - and you must do this especially to the Government - to a strategy of growth, abandoning the policy of degrowth hostile to investment and you must commit yourself to relaunching infrastructure and a policy for the implementation of the banking union. We need choices and not recriminations. We need to look to the future and not look for scapegoats. There is a need for a period in which the ethics of responsibility and, above all, the centrality of the responsibility of the decision return to prominence. It is no longer possible to continue the search for scapegoats: it is always the fault of someone else, once in Europe, once in the past. It's a wrong path. We shall vote for this measure with conviction, provided that this issue no longer becomes a demagogic element of the electoral dispute. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u12	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you three aspects: the reason why we are in favour of this decree-law; the way to resolve the systemic crisis in the banking system; a wish for Italy. We agree with the decree-law, because we have always been: we have always been in favour of resolving and stabilising the crises of the banking system, because it is interdependent. Without a sound banking system, there are no families, there are no citizens, there are no businesses, there is no economic and social growth in the country. Therefore, the nonsense that has been said in relation to this decree-law, namely that a few months ago it could be in favour of banks and a few months later (i.e. today) in favour of savers, cannot be heard. Article 47 of the Constitution is very clear: savers help themselves, protect themselves if - and only if - the banking system is solid. This must be said because it is a fundamental principle. We no longer admit to hearing nonsense that calls into question the fundamental pillars of our Constitution. As for how we have come to this point and how we can get out of it, it is not trivial, because everything that the Government, or at least a part of it, has done so far has created enormous instability. We heard very constructive words - even yesterday from Commissioner Vestager - in this House. We have heard that we can and want to change the bail in; that we can dilute the legislation on NPLs; that we want to move towards the construction of a unitary banking system, which looks not only at European supervision, but also at European unitary stabilisation. But how can we build all this by continuing to argue with everyone in Europe, with all the states? It is an unbearable attitude, apart from the fact that it really goes in the opposite direction to the only one useful to Italy. On the political side, we heard some absurd boutades, which splashed the spread and lost 300 billion to the Italian system. The capitalization of the banks has dropped drastically, by a third, because of the spread, and there was no financial storm, none of it, but there were only nonsenses that were constantly being said against everyone and without an economic foundation. I say one of them, just to give the idea of the immensity of such nonsense: it has been said that we could not repay 250 billion loans to the ECB, or that there was a plan B to get out of the euro. These are very damaging claims. At this point, I want to put a strong enough question. If all this hurt the banks in Bonis, it does even worse to the banks that, like Banca Carige, had suffered for years and were in difficulty. Here there is a responsibility and not only of management - of course the judiciary will investigate it - but also of those who lead the country. At the legislative level, there is much to be done both at an upward stage towards Europe and at an Italian level, and I imagine that the Commission of Inquiry into Banks can serve this purpose. On the contrary, the idea that we have made ourselves so far is that it can only be a continuation of the talk shows or a place to inquisite the responsibilities of the past. It is not up to politics to do inquisition, but it is up to the judiciary to determine the responsibilities. It is not up to politics to engage in vigilance either. We have seen, however, that the Government wants to question the choices of the summits of Banca d'Italia and impose questionable appointments in terms of independence compared to CONSOB. Bank of Italy and Consob are independent agencies, to guarantee the system, to guarantee investors, to guarantee savers, and therefore it is not tolerable, according to the Constitution and for Italy that we know, this type of interference of politics. This is not constructive: it is an attitude that has strongly called into question a banking system that had to be rethought with great foresight. The fund of refreshment for savers: a great slogan; a pity that - as has been confirmed in the informal letters and of course yesterday by the Commissioner - it is a rule contrary to the rules that we all know and that the Government knows about state aid, because it creates unjustified competition between banks, as is natural. Why, then, did they not want to adopt much more reasonable solutions, such as having certain praises for Consob arbitration? You wanted to monetize him from an electoral point of view? They seem to have figured it out. They don't even vote for you anymore. We come to the wish, which can only be for an Italy that must be seen as a unitary and interdependent system. There is no dichotomy between workers and businesses; there is no dichotomy between savers and banks and there is no government that can stay in the majority and can direct the country that does not have clear that working for citizens is working in favour of an interdependent system. What we have heard so far, a constant being against, is the role of an opposition force. If you are unable to rule the country, do what you are able to do: return to the opposition. We vote for Carige. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pinotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u14	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our banking system has been going through a terrible crisis for nine years. The cause is primarily due to the economic crisis. In the face of the difficulties faced by households and businesses to meet their debts with banks, they produced deteriorated loans, which, between 2013 and 2015, grew exponentially in the bank's balance sheet, to the point of becoming explosive. The accumulated losses from year to year have ended up bringing the assets of some banks to levels that no longer guarantee their solidity. This is what happened to the Venetian banks, MPS, the boats of Central Italy, like Bank Etruria, and today to Bank Carige. But the Italian banks are solid, said up to a year ago the former Premier, today colleague, Matteo Renzi. But there is more. We cannot hide that another cause of the crisis in the credit system is the very serious administrative and management errors of governance; and in this case, too, the policy of the past governments is not free from responsibility. In fact, the interweaving between politics and banks is known to all: loans granted to big entrepreneurs, friends of friends, who have not returned them, creating precisely those deteriorated credits that then led to the failure of some credit institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With the introduction of Community Directive No 59 of 2014, so-called resolution of banking crises, which entered into force in 2016, a principle has been introduced that the State no longer has to take charge of the rescue of the crisis credit institution. If a bank fails, the first ones to be called into question must be the shareholders, then the bondholders and only in the end the accountants with deposits above 100,000 euros, while under 100,000 euros are guaranteed by an interbank fund. It's called internal rescue, in English bail in. There is a third way, always provided for in the European directive, to save a credit institution: the precautionary recapitalisation by the State; in fact a nationalisation, which can be done only under certain conditions. Well, this is one of the measures provided for in Decree-Law No. 1 of 2019, introducing urgent measures to support Banca Carige and its savers, which today we are called to convert into law, together with the coverage of Carige's bond issues: a cover allowed by Community law. Well, let's remember that Carige is a historic Ligurian bank, that no one would ever have expected to arrive at the police station, with the resignation of all the members of the board of directors at the end of December 2018 and beginning of January 2019, after the change of as many as four managing directors and three presidents in just three years; fact that it has not allowed those important initiatives of reorganization that would have been necessary to face approximately 3,5 billion of deteriorated credits. Well, with extreme urgency and necessity the yellow-green government had to intervene in order to secure the bank, but above all savers, with a discipline that at the moment has not involved any disbursements for the State and, therefore, for Italian citizens. It is 1.3 billion, allocated to enable the Carige Bank to stand on the market and rise again, but above all to avoid the bail in. It's public money that hasn't come out of the state coffers yet and hopefully they'll never get out. In fact, at the moment this guarantee has proved costly for the institution. The internal rescue, so-called bail in, will therefore be the extreme ratio for this Government. It is therefore a different operation from that made by the Renzi Government, which first ratified the bail in, then applied it and finally, only after having seen the great damage done to savers, it intervened with a public investment of 20 billion [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , of which 3.9 in favor of MPS. This is public money, a little covered by all failed credit institutions, so much so as to leave so many savers on the ground, that we of the yellow-green government had to compensate with an allocation of 1.5 billion euros. Therefore, there is no contradiction of the Movimento 5 Stars when it says that the state must not save the banks, because the predisposition of public guarantees to the resolvability of Carige was dictated precisely by the need to prevent the activation of the bail in. In fact, the State must avoid its application and prevent damage to savers. The attacks of political opponents, even against this measure that we are about to adopt, hide much more serious political responsibilities and inconsistencies. The European directive that provides for bail in, transposed into our legal system by a law of 2016 in force today - in our opinion - runs counter to the Constitution and, precisely, to the provisions of Article 47 on the protection of savings. Therefore, the preventive intervention of the yellow-green government, in the case of Carige, to avoid the bail in is more than just right. The real question, then, is: why did the previous Government with a PD majority vote the bail in? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Why couldn't he make himself heard in Europe? Why was this directive not contested when it was time to incorporate it into the Italian legal order? After transposition, in fact, time has been spent trying not to trigger the bail in. The same governor of the Banca d'Italia Ignazio Visco invited the then Renzi Government to start a revision of the EU directive, but nothing has changed since then and the law has remained that. There are so many Community directives that Italy does not apply, even if it pays sanctions that today - we can say - would have cost us much less than all the billions spent so far to save savers, with instead irreparable damage to the confidence of the banks by the citizens. Finally, Mr President, I wish you a happy birthday. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u16	Senator, thank you for your best wishes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Economic and Social High School Margaret of Castelvì, Sassari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u19	Mr President, I should like to speak briefly. On the controversy that, in fact, the decree-law under consideration copies the measure taken, at the time, on MPS, I have nothing to say, in the sense that, if the government has thought to do so, it can be there. The problem is that that time the decree was bad, while this time it is good. That's the dichotomy that doesn't work. Another thing I would like to point out is that this decree moves perfectly in the wake of the European directives. Directive No 59 of 2014, so-called bank recovery and resolution director (BRRD), is literally respected. Therefore, in the face of statements of the kind: • We do not accept Diktat of the European Commission • we follow exactly the path that the European Commission has imposed [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] And the path involves a series of passages, finished which enters the precautionary recapitalisation of the State, that is, the burden sharing, the sharing of burdens. This means that shareholders, junior bondholders and senior bondholders will be reset in order. There will be the usual bloodbath that we have already assisted with Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. I would like to point out another aspect. The decree-law under consideration is as timely as the previous one, responding to a previous colleague. Very simply you get to this point when the shareholders' meeting certifies their own inability to raise fresh money for a new recapitalisation. When the reference shareholder - in this case the Malacalza family - says that he has no more money or that he does not want to get out of it if he does not understand where the bank wants to go, it is clear that at that point one must intervene. The moment is that: it is neither before nor after. The policy does not choose it: all the directives, the performance of the shares and the shareholders' meeting choose it. In this case, a simple look at the balance sheets from 2013 onwards - it is six years - reveals twenty-four quarters lost with three 2.2 billion recapitalizations. This makes it clear that that is the time when shareholders surrender. And the important thing to say is that the decree-law intervenes exactly where others intervened. The real questions we have to ask ourselves are others: the first is when you want to stop with the operation of putting money in the banks and making the recapitalisation; the second is what you ask the banking system. These aren't trivial questions. I would also like to add that the fact that the State enters the share capital does not mean that the bank is nationalized. The bank is nationalized only when the State makes a residual takeover bid of the shares that are missing and asks for delisting, i.e. removes the bank from the stock exchange list and makes it become a company that is no longer SpA, in the sense that it is no longer in its statute and mission the objective of producing profit. Only then can it be freed from the concept of public companies, analysts' estimates and beating analysts' consent on the profits of subsequent quarters. The real problem is that the banking system is in systemic crisis, because lending money is an activity that has been doing nothing for so many years. This is the real question to be addressed: since lending money does not pay, banks have had to find other ways to use the enormous mass of savings that the community has poured into us with higher-performance financial instruments. Just look at the synthetic profit and loss account - if you look at the full balance sheets, as I did for MPS, you realize that not everything is fully reported - to understand that the fact that a bank burns liquidity at that speed cannot be attributed only to the deteriorated loans. The way in which money is burned is too fast: it means that there are leveraged financial instruments, hedge derivatives or non-coverage derivatives, quoted or outside regulated markets, which cause a erosion of the colossal heritage. Where is at least a regulation of financial instruments that can use a bank? The European Commission would obviously disagree with this, because it would go against the sacred market. However, in addition to the necessary separation between traditional bank activities and business activities, it is also necessary to put a brake on what a business bank can do. Since 1997, from the crack of the LTCM fund, we have seen how the derivative bomb can explode without even giving us time to understand what is happening, because everything moves very quickly: when you have a lever effect of 1,500-2,000, the explosion of the underlying causes a virtually immediate explosion of the derivative. Is the government doing anything about this? In the last legislature there were so many projects of what was then the opposition to the separation between business banks and commercial banks and for a certain type of regulation. This is the fundamental pillar on which we should move, otherwise Banca Carige will only be one of the many banks that have financial problems. I don't name names, but anyone who wants to go and look at other banks' profit and loss accounts would see that those in difficulty are enough. As long as they are medium-sized banks, the system can tolerate this, but to what extent can a liquidity injection be accepted in the banking system to protect its stability? There are larger banks, for which the latest capital increases have been above EUR 10 billion, which cannot reasonably bear a further capital increase in the event of supervisory asset erosion. All of these are questions that need to be answered before the markets answer for us. A final consideration - and I conclude - regarding the bail in: the BRRD is almost a bail in; only the bloodbath of the currentists is missing over 100,000 euros. The guiding principle of each of us should be that tax payers should not pay for banking crises but, as the Commission acts in the name and on behalf of the Union as a whole, they mean taxpayers throughout the European Union. Let us remember what the President of the German Central Bank said at the time: he said he did not want payment from German taxpayers for someone else's banking crises. This is what we must have in mind: the bail in and the BRD are calibrated on the fact that others do not want to pay for our banks, after they paid for theirs, because the German banking system was supported with a lot of public money. After getting all this, they say it's enough and now no one has to do it anymore because it's not right anymore; first you do it and then you tell the others not to do it. These are the big issues I'd like the government to come up with. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u20	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u21	Mr President, on behalf of my fellow Members of the Brothers of Italy, I should like to join in congratulating you on your birthday, which we warmly express to you. [[Applause from the FdI and M5S groups.]] Having said that, I am speaking from a more technical point of view at the moment, especially with the hope that this House will respond positively to some of our amendments. It is now quite clear that the decree-law under consideration - it is a copy and paste of those of the last legislature, as I will say in more political terms, on the occasion of my explanation of vote - is now voted across the House and the Senate, which I can also understand. No one has actually wanted to amend this decree-law. Brothers of Italy do not agree on this passive acquiescence, but would like to try, at least in some details, to bring you a constructive contribution. I therefore address above all the political forces closest to us, such as the League, but also to the Movimento 5 Stars. Just to try to better understand the critical spirit that has moved you especially in the previous legislature, five-star friends, we have drawn inspiration from some of your amendments to the previous decrees of the XVII legislature, and therefore also from your criticisms and proposals, which we have tried to place also in the decree-law under consideration. We therefore want to see how you will respond to this, because we are asking for more answers, although the decree of course - as previous colleagues have meant - must maintain a banking system and protect the savers, employees and the workforce of the banking company in question. First of all, we are talking about the large insolvent debtors: why do you not accept our amendment which wants to have clearer information about the main perpetrators of this bank's failure? Of course there are those who have granted credit too easily, and therefore some managers of the bank, but also those who have benefited most from the failure, keeping substantially in their pockets the money, millions of euros to the detriment of the community. This amendment reflected the position of the Movimento 5 Stelle when he was in opposition: I would like to see whether, even today that you are a majority, you will remain consistent with what you said, Mr M5S, by approving the amendment of the Fratelli d'Italia. Still in the merit and technicality of this intervention, what do we mean by the fact that the public will go to save and benefit a private company, a bank, but then will be maintained freedom in the compensation of managers and employees? Some measure that is worth contingenting on the bonuses, compensation and extra compensation of managers, perhaps taking into account the public employment line, would then make sense when asking the public hand to intervene in this context. Here too, five-star friends, I challenge you to be consistent with your past. We've got and you've talked about NPL. This is an issue on which we should reflect, especially on their system. What do we mean? We, the Brothers of Italy, ask that clarity be made on this system, that it should not be used for budgetary policies or sold out and then enrich some financial groups. Above all, always with regard to NPL, we also propose an amendment in the simple interest of the honest debtor because, if there have been - and certainly there will be - debtors who have profited from this situation, there are - alas - unfortunately the small debtors, the honest ones, who have certainly not benefited, but, indeed, nocution. At a time when NPLs are being sold at broken prices, we then ask that small businesses and citizens should be able to buy them back, with a small integration, from the assignee. It is a need for honesty and clarity towards our small businessmen and our saver citizens, who see instead often lucare behind their backs, and then find the need to pay entirely that debt that the bank has yielded to 8, 10, 12% of its value. I come to the last aspect of the chain characterizing the more than 30 amendments that the Brothers of Italy Group proposes on the measure to our examination. We are talking - for example - about the tax deductibility of losses for those who have been involved in the disruptions of the banks: I am referring above all to companies. In this respect, there is an amendment that is of cross-cutting value; we have companies that have full-value banks in their belly shares that cannot tax-deduct until the administrative forced liquidation process is completed. Why don't we try to make the measure something that will enable the companies, already suffering from this situation, at least to recover fiscally the loss due to the de facto zeroing of their share in those banks? On these aspects, points and amendments we ask our colleagues in the Senate, political forces and, above all, the Movimento 5 Stars to be consistent with what was said and proposed in the 17th legislature. I'll be waiting for you at the gate. I want to see you reject the amendments that reflect your position in the last parliamentary term. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u23	Mr President, I would like to be helpful in the reflection of the Assembly, helping me with the quotation of the last editorial effort of Minister Savona, Minister-in-Office, candidate for the Presidency of Consob; a candidate debated, probably not questionable. The text he offers us has the title "A polytheia for a different, stronger and fairer Europe." We should have the patience, strength and intelligence to find even in matters of banking and about the decree-laws the soul, its polytheia. Always having regard to the a bit difficult effort that has put Savona in the field - it was produced by him and then rebuilt by the Ministry with a particular generosity compared to the editorial effort - I want to try to make an effort without burdens for the reflection of the Assembly. I would like to address a few questions: did the Carige Decree-Law serve? In what terms? Was it needed exactly right now? Is there an alternative? Were there any priors? One should produce an honest answer to these questions, which is not from the fire of reason. On the subject of banks, ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed and suffered the fire of reason, especially in the last parliamentary term, the one before the present one, for which I would have liked to be present, because the ability to say now on this subject, if I could rely on the experience as a spectator, on the fire of the reason of the last parliamentary term, I would have certainly been more effective, more convincing, more capable of even imaginary communication. Now I don't want to carry out the fire of reason. I mean, there was no other initiative than the one that was hired. That is why the parliamentary groups will vote, for the most part, in favour, totally convergent, except for a few distinguished people, who will, however, produce a vote of responsibility. We know in fact that Banca Carige is not exactly an element of embellishment of the city of Genoa: Banca Carige is one of the infrastructures thanks to which we will have to re-determine the resumption of the flight, of the wide city of Genoa, after the story of the Morandi bridge, that it has not only concerned a bridge, but it has represented precisely the fall of confidence in the future. Bank Carige had suffering and difficulties. We have heard three authorities in the Commission: Minister Tria, Deputy Director-General Panetta - I read this morning, candidate for the Directorate-General - and Consob's unnamed vicariate. We have also followed the point of view of some academic figures, who, all of them, have told us that the decree-law in question is in perfect continuity with the previous one, about which we have spoken. It serves, then, this provision and serves with its characteristics. However, we need to know that the restructuring process has only started, costlyly as a precaution, on public finance; but, to complete the path, the market will need to take charge of the regeneration of this bank. It was wrong when it was said, by figures who have a role of government in this majority, that the way out would be nationalization. We talk at random, if we speak in these terms. We must ensure that the market produces the solution, knowing that legislation can also be of tax facilitation - for example - as the audits in the Commission have suggested: to work on a standardisation that facilitates, from the tax point of view, processes of reaggregation, enlargement and restructuring. Probably, in fact, the size of Banca Carige must also be rethought with respect to the territorial scenario, safeguarding its ability to be a bank of the territory. We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not be surprised, by providing additional instruments for vigilance, to ensure that there are no longer those weaknesses that have been paid and suffered in the past. We must ensure - for example - that those who have suffered the misfortune of a bank that has experienced bad luck, savers, are compensated, but that the compensation rule is not plundered by politics. That too was said by Minister Tria at the hearing. The government's regulatory concept worked; then Parliament plundered it, for electoral reasons, and now there is a phase of tiredness, there is the swamp, so much so that Commissioner Vestager has also come to tell us that there are difficulties on the procedure to be activated with regard to the refreshment of betrayed savers. What's it gonna take? Let us not put political controversy, ideological reading into it. Let us avoid setting reason on fire when we are dealing with fundamental institutions for the economy, for society and for the future. Giorgio Ruffolo said that the money deposited is not always the devil's dung: when the money deposited is functional to projects of life, ambition of enterprises and territory, it becomes spring, function. We know that it is for this reason that the Constitution established, in Article 47, the protection of savings, its respectful custody, its protection and, on the other hand, the control of the use of credit. On this basis, respect for the delicacy and gravity of this subject must keep away the spectacle of the fire of reason, which is exactly what happened in the last parliamentary term. We are voting in favour today. You guys in the government should have done it the other time. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to vote on a measure that we would never have thought could bring not only the signature of our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, but also their political support and the vote in favour after the accusations of recent years against the governments of the past and above all the previous Executive, guilty of having saved a bank: I am referring to the notorious decree Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Today, however, we find ourselves voting not only a decree-law that protects a bank of the territory, a national bank of our country, but also an identical measure, similar to that on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. It is surreal but true, and this is the case in this House, where for months now we have been aware of the backwardness and the U-turns on so many issues that the Movimento 5 Stars is putting into practice in relation to commitments, promises and what had been said in the past. As other colleagues have already said before, the text is identical to the measure on Monte dei Paschi di Siena and there was also fun from a media point of view when, comparing it, it was seen that it is just the same and similar. It is therefore a really fun and undeniable issue, but I would like to point out, as we have heard from other speeches, that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars claim that the decree Gentiloni Silveri on Montepaschi saved a bank, while today the one launched by the Government supported by them saves savers. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Will it be a matter of views? We come from paraphrasing the Canadian philosopher Marshall McLuhan, who claims that a view can be a dangerous luxury when replacing understanding. This discourse, however, does not interest us so much; it is not a matter of pointing the finger at those who make these reversals and reverses all the arguments; we are interested in the positive, constructive point of this story, because we look at the fact that today also the Movimento 5 Stars has finally discovered what can and must be the fundamental role of a bank, especially of a bank of the territory. This is important and we hope that it will be so especially in the immediate future that the behaviours are always consistent with the line taken by the Count Government today in favour of the banks. Instead, especially in December, we witnessed statements made every day by the majority and the government with which we burned 300 billion capitalization and savings of Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The point today is precisely that, ladies and gentlemen: the problem is not to protect the individual case of the bank or in the future other credit institutions: the real question today is to protect the savings of Italians always and in any case. That is the fundamental point. We need not only commercial measures, but planning measures to support the structure of our banking system. This is important, but in these hours and days we note that the positive intentions of the majority in fact do not come true. In this respect, I would like to mention only two cases which in recent weeks are in the attention of Parliament, the Government and above all of the country. You promised to repay the famous savers who were conned, you made a point of propaganda. To date, however, you are still struggling with the implementing decrees that you absolutely cannot prepare and the savers have not yet seen a penny of savings. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You've blocked this condition. Another situation still blocked today and which was an instrument, not only to protect savings, but also to support the real economy of the country is that of individual savings plans (PIR), which with a clause included in the budget law today you have managed to block. In two years, 23 billion euros of private savings had been raised. In five years, with what was the tax relief, 150 billion euros would be raised, which went to finance the real economy of the country. You were able to block these instruments too! You are able, today, to really combine all of them! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As I said, this measure is limited today to dealing with the Carige case. You did it with the copy-paste of a decree, which is the past one, the much criticized decree Gentiloni Silveri on the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. It is absolutely not expected, today, what is an important reform, precisely for the security of the banking sector and for the protection of the savings of Italians. To go towards the conclusion of my speech, I would like to mention some data of what is today the Italian banking system, very strong, very important and very structured of our country. In Italy we have 538 active banks. Over half of these, 295, are cooperative credit banks and popular local banks. These are data from 2017 taken from the official reports of the Bank of Italy. Over the last eight years, the banking sector has lost around 44,000 jobs. Banking workers have fallen from 330,000 to 286,000. In 2008 the number of desks, which are important in our territory, at the service of citizens, also decreased by 20%. The bleeding - alas - of jobs will continue, because there are exit plans, especially of large banking groups. In the North, he lost one employee every ten. In the South, two employees per ten of the banking system were lost. It is a huge occupational tax, which we must try to avoid at all costs, because within the banking world there are also families, citizens, men and women working for our country. It should also be pointed out that the financial sector generates a huge significant share of our country's gross domestic product. These are data from 2015. Our banking system has produced about 5.7% of national GDP, second only to the United Kingdom, and first to France and Germany which have produced 4.5 and 4.1 percent. Therefore, a sound banking system, a strong banking system, which, as I said, must not only protect Italian savers today, but also generate gross domestic product. Therefore, we must look at it with confidence and we must act with confidence in the sector. I shall conclude, Mr President, by reminding everyone how Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. Members of the House have done so before, but this does not mean trusting the Government, but trusting the savers and the role of the banks, especially in the banks of the territory. It made me listen especially in some speeches of colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars who come from that territory explain the importance and protection, today, of a bank of the territory. Therefore, we will vote in favour, but we will do so precisely for the benefit of savers and in favour of what must be the role of banks like Banca Carige, which are an absolutely important heritage of our system, a fundamental heritage for the economic fabric of our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the public guarantees to save Carige, an obligatory road dictated by the political necessity to prevent the activation of the bail in, the notorious BRRD directive, transposed by Law No 114 of 9 July 2015 and by Legislative Decree No 180 of 16 November 2015, according to which the State can intervene in the rescue of a bank only after the internal resources, including current accounts over 100,000 euros and subordinated bonds, have been drained to offset part of the losses of the institution in crisis. A rule that clearly conflicts with Article 47 of the Constitution. A few days ago, to my question in the Senate Finance Committee on this directive, which was the mother of the expropriation of savings, the Minister for Economic Affairs Tria replied that the then Minister, Mr Saccomanni, current President Unicredit, suffered German blackmail. Italy has accepted the rules on the internal rescue of banks under the blackmail of Germany, which said it was ready to denounce a banking system close to bankruptcy, except then mitigate, after a few hours, its already known statement to the professionals. In recent years, Mr. President, without the knowledge of Bankitalia and Consob, the scandals of Cariferrara (with the suicide of former executive Paolo Bonora of 28 July 2015); the cheerful trusts of the Banca Popolare dell'Etruria, with dubious credits to the clientele for 1.69 billion euros; 770 million suffering and the suicide of Luigino D'Angelo, the retired person who had lost the savings of a whole working life; the five percent lace on loans, loans and trusts that Marche Banks granted to friends and associates; the unfair commissioner of Carichieti and Bene Banca, Vagienna; the Banca Popolare of Vicenza, which inflated the value of the shares up to 62,50 euros, obliging by methods extortly to become shareholders; the scandal of Veneto Bank, which repaid 11,388,973 euros, corresponding to 279,482 shares of Veneto Bank at the value of 40,75 euros each to Bruno Vespa, extoring 1 000 euros, had paid for the Banca billions of Monte Alex inflate, which had made inflates for him. Just today, ladies and gentlemen, today, the six-year anniversary of the suicide of David Rossi, who left his wife Antonella Tognazzi and his daughter Carolina in desperation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unbeknownst to those who, well paid, would have the duty to prevent crac and bank failures, there has been the careless management of credit and savings cured by the resolution of the four banks. In order to avoid other cracks and failures it is necessary to reform a vigilance that has not worked and that, in addition to the damage, has added the mockery of appealing the crooked as "functional illiterates" because not enough experts of financial products cheat, proposing financial education as a remedy, like a snatched victim of the rift or an armed robbery, accused of not having the bodyguard, the license of port of arms or of not having attended a course of martial arts. It is necessary to combat so-called vigilant intermediaries in order to avoid placing on the markets, behind incentive systems, fraudulent financial products and toxic bonds placed to the unsuspecting savers; to avoid revolving doors between vigilants and vigilants for at least six years; to tighten the criminal rules for the crime of bankruptcy; to repeal the premiums and good exits to bankers who have caused the crac; to pursue the responsibilities of those who have left the savers at the mercy of themselves. Collegi, from my side it is said "carta canta": I have in hand a document, dated 30 December 2015, reserved, sent to the directors of the Bank of Italy, that at 31 October 2015, twenty-one days before the resolution of the four banks, out of 623 billion bonds, some subordinated bonds, therefore subject to expropriation - as happened a few days later - were in the hands of the savers and only three percent to the funds. I repeat: only three percent of the funds. The collapse of Banca Carige had been discovered by the judiciary, with the arrest of the vice president of the Italian Banking Association Berneschi, the former administrator of Carige Vita, Fernando Menconi, and five other executives who took large sums away through the acquisitions of property and corporate holdings at inflated prices, accused and tried also for association with criminals, money laundering, fictitious header of goods and illicit export of money abroad. Mr President, I would like to conclude by hoping that in addition to the Committee of Inquiry into Banks, Government and Parliament will approve reforms to prevent immunity and impunity for the creators of crac and bank failures (quantified in 100 billion euros, charged to poor people and savers), with the real dole of Bankitalia, which, while knowing very well and for some time of the subordinated securities expropriable in the hands of families for 46.1% (i.e. 31 billion euros out of 67), has done nothing to prevent the great stalemate to the detriment of savers and families. Mr President, I hope that Article 47 of the Constitution, which must be the polar star for us all, and especially for savers and the people, will no longer be betrayed, but respected. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u28	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u29	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, I'll switch seats because otherwise I have to hold the microphone, which doesn't work well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u30	Please, Senator Bagnai.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u31	BAGNAI, f. f. rapporteur. Mr President, here we have a more stable situation, rather than that shift which was a bit of a left-wing metaphor than what happened to the Italian banking system after the rescue interventions of those who preceded us. Here - I repeat - we have a more stable situation. The debate was very interesting. I followed her with great participation and taking notes. I would like to begin with a clarification. In my short report I did not note that there was no need to explain the issue of the decree-law in question. I noticed that I didn't feel that there was much interest. I have allowed myself, as rapporteur (which must be a neutral figure), a very small hint of controversy, explaining this lack of interest with the fact that events are widely known, or, at least, so it seemed to me. Then, in fact, because of some aspects that emerged in the general discussion, I had the feeling that something about what concerns us today (especially some detail of what has been mentioned in relation to previous events) deserves a clarification. So, perhaps, I will allow myself to do so, always addressing you, Mr President, as the Rules of Procedure ask me. I also want to say that I apologise for the fact that people in this House often do not pay attention to those who speak, because there is something outside that we do not know, but that we know. I am referring to the fact that our work is summed up by the citizens in the formula "to make laws" (in this case, a law to convert a decree-law). However, perhaps we should all make a greater effort to explain to the citizens that the laws adopted in this House are the result of a long and complex political mediation, which takes time, which are often also those of this House. I mean, if some colleagues are around the House talking to some other colleagues, they don't do it because they disrespect me, but they do it because they need to reach a point of drop on something that we might be dealing with tomorrow. I also say this because, where someone is watching us, it is important that he knows that we work and that there are so many ways of working. Closed this methodological premise - I apologize if you have stolen time - I come to the merits. I have to say that although some Members have pointed out that the general debate is a more technical moment than the explanation of vote (which is obviously a more political moment), this debate has also had political implications. I would like to start with one of these, which has characterized our oppositions in Utroque, that is, the left-wing opposition and the right-wing opposition. Both have reproached us for not being able to behave well on European tables, for not being able to protect alliances, in particular because we would insult our allies. Now, I'd like to make a very serene consideration. Those who preceded us were often - to use a pale euphemism - even obsequious towards our so-called allies, who honestly do not know what they are in the European framework, since we are a very composite family and who, according to important historians (I think of Jones, but they could be mentioned many), sees precisely in its diversity the sign and the cause of its relative success compared to other areas of the Planet. So who are the allies, I don't know. I, like many others, have witnessed in the past years a strange weather phenomenon on Rome, which is a rain of Légions d'Honneur; and then I also witness rather little consequent attitudes with our condescendence towards the Diktat who came from abroad. Let us now think of the hearing of Commissioner Vestager, who has been mentioned here several times, as a sign of the availability and maturity of the European institutions, and of their willingness to meet us. I wanted to speak in English yesterday, but I was told that it is not done, because we are in the Italian Parliament. But I'd like to translate Vestager's reply to my question. I translate it into Latin: "Innocens ego sum a sanguine hoc," which is that of Pilate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Since here one always cites the fact that universal suffrage is a risky thing, because by universal suffrage Barabbas was saved, then fatally the mind runs to that historical episode. And yesterday we saw Pilate. Yesterday Pilate what he told us: "Do you know how it went? Unfortunately, once the market for suffering was not there, and so you gave it up at shredded prices, putting your banking system in crisis. There is now, so things are getting better now. Many greetings and thanks." In other words, "You've been used as guinea pigs, your business." That is what I heard yesterday in the House of the 4th Commission where the European Commissioner Vestager's hearing took place in the Joint Chamber and Senate Commissions. If anyone has heard anything else, I am obviously willing to confront myself politically. But the point is that, if we really want to reason in terms of national interest, then we should all make an effort, and I promise to do so for my part (in an ideal world it should be so), to avoid that, when there are complaints from abroad, inside it enjoys it in order to use them tactically and instrumentally against the opposing political part. This thing hasn't worked; it's been in Charles VIII's time that it doesn't work. I'm forced to repeat myself. In order for certain calls to the European institutions to be credible, they should be accompanied by this: that our oppositions, at the moment when the country is insulted - and in September it was, because we spoke of a country in the grip of so many small Mussolini - joined us in the firm response to this type of attitude and did not accuse the Government if for the first time it reacts. I realize that this is a discontinuity, as well as a discontinuity, in my opinion, the one that is introduced with the Committee of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry has been mentioned, because they have been raised a little from all issues relating to supervision. Someone called it a scene, but I would very calmly urge my opposition colleagues not to evaluate our proposals on the basis of their experiences. The previous one does not seem to me to have concluded much, and perhaps there was one reason: it was a Commission in which a certain political party judged itself on the policies it had conducted, the Commission's opinion was positive, that of the voters we know: the end of the broadcasts. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Now there is a real work to be done and because we all agree that there is a problem of standardization, a problem of application of standards, a problem of how supervision has been exercised - and I would like to address this issue more widely in the explanation of vote - help us to ensure that this Commission of Inquiry is not a scenery, participating constructively, because it certainly is not in our intentions. They have also been evoked - and I am very grateful to Senator Grimani who has done so - the contradiction and asymmetry that exist between supervision that is increasingly being carried out at European level - as has happened in the banking field, because the process is now almost complete (we remember that it is also happening on the subject of supervision of financial markets) and interventions that then remain in the hands of individual countries. How do we think he can survive and not crack a system based on such asymmetry? Who is in crisis is decided elsewhere, compared to how to remedy the crisis there is a nice wash of hands and we have to intervene. Among other things, it should also be said that as far as the general issue of supervision is concerned, we should be the promoters in Europe of a general rethink of the approach that is being adopted, because the approach based on risk assessment in the determination of capital levels just yesterday on the "Finncial Times" was seriously questioned for the simple reason that it is largely based on bank assessments. Since the banks are in crisis when they are unable to assess the circumstances, relying on their assessments to decide which bank is in crisis is obvious: a significant underestimating of the risk that is then reflected in the emergency of accidents such as those that we have to deal with here today. There is therefore a problem of logic in the approach and this is a cultural problem that calls all of us; it is not a problem of the right or the left, on this I believe we will agree. What is right or left is perhaps the will to impose a vision of national interest on supranational tables, always within the framework of the usual consideration of framework that either Europe proves to be an efficient place for the mediation of different interests, or demonstrates that it has no particular reason to exist. In fact, solving our problems with bilateral or even multilateral conflicts is something we have always done in Europe. I am always very sceptical when the conflict is demonized: the conflict needs to emerge and be managed efficiently. The idea that we will have peace forever we can forget. There will always be problems; the point is who pays for these problems. This is linked to a question, always of a methodological order. In my report I spoke of the fact that the episode we are dealing with, like so many others, has two sets of reasons: a general motivation, the recession, of which we are all aware today, and a motivation linked to bad management, because of course we are all human, even the managers of the banks, and we can be solicitous to particular interests or we can commit errors of assessment. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, in a study two years ago (if I am not mistaken), Luigi Zingales, who is one of the most eminent Italian economists, together with Angeloni and Bofoni, has made an evaluation of the genesis of the Italian non-performing loan, to understand what these non-performing loan depended on. Its quantitative assessment is as follows: the percentage of non-performing loan attributable to phenomena of mala gestion is between 4 and 8 per cent. Those who are a little familiar with statistics (which will be many) know that a similar percentage is statistically almost irrelevant. The problem is systemic. And then, if the problem is systemic, this exalts the consideration made by my colleague Grimani, because the systemic problems, which in an interrelated and integrated financial market such as what we wanted to build (maybe with some recklessness) here in Europe necessarily depend also on the behaviour of operators in other countries, cannot be left, when it comes to solving them, only on the shoulders of national authorities and communities. I will not dwell here on another subject that has been mentioned several times, namely that this provision is a copy, that we did as you (or like them) and that last time we were against it. This is a political issue, in my opinion, although there are facts that must be highlighted to see if this episode really is the photocopy of other episodes. Perhaps I would prefer to speak more widely during the explanation of vote. Here I would like to raise, starting to conclude, another general issue, which I have seen emerge in so many speeches during the general debate (I do not mention colleagues, because I think it is better not to do so). I am referring to the issue of local credit protection. Each of us has experience in our own colleges and knows what it means when the territorial credit institutions run into crisis situations. He knows what this means for the world of small and medium-sized enterprises and he knows what this means for artisans and families (in short, for the population in general). I would like to make two quick comments, which are also of a cultural nature (since the general discussion has been very high). I do not understand much when it is said that we have to rely more on the market than on banks and that we have to replace debt with financing on the market. Of course, the word debt has a negative appreciation and therefore it is clear that, at the time when the bank credit is called debt, it is already implicit there that we want to put the interlocutor in a position of tactical inferiority and that we want to demonize the work that credit institutions do as bank intermediaries. But do we want to remember that the market, the market on which large companies are structurally financed, is wrong and is seriously wrong? Banks are wrong, but also the market, which often makes more mistakes. The Wall Street or Lehman Brothers crisis was market crisis and left deep scars on world economic and financial history. I would not like us to enter into this strange perspective where on the one hand there is the small, localistic, familiar, corrupt and with a bad debt and, on the other hand, there is the regenerating market, healthy, incorrupt, moralizing and funder of good business practices because it is not so in fact and it is not so either in the will or - perhaps I should say - in the operational capacity of the European regulator, who yesterday came here to tell us that he did not worry about the fact that, for example, the management of suffering was in the hands of an oligopoly. Oligopoly is not the market, but a place where four or five people agree to make the price. I'm gonna finish. I think I have answered almost all the issues raised. However, I come back to the need to protect the territorial credit, the assets of savings banks and the assets of cooperative credit banks, which is strongly felt by this Government, all the more so at a time when a new slowdown in the world economy is emerging and where it is absolutely essential that the healthy part of our real economy is not entrusted to the collective hysteria of the so-called markets, but supported by a credit system close to the territories and their needs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo delle scienze umani (Liceo delle Scienze umani) (Giosuè Carducci) in Ferrara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u33	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u34	Mr President, I shall try to respond to some of the statements I heard during the debate here in the Senate. The main issue also debated in the Chamber of Deputies and on which the Government is accused does not concern the text because in the House, in fact, it was approved almost unanimously. Perhaps Brothers of Italy is the only political group that has abstained. To the only accusation directed against the Government that the text of this decree-law is equal to the text of the previous Government I answer saying that it is an obvious. Since 16 November 2015, i.e. since the transposition of the European BRRD Directive, which provides for the management of banks during crisis periods, only four or five types of intervention are possible. These types include texts that are actually standard because the possibility of using the emergency liquidity assistance (ELA) or liquidity anticipation, public guarantees for bond issues on the private market is envisaged or to proceed with a precautionary recapitalisation. The streets are, therefore, those. It's normal for the drafting text to be that. The difference with the old government is very wide. I would simply like to recall the decree issued for the four banks. MIRABELLI (PD). Let's talk about this. Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. It cost this country well - I took some notes because I didn't even remember these important figures - 870 million, plus 1.7 billion data to the Solidarity Fund. In the decree for the four banks, shareholders and subordinated bondholders saw their savings cancelled. This decree does not provide for a zero of savings for anyone and this is the first difference. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). It's the right way, good way! Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. We're talking about the previous government. Mr Marcucci (PD). You're talking about this decree. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Government confines itself to the considerations on the provision. Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Mr President, analogies have been put in place during the debate on the measure with respect to other measures and I am trying to explain to the senators and respond to those who have made certain statements in this House. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u35	However, the senators must allow the representative of the Government to finish his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u36	Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Same thing about the Venetian banks, where the zero was 2.5 billion: the capitals made available to the Atlas Fund were 2.5 billion and then 938 million. We recall that Cassa Depositi e Prestiti is a company owned by the public, it also participated in Fondo Atlante and lost all the money, the money of Italian citizens. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] Following the Venetian banks, we saw public money available for an Italian private bank, Intesa Sanpaolo. We Italian citizens had to give this bank 4,8 billion euros and then we had to put over 6 billion euros as collateral: as many as 11 billion public money made available for the banking system, unlike what happens for Carige, where it is expected to make available a maximum of 300 million euros to guarantee bonds, which however will be paid by that bank to the public: zero public money lost with this decree. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Today I also hear in this House bad talk about the bail in, but excuse me, the previous government strongly wanted the bail in. [[Comments and protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u37	Senators, if the government in giving its explanations to the provision makes references to previous governments, I don't think it's an offense to you. Are we gonna end this? Mr Marcucci (PD). Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u38	President, it is history that the bail in is within the BRRD directive that was transposed on November 16, 2015 by the previous majority: it is history and is visible in any book or daily. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Today we hear that power of government, which is in opposition today, saying that the bail in is not good. Too bad that in April 2016, in the context of question time, I, as an opposition, addressed myself directly to the Government asking to postpone the bail in and the previous Government said that that provision was fine. RICHETTI (PD). You're right to oppose it, so you'll be back in a bit. Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. So, if you wanted it, now it will be this government that will fight in Europe to eliminate it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] MALPEZZI (PD). Tell us something about your decree! Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Monte dei Paschi di Siena: even there, it is true that the text is similar. MIRABELLI (PD). No, it's the same. Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. The text is the same: it's fine. The only difference is that there are 300 million here, while there you put 5 billion euros of public money. That's the difference. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Another important difference is that on MPS you couldn't do anything anymore, because you were too late. And the strength and skill of this government is to arrive sooner and on Carige we arrived sooner and that's why the first step we can make is to guarantee a bond issue with little money, without reaching the limit of the precautionary recapitalisation. If we had arrived late, as before, we would have been forced to immediately set up a precautionary recapitalisation with public money. So even that we arrived earlier, compared to other interventions on the banking system over the last five years, is history. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Compared to Consob and Banca d'Italia, I heard during the debate on the decree some attacks by some political representatives of my Parliamentary Group, but there is no interference in the activity that by law belongs to Banca d'Italia, the Board of Governors and the President of the Council. It is obvious that the nominations of the members of these bodies should be made by those who have the competence by law, but given the despair experienced in recent years by 300,000 savers, to whom our Government will finally give breath, having made available 1.5 billion euros against the 100 million euros previously put by the old Government, we can finally see a banking system that does not attack Consob and does not attack Bank of Italy, but only asks Consob and Bank of Italy to put a hand on the conscience. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Carige has been in trouble for years and therefore, as someone has said in this House, it is a political responsibility: but we have arrived in March 2018 and we have been in the government since June 2018; if anyone had to make an intervention, they would have had to do so in the previous years, since Carige had been putting up capital increases for years and constantly needed new ones. What we did, as soon as we arrived to the Government, was to put a magnifying glass on this bank; we realized that we could not intervene at that time, because there was a private negotiation (you know well that the member Malacalza in December should have made a capital increase and that the State cannot intervene in a totally private negotiation). At the time, however, this jumped, we immediately made 300 million euros of bonds available, which allowed that bank not to be declared insolvent. Then we were able to put this guarantee into place on the bond issue, which was actually timely and allowed us not to spend excessive public money, which - I repeat - will have to be paid by the same bank on an industrial level. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] I will quickly conclude on the amendments, which we will not approve, but not because we are opposed to the amendments. MALPEZZI (PD). Sure! Mr VILLAROSA, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Even the Movimento 5 Stars, initially, had tabled amendments to the Chamber of Deputies; then, with great respect for the oppositions, who asked not to extend the decree, whose text included only the name of Carige, and to confine ourselves to the interventions on Carige, we withdrew all the amendments. That is why, not an objection to the substance of the amendments, but a method which you have also asked us to put in place. For this reason, most of the agendas I have seen, which are absolutely in line with the Government's ideas, will be accepted by this majority. Good work, everyone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u39	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the contact person, declares that, in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, amendments 7.4, 11.0.1, 14.3, 21-a.0.2 and 21-a.0.6 cannot be proposed because they are outside the scope of the decree-law. In accordance with the same regulation, amendments 22.0.0.100, 22.0.0.101 and 22.0.0.102, tabled only at the Shareholders' Meeting and intended to amend the Single Banking Text in the field of cooperative banking groups, are also inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u42	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have heard the Undersecretary, who is so good and punctual, and also the President of the Commission and rapporteur, but I understand that there are actually problems with this measure. So, in the light of all the jokes that have been told about how good and beautiful they are and all the silly and inappropriate references that have been made in this House, I ask myself and I ask you formally: are we still on this measure? Is the road map confirmed, which provides for the vote today? Is there a problem? Floridia (M5S). The substance, Senator Marcucci! Mr Marcucci (PD). Because if this Government, which has as its protagonists these subjects, so good and prepared, had committed for the umpteenth time another grave error, which puts at risk the survival of the decree-law under consideration, I would ask you to organize immediately a meeting of the Conference of the Leaders, since unlike this Government and this majority, we have at heart the future and the interest of our national community. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We therefore make ourselves available to resolve any mistakes that the Undersecretary, its offices and its Government would have made. Mr President, please tell me if everything is okay and we will proceed exactly as planned by the Conference of the Leaders. Otherwise, let us interrupt the work and summon it immediately. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u43	Senator Marcucci, as we speak, I have no news of the timing. We have come to the explanation of the amendments and, as far as I am concerned, during my presidency, we continue with this illustration. Mr Marcucci (PD). Undersecretary Villarosa, everyone assumes their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u46	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak about the announcement you have just made on the imperviousness of certain amendments. (Senator Marcucci approaches the benches of the government.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u47	Senator Marcucci, as far as I could, I answered her. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Since Senator Ciriani is speaking with the Government, just as I was asked on your part to call the Government back when it was disturbed, this I do, out of respect for Senator Ciriani and to allow him to continue his intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u48	Mr President, we are rather disappointed at the announcement that you have just made, on behalf of the Senate Presidency Offices, on the imperviousness of certain amendments. Unfortunately, fast reading has made it impossible for us to mark them all, but it is certain that in your opinion, Mr President, Amendment 7.4 is outside the scope of the subject. I wonder why an amendment which should be close to the heart of a large number of senators in this House or representatives of the majority is alien to this matter, which simply calls for ethical rules to be introduced for the salaries and salaries of bank managers saved by the State. We have seen not only the scandal of the failure of Banca d'Italia to supervise banks decorated to the limit of bankruptcy, but also that of overpaid directors, paid with millions of euros, with bonuses and shares. If the State is committed to saving banks and to making public guarantees available, which are paid with the money of citizens, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and traders, why is the principle that new directors must have no more than the compensation attributable to a senior government manager outside the field? We simply want to avoid that after saving banks and savers we return to the scandalous practice of incompetent and perhaps even dishonest administrators who receive 2, 3, 4, 5 million euros per year, while a bank employee, yes and no, comes to 2,000 euros per month. It is a common sense amendment. We are the Italian Parliament, we are the Senate, I do not understand why the proposal is foreign to the matter: perhaps because it can cause some embarrassment by the majority, which would be called to vote against. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u49	Senator Ciriani, as you know, we cannot intervene at this stage on impponibility. I gladly listened to your speech, as the House did, and I would remind you that the indication on Amendment 7.4 had already been made in the Commission and you were aware of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u50	, f. f. Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u51	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u52	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since no amendments have been tabled to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u53	, f. f. Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 4.1 and to the G4100, G4101 and G4102 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u54	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u55	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G4,100, G4,101 and G4,102 will not be put to the vote. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u56	, f. f. Mr President, I am against Amendment 5.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u57	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u58	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 6 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u59	, f. f. Mr President, I am against Amendments 6.1 and 6.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u60	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u61	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 6.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u62	, f. f. Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 7. On the agenda, Mr G7,100, I would like to return to the Government, while on the agenda, Mr G7,101, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u63	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. There would be a favourable opinion on the G7100 agenda if the wording was added in the part of the undertaking to assess whether it would be appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u64	Senator D'Alfonso, do you accept the reformulation? D'ALFONSO (PD). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u65	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.2, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.3 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 7.4 is not possible. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G7,100 (text 2) and G7,101 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 8 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u66	Mr President, I am against Amendments 8.1 and 8.2; the opinion is in favour of the G8.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u67	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u68	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 8.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 8.2 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G8.100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to in Article 9 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u69	Mr President, the opinion on the G9100 agenda is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u70	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u71	Having been accepted by the Government, the G9.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to in Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u72	Mr President, I am in favour of the G10100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u73	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u74	Having been accepted by the Government, the G10.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. As an irreproachable amendment has been tabled to Article 11 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 12 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u75	Mr President, I am against Amendment 12.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u76	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u77	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 12.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since no amendments have been tabled to Article 13 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 14 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u78	Mr President, I am against all the amendments referred to in Rule 14, and on the agendas of the G14,100 and G14,101 I am going back to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u79	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur on the amendments. On the agenda, Mr G14,100, we ask that the words be inserted at the beginning of the device: With this rewording, the agenda would be accepted. On the other hand, we are prepared to accept the G14.101 agenda as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u80	Senator D'Alfonso, do you accept the proposed reformulation? D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I welcome you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 14.3 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.4 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.5 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.6 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G14.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G14.101, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u81	Mr President, I am against Amendments 15.1 and 15.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u82	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u83	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 15.1 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 15.2 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Since no amendments have been tabled to Article 16 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 17 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u84	Mr President, I am against all the amendments tabled to Rule 17. On the agenda, Mr G17,100, I shall return to the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u85	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. On the G17,100 agenda, the opinion supported the adoption as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u86	I would like to ask Mr G17,100, Senator De Bertoldi, if he accepts the Government's proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u87	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.2 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 17.3 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). As the rapporteur does not insist on the vote, the G17.100 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Since no amendments have been tabled to Article 18 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendments and the agenda referred to in Article 19 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be set out, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u89	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 19. On the other hand, I am in favour of the G19.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u90	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. The Government accepts the agenda G19.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 19.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, until the words 'n'. 89... 89... 89... 89... 89... 89.. 89... 89.. 89... 89... 89... 89.. 89... 89.. 89... 89.. 89... 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89.. 89. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 19.2. are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.4 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.6 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.5 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 19.3 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G19.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. As no amendments have been tabled to Article 20 of the Decree-Law, we shall proceed to the examination of the amendment referred to in Article 21 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be explained, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u92	Mr President, on Amendment 21.1 I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u93	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u94	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 21.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We proceed to the examination of the agendas referred to Article 21-bis of the decree-law, which are described, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u95	Mr President, I support the adoption of both agendas referred to in Rule 21-a.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u96	The Government accepts the agendas G21- bis.100 and G21- bis.101.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u97	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G21- bis.100 and G21- bis.101 will not be put to the vote. Amendments 21-a.0.2 and 21-a.0.6 are unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the examination of the agenda referred to in Article 22 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the acting rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u98	Mr President, I support the adoption of the G22.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u99	Mr President, the Government accepts the G22.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u100	Having been accepted by the Government, the G22.100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Amendments Nos 22,0,100, 22,0,101 and 22,0,102 are unacceptable. Colleagues, I inform you that the Conference of the Leaders has been convened, so I suspend the sitting which will resume the outcome of the meeting. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] . (The sitting was suspended at 11.57 a.m. and resumed at 12.21 a.m.) Colleagues, I inform you that, at the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, it was decided that the sitting should be suspended and resumed at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.21 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u101	The session is resumed. As agreed by the Conference of Leaders, the sitting resumed with the debate on the motions on the agenda. The explanations of vote and the final vote on the decree-law concerning Banca Carige will follow, even beyond the closing time of the sitting established by calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u102	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00024 tabled by Senator Jacob and other senators, by abbreviated procedure pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the establishment of the Committee for the Questions of Italians Abroad. I call Senator Jacob to illustrate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motion of which I am the first signatory and to which many colleagues from different parliamentary groups have joined. I am surprised that today I no longer see the signatures of my colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars, who originally signed it, and this concerns me, because today we risk making a decision by making the interests of the parties prevail, instead of that of the country and of the more than 70 million people of Italian origin who live in the world. The Committee was set up in the course of past legislation, from XIV to XVII, the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, with the task of deepening the conditions, problems and expectations of Italian communities living abroad. In the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee was also recently established for the 18th legislature. I don't understand how we can not do the same to the Senate of the Republic. The role played by the Committee in recent years has been of fundamental importance both for Parliament and for our communities abroad. Learning elements have been acquired on issues and expectations, assessing how to contribute to their solution with regulatory interventions and contacts with Italian institutions and foreign authorities. Among the many topics examined are the valorization of the economic, cultural and civil contribution of Italian communities abroad, consular services, promotion of language and culture, reform of the law on citizenship and analysis of specific issues such as the effects of Brexit on communities and Italy. I think that none of these issues is the prerogative of a single party or part of Parliament. The election of MPs in the foreign constituency enabled Parliament to create a new relationship with the Italian communities in the world. In a self-critical way, however, I believe that in recent years we have unfortunately failed - I am referring to those elected abroad - to make Parliament and the country understand the great potential of active collaboration with our communities in the world. The leading sector of the Italian economy is the export of Made in Italy. No one can question the role of Italians in the world for having helped define the lifestyle of host communities, thus facilitating the entry of Italian goods and services. In other words, they were the unpaid ambassadors of the country system. Today our communities are mature and integrated into many of the host societies; our children and grandchildren play important roles and positions in all sectors of society. Imagine the difference between operating in markets where there are proud people of their Italian origins or trying to enter new markets where Italian language and culture are known only through textbooks? Here, ask the representatives of the many Italian companies involved in internationalization processes because they know what the difference is. Inside the Italian institutions we very often do not realize this, despite the presence of elected parliamentarians abroad. Certainly initiatives such as the survey of the conditions and needs of Italian communities abroad, recently authorised by the Commission for Foreign Affairs and Migration, represent an added value to the Senate's work, but this alone is not enough and cannot be replaced by the Committee. It is a specific initiative that does not allow to have a global and continuous vision on the many issues of interest and the potential of our communities abroad for the promotion of the country system. There is a need for exchanges of views, ideas and working methods throughout the term of office, which only the Committee can do. There are many topical issues on the table, which risk not being in-depth and to which, without a specific institutional body, we risk giving answers related to the personal initiative of those who feel more involved at the moment, or of those who believe that they gain political advantages. Themes that take on different aspects, sometimes opposite, depending on the geographical areas where our compatriots have settled and continue to settle. Among these I recall the assistance to fellow citizens living in countries in crisis, the implementation and revision of social security agreements and health care, consular services, assistance to new migrations, the effects of Brexit, the recognition abroad of educational qualifications, and in particular the Italian professional qualifications, the social security coverage for Italians who in the globalized world move from one country to another, especially in Asian, African and Oceania countries, where there are no pension systems of the social security type. Then there are the themes of the promotion of the country system. In my academic and professional life I have learned that the single factor that contributes most of all to the success of internationalization processes is trust. Trust is not something that can be imposed, but it needs to be gained in the field by learning to know each other. In international relations, the basis for knowing each other is to understand and respect cultural differences. Language and culture are the first step to understand better: promoting the teaching of the Italian language in the world and organizing cultural initiatives to have an impact in local societies are fundamental issues. As I repeat to nauseam, it is an investment in the future, not current expenditure. The huge network of Italians in the world, of which I spoke before, consisting of our children and grandchildren, who play important decision-making roles in host societies, can be another great resource. In fact, they can facilitate the entry of Made in Italy into their countries of residence and expansion in neighbouring countries or they can allow to identify themes to establish a closer collaboration between Italy and their countries: I am thinking, for example, of the effects of Brexit on the countries of Oceania. Mr President, I could go on for hours with other examples of issues that require constant attention and elaboration, which - I repeat - only the establishment of the Committee in question can guarantee. I begin to conclude: in the Chamber of Deputies the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad is already a reality. Even in the light of the important role played by the Committee in past legislation, the institution in the 18th legislature in the Senate is, in my opinion, a duty towards our fellow citizens abroad and a service to Italian society. It is a political choice that divides water between those who have interest and care for Italians in the world and those who, on the one hand, preach interest but, on the other hand, practice indifference. Today, with the approval of this motion, we have the possibility to continue to keep the connection with our fellow countrymen alive abroad. We have the opportunity to send out a strong signal, a commitment from Parliament and the Italian institutions to them, and to reaffirm the awareness that they are for Italy an economic, social, cultural and political resource. Mr President, I should like to conclude by calling for the broadest convergence on the part of the House on the establishment of the Committee. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Fantetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u104	I declare the debate open. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in expressing a favourable opinion on this motion, I take this opportunity to bring to the attention of all of you - and this is not in fact a matter of partisan interest - an immediate issue which, in my opinion, requires some attention. I'm talking about the voting exercise of the Italian community in the UK... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u106	Colleagues, please, you cannot listen to the speaker. Thank you, Senator Mallegni, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u107	Please, Senator Bonino. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Thank you, Mr President. I said that I would take this opportunity, waiting for the Committee to be set up, which I think is very useful, partly because I think there are a lot of things to review, in order to raise a more urgent and immediate issue, concerning the Italian community in the United Kingdom and the exercise of voting for the European elections on 26 May. It is an important community, because we are talking about 300,000 Italians enrolled in the Anagraphe of Italians living abroad (AIRE), to which are added 300,000 temporarily domiciled in the United Kingdom. In total uncertainty about what can happen (Brexit yes or Brexit no, deal or no deal), it is clear that these fellow countrymen have already addressed the government with a public letter and we have already asked the Executive with a question to the Chamber of Deputies. Clearly, a situation of great uncertainty has been created. For example, tomorrow the terms for voting questions will expire at the Consulates of voters temporarily abroad, without this great community of Italians having had the opportunity to understand how it must be equipped to exercise a fundamental right like this. It is clear that if Brexit passed, suddenly these compatriots would have to organize themselves to come and vote in Italy, like the Italians in Switzerland or Norway; but you understand that the situation is different, because so far the Italians of the United Kingdom have always voted in the consulates. From what I know, Farnesina has given full availability and has declared that she is operationally ready to let them exercise their right to vote in the United Kingdom. Mr Salvini, answering the question I said, stated that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had jurisdiction, but as far as he had competence (of Mr Salvini) he responded by giving the greatest willingness and openness also to review possible regulations, given the exceptional nature of the situation. I would like to draw attention precisely to the exceptional situation, because the fact that Brexit is there or not is not only up to us: it is a decision that is not known when, we do not know how (not even what) the United Kingdom will take in relation to the relationship with the European Union. I therefore insist that a temporary and partial adaptation of Law No 408 of 1994, given the extraordinary nature of the situation, not only permits but also implies extraordinary intervention to give our citizens at least some certainty as to how they should behave. Therefore, in confirming the vote in favour of setting up the Committee, I would like to point out a very urgent problem, because there are only a few weeks to go. I see the availability of the Minister of the Interior; the Minister of Foreign Affairs has given as much availability and I think that the opportunity should also be taken with regard to respect for a large community of Italians abroad, who do not because of their fault live in a situation of great uncertainty regarding a fundamental right and I think that this extraordinary situation requires extraordinary intervention. I thank my colleagues for listening to me, but I think it is very much in everyone's interest to guarantee this exercise. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u108	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u109	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 Italians residing abroad registered at AIRE were just under 4 million and today (updated in December 2018) are just under 6 million, so in just under ten years there has been an increase of a quarter, 25%, of Italians residing abroad. It is therefore an extremely important reality for our country from the quantitative point of view, because we can equate them to a real Region outside our borders, a region of important numbers and stocks, comparable to Emilia-Romagna and Veneto; however, it is an extremely important reality also a qualitative point of view. In a globalized world such as today's, our 6 million citizens living abroad are, as my colleague Jacob said in his speech, ambassadors, antennas of the country scattered throughout the world, people living in their DNA to be projected towards international horizons and living globalization in their daily lives. Among other things, we speak of fellow citizens who are often perfectly integrated in their places of residence; sometimes they are even excellences in the various fields of entrepreneurship, knowledge, research, cuisine, food and wine and import-export. A great resource for the country, both from the numerical point of view and for the extremely global profile of their skills, both linguistic and cultural. And they are also deeply rooted in their Italian roots: therefore, a great potential for the country system in the world. A phenomenon that, in recent years, has known extremely important numbers, in many ways even comparable to those that were the most consistent migratory waves of our country in the sixties-seventies, of the economic boom. Among other things, a phenomenon that does not only concern the individual personal destinies of these fellow citizens who have resumed massively to go abroad, but that is increasingly a phenomenon that concerns the country, which also affects the places of departure, where we often find, even in peripheral areas, real desertifications in terms of escape of intelligences, brains, not only of arms, people with skills, with tenacity, with the courage to go abroad. By the way, this also represents a cost to the country. In fact, if, in the past, until the 2000s, the majority of those who left were people with low qualifications (you think that, until 2000, 50 percent of those who went abroad had, at most, a medium license), today the data are of a different tenor. Today, as many as one third of the compatriots leaving are graduates or, even, with even higher degrees, such as PhDs or specializations. Why, then, the Committee of Italians in the world here in the Senate? Because this phenomenon particularly affects the country, because the legislator also needs to be attentive to the new phenomenology of our Italians abroad. On the other hand, we also need to monitor the impact of legislation on Italians abroad. One example of all: just this morning national newspapers report, on a proposal for a law adopted by Parliament about ten years ago, among other things in a bipartisan way, the famous law against exodus, its unfortunate application. A recent circular from the Revenue Agency has totally upset this law, so it is having exactly opposite effects to what the legislator wished. In fact, rather than favoring the return of brains from abroad, in the light of a false interpretation given by the Agency of revenues, it is even producing the opposite phenomenon: it feeds new departures and new migrations. Therefore, there is also a need, at the legislative level, within the institution of the Senate, for an ad hoc institutional body, specifically aimed at assessing, also from the regulatory point of view, what measures can be put in place in support of our communities abroad; measures aimed also, on the one hand, to curb these new waves of migration, which are taking on worrying dimensions precisely for their identity, and, on the other hand, to evaluate legislative proposals aimed at encouraging the return of our fellow citizens, perhaps even responding to the different situations emerging. I am thinking, for example, of what is being created as a result of the forthcoming Brexit, the UK's exit from the European Union. Ben was the Senator Bonino to point out, and as a Democratic Party we add to his considerations, the usefulness of the Government taking measures to grant the right to vote to our fellow citizens resident in the United Kingdom in view of the forthcoming European elections. But I would like to add a simple example, Mr President, alongside all those already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Jacob, of the potential areas that the Committee for Italians abroad could and should be in contact with. Another example could be to encourage the reintegration of many of our medical specialists operating abroad to cope with the severe difficulties that our public health structures are experiencing, precisely in relation to alarming numbers of deficit and shortage of doctors and specialists. Over the last ten years, just among the many excellences of our young emigrant brains abroad, we have had as many as 10,000 specialized doctors trained by our universities, among other things with substantial costs. Suffice it to say that the estimate for the university education of a graduate is around 120,000 euros, while you reach over 260,000 euros at the expense of the Italian public funds to form a specialist doctor who then, perhaps, once trained, went abroad. Over the last ten years, we have a total of 10,000 young people who have moved abroad to practice the profession of specialist doctor, and of these many, for example, in the United Kingdom. And today, in the light of a possible - and, unfortunately, increasingly imminent - Brexit even without agreement, therefore with a no deal, we risk, in the aftermath of March 29, seeing many of our young brains, now perfectly inserted in the local context, being deprived of their legal status as European citizens. Mr President, this was only a very concrete example of how much an institutional body such as the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad, set up here in the Senate, could immediately become an institutional body, an ideal place for bipartisan work, constant over time, a work of political and legislative proposal towards the Italian Parliament. I therefore hope, Mr President, that there will still be political elements for the Government to take seriously the idea of setting up this Committee. We hope that the fact that the signatures have been withdrawn from the signing of the motion by the Movimento 5 Stars does not preannounce a potential hostile attitude of the Government because this, as my colleague Jacob said very well, would be the signal of a lack of attention not so much towards the Democratic Party, promoter of the motion, but of all our communities of Italians abroad, who hope, instead, that there can be a bipartisan job, that they realize how much our communities are a great value, first of all for the country. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u110	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u111	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u112	Mr President, the Government obviously attaches the utmost attention to the Italian communities abroad, which represent an economic, social, cultural and political resource of our country. Policies in favour of Italians abroad, including those only temporarily resident abroad, are a fundamental aspect of Italian foreign policy. This is a topic to which, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation attaches a strategic centrality, and which involves our central offices and our diplomatic-consular network to provide consular services, assistance to fellow countrymen and to promote the spread of Italian language and culture. I would like to assure and assure everyone that the Government, regardless of the parliamentary dynamic in this House today, will give the utmost attention to this issue, and will do so in one case or another. The signal of attention, moreover, has already been given also in the last economic maneuver, through which, for the first time after so many years, 350 people were hired to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, including 50 contractists destined for foreign offices in order to face phenomena such as Brexit and the constant demand for more resources for consulates such as those of the Latin American area, for example. Above all, it has been possible to include an increase in the financial allocation for contractists in order to allow our Consulates to have staff working fully where they really need to. I would also like to reassure everyone that since last June the so-called Brexit coordination has been established at Palazzo Chigi. It is an interministerial coordination to address all the needs related to Brexit. On 15 February, the government's website also published the strategic plan that provides the possibilities to follow in case of Brexit both with agreement and without, to provide all Italians abroad with a path to follow whatever the scenario. I would add that, again in the last maneuver, the commitment to the promotional plan for Italy, which is not only economic but also related to the promotion of Italianity abroad, has been reiterated. In fact, the plan is called "Living Italian" and makes a huge reference to Italians who are abroad. I would also like to reassure Senator Bonino (I do not know if I can reassure her, because - in fact - I give her some information on what she asked for). In this case, the question is not whether or not we are interested in the problem of Italian voters in the United Kingdom in the case of Brexit, but whether we are concerned with the laws in force. Italian law allows you to vote at the Consulate of the country in which you reside if you are within the European Union, while it does not provide (therefore provides for the vote only in Italy) in countries outside Europe. We, like Farnesina, have already taken steps to ensure the consular vote in case there is a request for an extension under Article 50 (therefore, basically, if there is still this stagnation phase). In the event, however, that there should be certainty of exit (that is, of Brexit) before the vote, the Italians resident in the United Kingdom will have to vote in Italy, because in that case there would be a situation of certainty of extraterritoriality. So, in case there is no clear situation yet, our consulates are already ready to vote. In case there is, instead, a clear indication of Brexit - with or without deal - clearly the Italians will have to return to Italy to vote. On the establishment of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, the Government returns to the Assembly and is, of course, willing to cooperate with it if it is established. In any case, as stated at the beginning of the intervention, I assure everyone that, whatever the outcome of this vote, Italians abroad represent a priority for our Government from the point of view of not only economic and relations, but also the promotion of our country abroad and the rights that Italians resident abroad have as our fellow countrymen. In conclusion, I repeat - and I am addressing the President here - that the Government is returning to this House on this motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u113	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u116	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I am very pleased that the Government has returned to the House on this motion, which we believe can be accepted unanimously, although there are senators who put us in a bit of trouble believing what, from our point of view, should be good and just for everyone. When the motion was tabled, it seemed to us the most natural thing in the world. I also say this to the representative of the Government, who explained some of the issues before, without, however, substantially touching the central point of the motion. For four legislative purposes, the Committee has played a very specific role. I only remember the role he played in the last parliamentary term, when he acted actively - I say this and I would like the Government to take note of it - also to make effective those measures that undersecretary Merlo, who I regret not seeing in this Chamber today, boasts without any merit. I remember this because, for example, one of the activities carried out by the Committee in the last legislature was to facilitate measures that the Government had taken vis-à-vis Italians abroad, particularly for the diffusion of the Italian language. I remember the delegation law n. 107 of 2015, which guaranteed a very particular area of action, but on the other hand I remember also those amendments signed forcefully by the elected abroad, and not only, that had led to the distribution of a fund, the one of which today - I repeat - the undersecretary Merlo takes the merits, which guaranteed 50 million every year for this type of promotion. I would have expected, if nothing else, an intervention from the Undersecretary to say that there is all the will to widen the financing, precisely because up to this moment - I tell you, Undersecretary Di Stefano - we did not have signals from this Government, except fine words towards Italians abroad. But we don't have any concrete signals. I tell you this because we are also a little tired of words, and we are tired - I repeat - because insofar as you take very easily the commitment with Senator Bonino to the issue of our fellow countrymen, who are experiencing a very special situation with regard to Brexit, and therefore in the United Kingdom, your words are not at all peace and guarantee. We would like something more, because Plan B perhaps you should begin to announce it and not simply say that you would almost be willing to remove a right, that is to say to be able to vote where they are, to quietly wash your hands because you find the easiest way. We have had four legislative acts with this Committee, in which we have believed in a particular way. The other branch of Parliament also believed in this Committee, because there was no doubt about its adoption. It's just that we realized that this government has done nothing but divide places and armchairs in a fair manner. We would not like the Chambers to be divided on this occasion, and therefore, since the House has given the green light to this Committee, the Senate would say no through the government forces. You will also remember - and we have not heard your indignant words - the intervention here in the Chamber of Vice President Calderoli regarding his vision of the elected abroad and therefore also the role they play. I do not quote, because I do not remember the quote, but I clearly remember that there was an attack on the great usefulness and value of our elected representatives abroad. Apparently, if you had a choice right now, you'd take them off completely. I would not want the position of the League here in the Senate to have brought the 5 Star Movement, which - I remember - had signed this motion, to withdraw its signatures. In fact, in this case it would be really shameful. We'll see what you're gonna do soon. Unfortunately we cannot think of it in a positive way; your shortsightedness does not show you towards Italians abroad that opportunity that we believe they are and of which they are bearers. We never hear you talk, in fact, about the great opportunity that Italians abroad can give to the system Country Italy, thanks to their ability to create networks and to create networks. Our entrepreneurs also need that base abroad, which from your point of view does not deserve to be valued. Perhaps because you have in mind a figure of Italians abroad very different from that which, for example, my colleague Garavini and my colleague Giacobbe have illustrated to you before, that is of an extremely complex world but with many resources, ready to put into play for their country of origin (if their country of origin had the good taste to take them into consideration). Instead, this government continues to ignore them incessantly and we cannot grasp any gestures. I would add that this shortsightedness of yours makes you unable to see and read the problems that our fellow countrymen are experiencing. I say this with the awareness of those who have been Italian abroad, because I have lived in Germany and also in Croatia and I had the opportunity to see what is the role that Italian communities play in making bridges, in the possibility of finding contacts, even in the simple way of facilitating bureaucratic issues. A committee like the one that could be born in the Senate also serves to improve this system, because it has the function of carrying out projects that are really ad hoc, that give the opportunity to talk about that topic, that solve the problem in its specificity, otherwise it always goes into the background, becomes one of the many paragraphs that are found within the budget law, becomes one of the many amendments without planning, without construction, just according to the rule of improvisation that characterizes you. There is another aspect that worries me and that will undoubtedly be denied by the vote of this House, because I hope that colleagues from the Legist Group and colleagues from the Movimento 5 Stars will have the will instead of giving life to this Committee: I would not like the possibility of this Committee also doing investigations of a cognitive nature, to exploit the beautiful experiences of our communities abroad that carry with it great stories of integration, to disturb the minds of some colleagues who instead think that integration is not a wealth and that instead lives the principle of mixing not so much as an opportunity, but as a danger. With this fashion of sovereignism, of always and only looking in your own home, in the vision of a narrow italian within your own borders, everything that comes from outside becomes dangerous, and then woe, better to block it. I would not want the possibility of having contact with our migrants, with the living and strong communities that are all over the world - Senator Jacob first recalled that ours is the largest community in the world - that these good practices and good examples could change someone's mind. I fear that in your short-sightedness there is also the absolute lack of courage to say that sometimes knowing and becoming bearers of a heritage of experience, which perhaps many in this House do not know, is a wealth and not a fear to be fought. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u119	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have noted some ideas, but in fact following some of the speeches I would like to clarify one aspect in the preamble. It seems that the representation of my Group is the one that essentially does not take into account the importance and interests of Italians currently resident abroad. This thing I want to deny, because in spite of those who speak of shortsightedness on this subject, I want to remind myself - and I remind myself, that I have part of my family that is resident abroad and that lives that situation in the first person, exactly on the other side of the world - that I know exactly what it means to be part of an important community, that wants to maintain its roots, the relations with its own country of belonging, with the fact of being Italian, to be Lombard, Piedmontese, Emilian, Sicilian, of all the Regions of our Peninsula. Today, however, we are discussing something else: this motion calls for the setting up of a Committee to deal with the problems of Italians living abroad. Let's talk about something else, we are talking about a body that should be concerned about following these issues, but we have just heard from the Undersecretary that these issues are being followed and there is a formal commitment here (let's remember that we are in the Senate). And he just said that the problem of Italians abroad is not a problem of the second floor. This is very important to me; but many probably do not want to hear it, but they simply want to throw it into controversy, where there is nothing at all. I belong to the Commission for Foreign Affairs and Migration. We often forget that in the name of the Commission there is also the reference to emigration. We have recently approved a survey of knowledge in the Plenary Commission, which means that the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Migration, will deal with these issues. Mrs Garavini mentioned earlier that, compared to the 4 million members of AIRE in 2008, today there are just under 6 million members. Well, of course, if the phenomenon has increased in this way, we must also change the instruments with which we approach this problem. We believe that the survey we have recently approved in the Commission, which has been approved by the presidency of the Senate, is a much larger mesh tool than that of a committee. The latter would certainly have its dignity, but this time we want to approach the problem in a different way. In the House, as has rightly been said, there is a Committee. Great. In the Senate, do we want to try to see if the instrument that was previously correct is still correct? It probably isn't anymore, because the phenomenon has changed. And that doesn't mean keeping the interests of Italians in the background abroad. I continue to hear this subject, which I believe to be deeply unfair, because we have, however, parliamentary groups that have committed themselves to the appropriate forums to take this situation into account. Regardless of the controversy, which I do not want to face, I believe that those who reside abroad and however want to maintain a strong bond with the motherland do not deserve controversy, but deserve essentially concrete interventions, those interventions that were desired and on which I agree: to maintain the connection, to maintain profit with respect to this relationship. I absolutely agree with import-export and economic relations; I am constantly in contact with many realities and I subscribe to this. But I do not believe that putting the problems of Italians abroad on the same footing and the establishment of a Committee is such a straightforward issue, precisely because the commitment of the Government and the commitment of Parliament remain firm on this issue and on the situation of Italians abroad. I think this is crucial. As far as the country's interest is concerned, it just remembered that the country's interest is to set up a Committee (of course). I believe that the interest of the country is to maintain its own identity and to maintain its connection with those who want to maintain a bond with their native country. The Committee would simply be an instrument, but, as I said before, it is probably time to change and it is time to experiment with other instruments. I do not even accept - I say this in total respect of the adverse positions - that this is considered as a watershed between those who have interest in protecting Italians abroad and those who do not give a damn. I do not think this is correct, I do not think it is acceptable and I do not agree with it. That is why - and I do not want to go any further - I believe that the problem of Italians abroad is not under discussion today, because it is, however, a foundation of government action (it is reiterated by the Undersecretary). To say no to the establishment of a committee does not mean to go against it; on the contrary, it is a spur for us, because it means involving the whole of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Migration to work better and more actively and to maintain deeper contacts, which would otherwise risk being relegated only to a committee. But we want to go further. I call on those who do not agree with us on this point to read the matter from this point of view, because this is the only point of view that puts us at the root of the fact that we do not currently believe that we support the Committee's constitution. Nothing more and nothing less. Every further reading, from our point of view, is simply linked to political controversy and does not concern us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u122	FANTETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, I speak with sadness in my heart after listening to the words of my colleague who, among other things, confuses the Government's plan with that of Parliament. I am not surprised that to represent the government's position was called the only Undersecretary not directly involved in the matter we are dealing with. I have done many missions with Minister Moavero Milanesi, not least the one in Marcinelle, and I know of his personal sensitivity to the subject. I also know the direct experience of the undersecretary Merlo, elected abroad, as well as that of the undersecretary Picchi, who was elected abroad for three legislatures. I am well aware that the same Deputy Minister Del Re, who is active in international cooperation, has had various experiences and shares this cause. As I said, however, I am not surprised that to express the position of the Government not in favour of the reconstitution of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad you have been called, Mr Undersecretary, although this sincerely does not point out so much because you see, ladies and gentlemen, it is a decision of the Italian Parliament, not of the Government: we are faced with an internal body act of the Senate of the Republic. I recall that we are in a bicameral system and that the House of Deputies has set up the Committee for Italians in the world for the current parliamentary term, as for the previous four. Let it be clear that only this branch of Parliament, if it did not approve the motion under discussion, would commit the individual institutional act more hostile to Italians abroad since they entered Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are discussing the abolition of the only Committee specifically dedicated to the issues of Italians abroad; there are no other stories. The survey cited by the Foreign Affairs Committee is a mirror for allodoles which has institutionally scandalous features. We do not make a survey of 10% of the Italian population: we do a survey of the facts of Forteto or anything extremely limited, but not about Italians abroad and you all know it, because you all have some connection with someone living abroad. Italians abroad are 10% of the population and, whether you like it or not, deserve respect, they deserve a Committee that focuses on the analysis and promotion of our issues. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Abolish the Committee on the Issues of Italians Abroad - as you would do today not approving the motion in question - is the biggest act hostile to Italians abroad since they exist in Parliament, that is, since a bipartisan action directed by the center-right, by Minister Tremaglia (who will be turning in the tomb), has allowed an institutional emphasis to be given to a phenomenon such as the Italian migration that has no equal in the world. Italians have emigrated for two centuries and continue to do so: every year 150,000 disappears. Think of your territories and imagine them with 150,000 fewer people next year. Italian emigration exploded again. The government boasts of resources dedicated to Italians abroad, as it has done today, for example: I refer first of all to the 300 and beyond contractists of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First of all, this is what is foreseen in the budget law approved at the end of 2018: competitions should start in November 2019, but we want to see if by the end of the year there will be and how many officials will be seconded to the consulates. At that point we will check how useful they have been to Italians abroad. With the same criterion you can hire 50 new ambassadors and say that you do it for Italians abroad. Right now it's just words. Then be clear: four legislatures. By not approving this Committee, you would be like those Taliban who, because they control the territory for a certain period, blow up all the monuments and works of art made by previous civilizations. Do you have control of Parliament at this time? Very well; you use it to take out the only institution dedicated to Italians abroad. Congratulations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Ferrari and Marcucci]] You went to five and a half million people during the election. What about you, friends of the League? We went together, dear friends of the League; we made the program together and took 170,000 votes. I have not seen in our programme the abolition of the Committee for Italians abroad. I have not seen in our programme the reduction of the representatives of the foreign constituency. I went to check it out and there wasn't even this point in the 5 Star program, which was also rewarded with the trust of 150,000 voters. You asked for and obtained the trust of 150,000 Italians residing abroad on the basis of a program that did not say that you would abolish the Committee for Italians abroad. He didn't say that you would reduce parliamentary representation to even four senators for 6 million people. I would also like to point out that Italians abroad are not those spots that you continue to paint, especially the media of this country. On the question of constitutional reform aimed at reducing the number of Members of Parliament we will propose an exception to the Constitutional Court. We will not wait for the Constitutional Court to invalidate ex post law, but we will bring an action. Judge Cartabia in Order No 17 of 2019 gave this possibility and we intend to make full use of it. We will block this harmful bill and we will not allow you, as long as we are here, to ban Italians abroad from exercising their political rights. I conclude by recommending that you are all Members of the Republic, you are all senators: this is a decision of the Senate of the Republic that will have enormous effects outside this House, because the Italians abroad see us, hear us and follow us. At this moment the Presidency Committee of the General Council of Italians abroad is meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: that too is a democratically elected body of which this country must be proud. They will be the megaphones of the decision you are about to make: so have respect and consideration for this matter and for Italians living abroad, because it is not just because you now control this Parliament that you can deny their rights. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u125	In the face of controversy, I would ask those who speak to the Presidency and not directly to their colleagues. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, the previous Senator Fantetti has said practically everything there was to say about this matter and the Brothers of Italy fully subscribe to his statement. I would just like to add a few points: the Committee for Italians abroad is not a favour that we do to our fellow citizens living abroad, as if it were a category to be protected, so we have to decide how much attention we have to pay to our communities abroad. Who has lived abroad and has had any experience abroad or who has a commercial activity that relates to abroad knows well that the presence of Italian communities abroad is a huge political and commercial wealth for Italy. All nations invest huge amounts to create a fabric of trade and political relations of interest in the different countries of the world, which create the humus necessary to engage in diplomatic and commercial relations and enrich themselves in relations and power at international level. Italy has always used its communities abroad as a direct contact in the different countries of the world. An entrepreneur who wants to invest in Argentina will have a huge ease, because there will find associations of Italians, established realities, people of origin or Italian citizenship who continue to have a very close relationship with Italy and do in fact all that work that other countries instead pay at a high price (which we could call facilitation or lobby). Imagine how much easier it is to open a business in South America for an Italian than a Pakistani: it doesn't really take a genius to understand that our communities abroad are a wealth for us. The matter of having recognized the right to vote to Italians abroad is certainly a battle that comes from the political reality to which I belong - of Tremaglia in the first place and of the Italian Social Movement and of National Alliance then - and that is certainly of identity, of those who for their own minded form claim that the Italian nation is not limited to those who have Italian citizenship, but is a broader concept; but there is also an aspect of utility and return of wealth for Italy, which is what I said before. To renounce to the Committee on the Issues of Italians abroad, as this Government is doing - because, with the reduction in the number of Italians abroad, we have already seen a first indication, as now, with the will not to confirm the Committee - is a wrong line for our national interests, which should strengthen the enormous peculiarity of Italy, that is its communities abroad. Anyone who has dealt with foreign relations knows, for example, how much every single European nation spends to open schools around the world. In fact, those who attend a particular school - whether French, Spanish or German - will find themselves tied to the nation in whose culture it has been formed in the years of the school, which becomes a wealth to time indefinite for those who have opened those schools. What does Italy do? It closes schools abroad and does not invest in this even the four-bit money needed to maintain close relations with its communities abroad. Let me conclude by simply saying that giving up our relations with our communities abroad is a serious act that continues to weaken Italy in our borders and abroad. For this reason, Brothers of Italy will of course vote in favour of the motion for the constitution of the Committee for Italians abroad. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Fantetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u128	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, my speech, which will explain the reasons for no to this motion, tabled by Senator Jacob and other senators, focuses on two key words, the first of which is incorrect and the second is self-referential. Let us start with inaccuracies, because they have been said different in this House, starting mainly from one: Italians living abroad certainly do not care that here the Senate starts a Committee, with the establishment of new chairs. Italians living abroad are interested in working the services for our communities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The other inaccuracies repeated over and over again, not only today, but also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Migration, concern the formation of the Standing Committee on Italians in the world and the promotion of the country system in the Chamber of Deputies. There, as you can see by opening the site, it is not an autonomous Committee, but it is a subcommittee of the House's Foreign Affairs Committee, composed of 21 Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I therefore come to the other question concerning the establishment of the Committee. Mr President, I, like Senator Jacob, have been a member of the Committee on the Issues of Italians Abroad in the last parliamentary term. The work carried out there over the years has shown me how self-referential the Committee itself was, how much it addressed, yes, our communities resident abroad, but how much it did not give feedback to the Senate, just as we can guarantee with the commitment of the entire Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration with the cognitive inquiry, to which my colleagues referred and which reminded Senator Pellegrini, that it will go on for the entire legislature and that it will be able to have all the Commissioners of the relevant standing Commission examined, that - I remember - is the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration of the Senate, all the issues that concern the communities of Italians in the world, their needs, their problems and their claims. I remember that there is a great novelty in this legislature, which involves the Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and Senate. If there were President Casini we could ask him, who was chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration in the last parliamentary term, how many times he participated in the work of the Permanent Assembly of the General Council of Italians abroad in five years of legislature: zero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, of course, together with the participation of the senators and elected Members abroad, who will not see their function affected at all, there is a great deal new. Since the beginning of the legislature, I, as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration of the Senate, and my colleague Marta Grande della Camera, have regularly attended the work of the General Council of Italians abroad. We do so with the knowledge that when we talk about the issues of our communities in this House, attention is reduced. We therefore want the attention to be paid to the work that the Permanent Commission on Foreign Affairs, Migration, will be able to do, to be complete. If we ask our communities - one - to be the main ambassadors of the country system in the world; two, to be the promoters of Made in Italy, especially by consuming Italian, we must guarantee the interest of the whole Senate of the Republic and this interest we can arouse if it is the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Migration and not a self-referential Committee. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Some Members have said that not setting up the Committee is a hostile act. But what hostile act? They still said that our communities abroad deserve respect and what better respect can be that of their issues that a permanent Commission deals with. Which one? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] My colleagues tell me. Other colleagues rightly said that over the years the role of all Italians who have emigrated to foreign countries has not been understood. Clearly, if the Committee has dealt with this in the past legislation, it is clear that it has not been possible to make it clear. Let's try another route. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A path of change destined to increase the visibility of all the communities of our country living abroad and above all of the awareness of all the senators, so that there is not a moment when a single organism, composed only of ten senators, can deal with the very important issues that affect our communities. I want to quote some data. Those in this House who are familiar with the work done by the Committee in four legislative acts are familiar with some data concerning our fellow citizens abroad. Dear colleagues, in the last year Italian citizens have started mainly from four provinces to live abroad and it is not the usual provinces of emigration, that is the provinces of South Italy, but are, in descending order for numbers, Milan, Rome, Genoa, Turin and Naples. The regions most affected by the new migratory phenomena in 2018, again, are not the usual Southern or Central-South regions. The first region of departure is Lombardy, with 22,000 people left in 2018, followed by Emilia-Romagna, with almost 13,000 and Veneto, with 11,000 people, then Sicily, a traditional place of emigration, with 10,500 and Puglia with 9,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, do we want to leave these issues to the attention of a simple Committee? Frankly, on behalf of my Group, I say no: a permanent Commission must deal with it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration, will deal with this with a cognitive survey involving all institutional actors, starting from the General Council of Italians abroad, to the Comites, embassies, consulates and all associations, both professional and non-professional, who assist our young people who go abroad. This will be done on the very basis of the problematic realities, but I must say a little about it by Senator Bonino, since we are talking about the establishment of the Committee. We will deal with this, therefore, because it is a central issue, just as we will deal with the crisis areas, where our communities live, from the very United Kingdom, for the Brexit affair, up to Venezuela, an issue that has been discussed at many sessions. I would remind you that the Commission of which I honour to be a member was the only Commission and the only institutional body in the country which at the same time has heard the Venezuelan Government and the opposition, which refers to Guaidò. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the innovative tools we need to equip ourselves with, and this is the reality and the way in which the majority in the Senate intends to proceed. So, I really don't want to see inaccuracies, hypocrisies and self-referential organisms. Italian citizens living abroad deserve more. They deserve the attention of the whole House, which can prove it by not setting up a Committee, that is, a very self-referential figure: I say this having lived it from within in the last parliamentary term. I would like to remind Senator Jacob that it is not enough to investigate the knowledge that has already been approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration, of which he is a member and of which he will be appointed as a minority rapporteur, that if that investigation is not enough, he should most likely refuse to be a minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u129	I invite you to address the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u130	PETROCELLI (M5S). The vote of the 5 Star Movement on this motion will therefore be against. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u131	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 24, tabled by Senator Jacob and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). MALPEZZI (PD). Tie it up! Tie it up! Congratulations to the 5 Stars!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u132	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00031 by Senator Mallegni and other senators and 1-00089 by Senator Boldrini and other senators on the cultivation and marketing of hemp. I call Senator Mallegni to explain motion No 31.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u133	Mr President, allow me to make a first remark: the motion was tabled in July 2018 and, frankly, it seemed to me a rather important "argument," partly because frankly we were waiting for a ministerial decree that should have intervened six months after the law was passed. It is not the responsibility of this Government; or rather, in July it was not the responsibility of this Government to fail to issue the ministerial decree, but obviously today, after ten months of government activity, the responsibility this Executive shares with the previous one. I refer to Law No 242 of 2 December 2016, published in the Official Journal on 30 December. By June 2017, a ministerial decree should have been issued to establish the famous percentage of active substance allowed within foods, beverages containing cannabis. I do not want to focus too much on the percentage of all this, but I would like to focus on the effects that have arisen since 30 December 2016 compared to the use, authorised by law, of this drug. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Mr President, at the end of the day we will ask all our colleagues to be prepared to do the hair analysis, as it was in fashion a few years ago, so we will see why the buzz is so strong. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u134	I think it's too much retaliation. Senator, continue with the illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u135	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). My hair, even if short, is available. I was saying that the problem lies not so much in the ministerial decree, which was necessary and important, but in the norm, in the famous law n. 242 of 2016, about which we are asked by whom it was approved. From Parliament? From this Senate Assembly? No, it was approved in the deliberating session by a Commission in which most of the members were absent. At that session of the Commission in which the law was passed in the deliberating session, Forza Italia did not participate, because it did not share the principle, the aims or the objectives of that norm; on the other hand, the Democratic Party Groups, obviously inspired by the norm, Movimento 5 Stars, New Centrodestro and the Group for Autonomies and alone, 14 or 15 people out of 315, have approved a rule that has crept into the streets, squares, families, businesses, everyday life. This is the theme. If we pretend that nothing has happened, it is even more serious: territory, young people, culture of legality, dark places, impossibility and inability on the part of the Forces of the Order to stop an absurd escalation, because there are no soft drugs and heavy drugs; drugs exist and this is another concept dear to all of us. There's just drugs. You should know that in 2017, then the year the measure was effective, there was 11.5 percent more sanctions raised by the Police for the use of narcotics. You should know that road accidents with injuries and deaths in 2017 were 1690, with a significant percentage, compared to the previous year's percentage, linked to the use of drugs. You must know that in the United States, within the states where there has been the legalisation of so-called light drugs, there has been a 6% increase in road deaths, all linked to drug use. Now, that is the question. What we want to understand today in the parliamentary debate (and I hope that it will also emerge, in the end, in the final vote) is whether those who have not participated in this legislative disaster and who today could have the numbers to be able to reverse the result have the will to do so. Is there a desire to do that? I hope also in those who supported it at the time because, when the outgoing Government, therefore prior to this, before leaving, through the figure of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health, asked the Higher Health Council for a view, an opinion, on the marketing and use of the so-called cannabis, even in a small percentage (the so-called cannabis light), the Higher Health Council said of the lapidary responses. Therefore, not Massimo Mallegni or Forza Italia, but the Board of Health said that due to the pharmacokinetic and chemical-physical characteristics, these substances can penetrate and accumulate in some tissues, including brain and fat, well beyond measurable plasma concentrations; that such consumption takes place outside of any possibility of monitoring and therefore the psychotropic effects that these can produce, both in the short and long term are dangerous; and, still, he said: "so as to avoid that the intake unconsciously perceived as'safe' and 'free of side effects' translates into a damage for themselves or for others." The High Health Council insists that, with regard to the issue of the use of so-called cannabis inflorescences, it should be noted that, in accordance with the above-mentioned opinion on their danger, whatever their percentage content, it is of course a matter of concern and recommends that, in the interest of individual public health, in application of the precautionary principle, measures be taken to prevent the free sale of these products. Well, what happens instead? That at every street corner we have what are probably called coffee shops in Northern Europe. We have places where light cannabis is sold in every beverage, in products, in candy, in candy. But only for those who have children and for the children is this problem? No. The problem also arises for people over 45, because that is another difficult moment in life, particularly at such a problematic stage from the socio-economic point of view. There are people who lose their jobs after forty - five or fifty years of age, and find themselves facing serious economic difficulties that sometimes do not allow families to move forward. What does someone do? It drowns these sorrows in a practicality of drug recovery. I shall conclude, President, by calling for a commitment from the Government - and I hope of all colleagues who consider themselves against the legalization of drugs - to urgently adopt, following an opinion expressed by the Higher Health Council, a measure for the immediate suspension of the marketing of all products and so-called light cannabis; to act urgently by providing for a stricter regulation of the methods of cultivation and marketing of hemp; to consider the opportunity to allocate in another way the economic resources referred to in paragraph 1 - because we also give it 700,000 a year to these people to go drugging our children [[Comments of Senator Mantero]] - and to issue urgently a ministerial decree, as required by Article 5 of the aforementioned law, to define the maximum levels of residues of THC allowed in food; to check whether the conducts of even known as Cannabis business school comply with the legal requirements. In short, in a word: who is in favour of drugs votes against; who is against votes in favour of our motion. [[Applause from the FI-BP Groups]] and FdI). MANTERO (M5S). Ignorant! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call Senator Bini to explain motion No 89.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u136	Mr President, first of all, I think that Senator Mallegni was wrong; he probably got confused and read another one. Law No 242 of 12 February 2016 laying down provisions for the promotion of the cultivation and agro-industrial chain of hemp provides, among its aims, for the support and promotion of the cultivation and the production chain of hemp as a crop that can contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact in agriculture, to the reduction of the consumption of soils and desertification and to the loss of biodiversity, as well as to the cultivation to be used as a possible substitute for surplus crops and as a rotational crop. The law supports and promotes the cultivation, processing and development of chains aimed at the production of textile products, semi-finished products to be used in bio-building, components, food products (mainly seeds, oils and flour). If the use of hemp as a textile product appears to be rather problematic for high costs, other sectors are particularly interesting for the prospects of achieving significant economic margins, which would allow the farmer to obtain higher prices for the raw material than those currently recognised for other productions. However, the law does not provide for the establishment of the supply chain table, which, as is the case for other crops, has the task of defining the activities to be undertaken for the support of the sector, starting from an analysis of the sector that highlights its potential and the points of weakness, identifying the lines of research that is most urgent to pursue, promoting the exchange of information of a technical and scientific nature, while directing the use of the resources available. Support for the field of beekeeping and the structuring of supply chains is provided for in the financial regulation provided for in Article 6 of the Law, according to which the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policies, in compliance with the European legislation on State aid, allocates annually a share of the resources available from the national plans of sector within its competence, up to a maximum of € 700,000, in order to facilitate the improvement of the conditions of production and processing in the hemp sector and a share of the resources entered annually in the forecast of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism policies, on the basis of the authorisation of expenditure referred to in Law No 499 of 1999, may be allocated, by decree of the Minister of Agriculture, to the financing of research and development projects for the production and processes of first transformation of hemp, aimed primarily at the recovery of genetic heritage and the identification of correct processes of mechanization. Given that, currently, in Italy, the stores grow shop dedicated to the sale of hemp with low levels of THC and derived products are more than 400 and recalling that article 18 -quater of Decree-Law No 148 of 2017, converted, with modifications, by Law No 172 of 4 December 2017, regulated the production and processing of cannabis for medical use, providing that cannabis for therapeutic use can be produced only and exclusively by the pharmaceutical plant in Florence that provides for the development of new plant preparations based on cannabis for subsequent distribution to pharmacies, which dispense them on a medical prescription not repeatable, the refundability is borne by the National Health Service and is subordinate to the indications of the individual Regions. This important provision has been introduced with the decisive contribution of numerous political groups of majority and opposition in the XVII legislature, in order to allow the sick people of this country the right to the therapeutic use of cannabis. Finally, given that it is a civil country's job to respond to the problems with the certainty of science and without the false fears arising from prejudices without any scientific basis (as, unfortunately, has sometimes been the case in this House), we have tabled the motion under consideration, which commits the Government to four precise points. First, it commits the Government to take the necessary steps to provide for the organic reorganization of the matter related to the agro-industrial chain of hemp in order to guarantee to all operators in the sector a certain regulation to follow, as well as to take the necessary initiatives to refute false fears in this matter, deriving from prejudices without any scientific basis. Second, the motion commits the Government to define, by decree of the Ministry of Health, the maximum residue levels of THC allowed in food, as provided for in Article 5 of Law No 242 of 2 December 2016, thus putting an end to the margins of uncertainty for a complete classification of the topic. Thirdly, the motion commits the Government to take every initiative useful to the official constitution of the supply chain table, in order to promote the real development of agreements with regard to both food and textile productions, and used in the field of bioengineering. Fourthly and finally, the motion commits the Executive to take every initiative aimed at allocating the resources identified by the aforementioned Law No 242 for the purposes indicated by the same. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u137	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and professors of the State Institute of Higher Education (Fermi-Mattei) in Isernia, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u138	I declare the debate open. Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u139	Mr President, together with the whole Group and our Parent Company, I would like to begin by thanking Senator Mallegni for tabling motion No 31, which allows us to bring back to this House the issues of drug addiction and not just the question of hemp, which is complex. There are aspects which concern agricultural production and supply chains, which are mentioned in the motion and in others. However, there is minimalism around this theme, because with the excuse that, as with all realities, cannabis can serve from the industrial, medical, clothing and for many other purposes, one then ends up ignoring the misuse of resources and the existence of ambiguity. I have asked for action to be taken to reflect on the issue of combating drug addiction, which is obviously linked to this motion, which contains a number of proposals. A few months ago the Higher Health Council, which was then demobilized, had also detected the danger of the so-called light cannabis. Colleagues, here we start - sometimes - from agricultural and productive aspects, we talk about the therapeutic use of certain substances and we end - then - to minimize the dangers or encourage a so-called playful use of them. The use of light cannabis can also have negative consequences and today the proliferation of shops and shops is almost an action of propaganda and promotion of legalization. Have you wondered why, in recent years, these centers are teeming everywhere? It can be said that in these cases we move below a certain threshold of the active substance. However, if the Higher Health Council, then dismantled (I do not know whether it had expressed its own free opinion), had pointed out dangers, I would urge them not to underestimate them. In addition, I would like to say to government representatives that I have read some interesting interviews with the Minister for Family and Disability, Fontana, who also has a delegation in the matter of contrasting addictions. I do not underestimate other forms of addiction: alcohol, for example, but today also ludopathy is a phenomenon that has had worrying social dimensions. But remaining on the issue of drug addiction, I would like to invite the Government not to confine itself to a periodic interview or to the bill. That's right. The drug dealer needs to be punished. I, too, have read with gruesomeness the news that came from Porto Recanati, days ago, of a foreign person - but let's forget if foreign or Italian, because it could happen to people of any nationality - who, going against hand with the car, killed two young parents who leave two children. And then it turns out that this person had been arrested, then apparently released, with possession of 225 kilos of hashish... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u140	Forgive me for a moment, President Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u141	In order, I address the benches of Forza Italia and the benches of the League. We're in the middle of something. Please, if you want to talk to each other, you can do it elsewhere, but allow those who are intervening to do it quietly and those who want to hear it. Go ahead, President Gasparri. Gasparri (FI-BP). Thank you, President. I was saying, this news story has brought us back to the topic of drug dealing, accidents and so on. When you say "who" is that he dies because of light drugs? "You should also look at indirect deaths, which are caused on the Italian roads, by alcohol and by drugs (only by drugs). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, road murder laws have been made and the rules have been tightened. But that story, a few days ago, makes me think of the impunity that the great drug dealers have, which then become, on the streets, killers of families: there is a connection. I saw that days ago, for example, the Congress of Democratic Magistrate performed on many laws and on many topics: it does not like self-defense and other, but I did not hear anyone do a self-criticism for some too early release. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I would like in Red and Democratic Magistrate to reflect on it from time to time, and so do we. The occasion of the motion is that of a reflection, not only on the repressive side, colleagues, for which someone said days ago: we are making the most stringent law for drug dealers. We support it, but today there is a problem of uncertainty, because some rules have been set aside. For example, there was the average daily dose, which was that above which a person could be considered a drug dealer and not a consumer, where the consumer is to be recovered from civil life, it is not that he must be thrown into prison, while the drug dealer must have another destiny. These considerations on hemp, cannabis, light cannabis, shops allow us to resume a reflection that the Government must make. The National Conference on Drug Addiction has not been held for more than ten years. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] The Department of Dependencies, which had had important seasons with center-right governments, is inert and inactive. So, as you can see, we are proposing a policy of prevention, of correct information about substances and their dangers, including light cannabis, even small shops. But there is a great underestimation. Mr Salvini also explained the proposal to tighten sanctions on a day-to-day basis, but he said: "I don't want to go to school and talk about it." Instead, it is in schools that we have to talk about the dangers of drugs, in an educational and non-repressive way, in order to inform people. This motion therefore raises a number of questions. Then we know the therapeutic effects: morphine also soothes the pains and is given in certain ways in stages of suffering and it is not that if the morphine soothes the pain in serious pathologies, then it is administered in playful aspects. Other substances, if they can be useful, must also be produced and managed in a very precise circuit. The Military Pharmaceutical Institute, located in Florence, also deals with the production of cannabis for therapeutic purposes, in a situation of control (provided that they are useful, but there are many drugs). We fear those who, knowing nothing about medicine, talk about the positive therapeutic effects of cannabis because they aim and legalize it and make it consume irresponsible especially by our minors. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I want to take this opportunity to remind you that the battles on legalization are no use either. It is said that this is how crime is defeated: colleagues, for crime, the proceeds of so-called soft drugs represent a minimal proportion of their profits. They make money with heroin, cocaine, chemical drugs. Even if we legalize the so-called light drugs - a term that I do not accept - we would go to scratch a small percentage and since of that small percentage three-quarters of consumers - alas - are minors, to whom we could not administer legal drugs (in theory, not even cigarettes could buy from the tobacconist without proving to be of age), we would not in any way scratch the proceeds of crime, as Gratteri explained, an important prosecutor of the Republic, who fought and fights drug trafficking. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The motion allows us to discuss all these things again. Of course, I share the provisions of the motion, which refer to the ministerial decree to define maximum residue levels of THC (tetrahydrocannabinol), in order to avoid a minimalist culture of the shop next door. If that light sells it under the house, it won't hurt much: this is the message that passes. Then whether it is light or not light, whether the active substance is in a certain amount (even the Higher Health Council, as I mentioned, has critically intervened on that light), there is still a risk of being addicted. I also tell the government to deal with the National Conference, the Sleeping Department and also with proper information on the dangers of drugs and support the therapeutic communities, because we who are against the legalization of drugs are, not by chance, the greatest supporters of those who recover drug addicts, who should not be given legal drugs (cannabis light or I don't know what) but should be given an alternative of life, without going to prison. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If today those communities, secular or religious, of various nature and type, have been opposed, it is useless to complain that there is no one who tends a hand, because in the SERT, with all respect for public operators, they give a little methadone, they do not give a help. This motion, which introduces some right considerations on THC, on the use and abuse of hemp, on the subject of light cannabis, on shops and small shops, I believe it is an opportunity to invite the Government (the motions are also acts of direction) to resume a strong initiative. The announcements of a bill and periodic interviews are fine, but we need a policy every day against addictions, to give correct messages, to educate people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Otherwise, we're here talking about food education, vegan culture, and then the self-destruction of people through drugs is not taken care of. We therefore welcome our motion, with its concrete proposals, but above all as a moment of reflection for Parliament to combat drugs, all drugs, with solidarity, with life and with education. The sale must be repressed, but addiction must be countered with values and healthy education. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u142	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u143	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation already lays down very strict rules regarding the use of hemp and its marketing. Trade in inflorescences (and generally of products derived from hemp) must be considered allowed if the content of THC does not exceed the limit of 0.6 per cent, set by Article 4 of Law No 242 of 2016 in relation to the cultivation of hemp. To date, after this limit, the product is subject to the discipline dictated by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990 and, having an amazing nature, cannot be marketed. In particular, the third penal section of the Cassation last 6 December 2018 confirmed that Law 242 of 2016 allows the marketing of products of the cultivation of hemp but under three conditions. The first is that it must be one of the permitted varieties included in the European Catalogue of varieties of agricultural plant species, which are characterized by the low dosage of THC. The second condition is that the percentage of THC in hemp should not exceed 0,2 per cent. The third is that the cultivation must be aimed at the realization of a series of products expressly and strictly indicated in the same law. It should be said that, at present, light cannabis (including inflorescences) and products derived from it do not have a specific standard which obliges inflorescences and derived products to comply with safety and quality criteria if consumed for human use. While respecting the limit of 0.2 per cent (or 0.6 per cent) of THC, in fact, these products do not enjoy ad hoc legislation for the production of products intended for human consumption, nor do they fall within the category of supplements or foods, the lawfulness of which is unclear and is left to personal and restrictive interpretations. This is why these products use the baitage of technical or collectible use to justify their sale, regardless of the content in heavy metals, pesticides, aflatoxins, molds and bacteria, even if in fact the consumer at home is free to smoke it, vaporize it, use it as a food ingredient or to prepare extracts. There are real health risks. And the extracts from inflorescence, it is undeniable, allow to obtain final products that, from a 0.6 percent starting in the flower, can reach to contain the 2, 3, 4 and up to 5 percent of THC in the finished extract, depending on the amount of inflorescence and the method of extraction used. Here, however, I highlight and want to focus on the fact that the heart of the problem is not centered, that is the possibility of the therapeutic use of cannabis. Unfortunately, in common knowledge, one tends to unify realities that have nothing to do with one another. Therapeutic or medical cannabis - a sector that should be encouraged - has nothing to do with the hemp of Law No 242 of 2016, for the diversity of genetics, cultivation techniques, content in THC and CBD and for the same mandatory controls of an industrial drug. In Italy, medical cannabis has been authorised as a substance to be used in galenic preparations carried out in pharmacy since 2013, followed by the production, sale and distribution of cannabis in 2015. The maximum quantity of medical cannabis inflorescences that can circulate in one year on Italian soil (i.e. the sum of that imported from abroad and that produced in Italy) is decided the previous year by the Ministry of Health, on the indication of the Central Office of Drugs (UCS). Although the market allows much more, there is a chronic lack of therapeutic cannabis. The quantities available annually are also lower than the requirements of the medical prescriptions. In an attempt to stem the problem, in November 2017 the Ministry of Health, together with that of the defense, launched a ban for the import of additional medical cannabis, which to date has proved insufficient. There is cultural prejudice, largely due to misinformation, which results in activities that further damage those who, in a professional way, work to provide patients with these types of medicines: the main Italian pharmacies that prepare therapeutic cannabis for patients have for years been subject to exceptional controls by AUSL, NAS and AIFA. The Ministry of Health's ability to carry out rigorous controls cannot be called into question, although in the past all this has resulted in delays in the supplies and commuting of patients looking for the pharmacy with the available product, but also in the renunciation of new pharmacies to the preparation of cannabis therapies. The World Health Organisation has also issued a statement recommending the reclassification of cannabis as a drug, indicating that THC products containing less than 0.2 percent are excluded from drugs, considering them to be non-drugs. I conclude with the hope that Italy too, in order to meet the needs of those patients with very painful conditions, will finally unlock the problem of the supply of therapeutic cannabis, leaving it exclusively to the prescription of the doctor and the preparation of the pharmacist. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u144	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u145	I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u146	Mr President, esteemed senators, the motions before us today have called for a debate on a particularly complex subject. It must be pointed out that they do not allow the Government to make definitive commitments, in the absence of the necessary legal and scientific details, which are not by chance, although they have already begun at the end of the last parliamentary term, they have not yet come to a single conclusion. It must indeed be said that there is some legal difference, which can be easily verified by the judgments currently available, and there is also a lack of scientific data. I have heard from the illustrious senators a number of positive points in this regard, which are also highly acceptable. Allow me, however, to make a little clarification, especially with respect to what Senator Gasparri has said. Beyond some statements, which may be partly acceptable, I felt that I had a kind of a somewhat distorted message, which concerns, for example, the judgment of the previous Higher Health Council which, according to the latter, might have been abandoned precisely for the opinion on hemp. This is a little perplexed, because it is equivalent to saying that the group of scientists enrolled in the Higher Health Council today are probably all prone to the use of cannabis. I then calm down Senator Gasparri who I will personally have all members of the Board of Health do the hair analysis if necessary. In any case, because of the high consideration that the Government assigns to the commitments made here, I immediately say that the complexity of the discipline introduced by law n. 242 of 2016 - on whose application I point out that not even unanimous sharing has been achieved at the judicial level - and the presence, moreover, of numerous and important profiles that involve a plurality of administrations, are all circumstances that do not allow to express a definitive notice, that would risk only to simplify and trivialize the multiplicity of aspects, which, I repeat, are both of a legal and scientific nature. It has rightly been recalled that the problem of cannabis directly involves several ministries, since the sale of food and sweets, as has been correctly said, or of products that can be used as smoke, can be set up, so they would be included in the legislation on tobacco. Last but not least, the problem of cannabis for therapeutic use, which has not been mentioned in these motions, but which is certainly another important aspect to treat, so the issue is extremely complex. The activities carried out by the Ministry of Health therefore show, first of all, that the possible risks to health lie in an abuse in the circumvention of the current discipline and, therefore, in a pathological profile of the conducts concretely put into practice, although they call for an alleged adherence to the legislation in force. I would point out, moreover, that in the exercise of its powers the Ministry of the Interior has provided on several occasions - last with circular of 15 January 2019 - to give operational indications to the Forces of the order and the Police forces that, while taking into account the complex framework of the matter, have provided an address in the activities of control and contrast to the conducts not conformed to the law. All that has been said, in reaffirming that the Government's assessment can only be negative on the whole of the motions presented, as proof of the seriousness of the activity it intends to carry out in the matter under discussion, it is believed that it can accept certain commitments, as specified below. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Is there a proposal for reformulation, Mr. Undersecretary? BARTOLAZZI, State Secretary for Health. For motion 31, Senator Mallegni's first signature, the Government gives an opinion contrary to commitments 1) and (5). On commitment 2) the opinion is in favour, provided that it is reworded as follows: "to assess the appropriateness, as a result of the necessary in-depth studies, both of a legal and scientific nature, already in place, of providing for a new regulation of the methods of cultivation and marketing of hemp." On commitment 3) the opinion is favourable provided that it is reworded as follows: "to evaluate the opportunity to allocate the economic resources referred to in paragraph 1 of article 6 of law n. 242 of 2016 also for other purposes, including research". On commitment 4) the opinion was in favour. As regards motion No 89, at the first signature of Senator Boldrini, on the undertaking 1) I express a favourable opinion, provided that it is reworded, such as commitment 2) of the first-signed motion Mallegni, as follows: It considers the need, as a result of the necessary legal and scientific studies, to provide for a new regulation on the cultivation and marketing of hemp. On commitment 2) I give a favourable opinion. I am against this commitment 3. On commitment 4) I express a favourable opinion on the condition that it is reworded as follows: "to evaluate the opportunity to allocate economic resources, referred to in paragraph 1 of article 6 of law n. 242 of 2016, also for other purposes, including research".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u147	I ask the proposers if they accept the reformulation proposals put forward by the government, starting with Senator Mallegni.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u148	Mr President, we would like to ask you for a minute, including to discuss this with our Parent Company.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u149	I'll give you a couple of minutes to take stock of the reformulation proposal. I ask Senator Boldrini if she accepts the government's proposal for rewording on motion 89, at her first signature.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u150	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the frank debate that has taken place and also for the commitment that the Government is making on our motion. I am sorry that we do not want to take steps to set up the supply chain, because its purpose was precisely to regulate the sector even better, because it was not provided for in Law 242 on food production. In order to refute what has been said, if there were a table of supply chain that also concerns food production, as well as textiles and those used in the field of bioengineering, more appropriate assessments could be made there. I'm sorry about that. On the other points and on the favourable opinion on the allocation of funds, a table is missing here too; it is fine that funds are allocated to research, but perhaps they need to be increased. I am therefore partially satisfied, but I respect the wording of our motion and accept the proposal for a rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u151	The Presidency takes note of this. I ask Senator Mallegni if he had a chance to form an opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u152	Mr President, I would like to thank the Government for the effort it has made, but we believe that the proposals for reformulation are meaningless. Only in order to try to argue and be accordingly courteous with respect to the commitment that the Government has put in the reformulation, let's say that with respect to point 2, where we ask to assess the opportunity, as a result of the necessary in-depth analysis of both legal and scientific nature, moreover already in place, to provide for a new regulation of the methods of cultivation and marketing of hemp, we had written something else. What is our goal? "Activate as a matter of urgency by providing for a more stringent regulation of the methods for the cultivation and marketing of hemp" The question is today, not in a certain period of time: because this is a method used lately, to shift the issue. Point 3 speaks of assessing the opportunity to allocate economic resources, and we even say that we allocate them in another way, because from our point of view they should not be allocated differently, but in another way, and certainly not according to paragraph 1 of Article 6 of Law 242 of 2016. On the commitment to point 4) the opinion is favourable and I understand that the Government has made itself available, for which I thank him, but I would say that, given its complexity, if there were an opportunity to vote for separate parties these commitments, in the general interest, what could be approved could be a step forward, compared to a lack of regulatory situation because it lacked a significant measure of the Ministry, and could help the whole territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u153	Senator Mallegni, there is an opportunity, provided that the House agrees to vote for separate parts. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, we are now voting on whether or not to proceed to a split vote, and then we are continuing, partly because explanations of vote obviously cannot but be a consequence of how we express ourselves. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on motion No 31 tabled by Senator Mallegni. It's not approved. At this point, I ask Senator Mallegni if he accepts the request for reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u154	I am very sorry that I cannot express the point of view individually, because it could have been constructive. Consequently, I can only take note of a denial that obviously corresponds to a further denial on our part.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u155	On the other hand, the rewording, including the point on which the Government was against, of motion 89, was accepted at first signed Boldrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u156	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the representatives of the youth section of the Cultural Association Icaro di Civitavecchia, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u157	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u158	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u160	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, we would have preferred an overall debate on the problem of drugs in Italy. We had asked, at the Conference of the Leaders, that a motion of Brothers of Italy be also scheduled, which was presented in June 2018, precisely to ensure that the discussion did not focus exclusively on partial aspects, because we are in the presence of a real national emergency. This is said by the data that are disseminated in an official way: one third of the population in the age group between fifteen and sixty-four years of age has made use of drugs at least once in their lives. A percentage that even reaches 43 percent when considering the age group between fifteen and thirty - four years old. Furthermore, the report of the European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction states that Italy is the second largest country in the European Union for cannabis use and the fourth for cocaine use. No less worrying are the data about the phenomenon of drug addiction in terms of people reported; an increase in the 2007-2017 decade by over 6%, with an increase in drug operations of the Forces of the Order that exceeded 21 percent. Confiscated data show an increase in cocaine quantities by 55%, 64.9% for hashish, even 237 percent for synthetic drugs and marijuana, even 963.6 percent for marijuana. These data tell us all about the concern that each of us must live and I would like to remind you, as Senator Gasparri has already done, that the National Conference on the problems related to the spread of drugs was held last time in Trieste in the distant part of 2009. We have also set up a permanent observatory in the Council Presidency since December 2017, but we have no record of its activity. This is to say that certainly the aspects under discussion today are important and I want to declare on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group our support for the motion of Forza Italia, illustrated by Senator Mallegni. I believe that, after the concerns raised by the Higher Health Council, we have a duty, beyond ideological models, to put the health of our citizens and, in particular, of our young people first. Nor do we underestimate the fact that we believe that a further push to the model of social de-responsibility, of drugs at hand, although with a de-potential THC, represents, in particular for our young people, another deleterious opportunity to direct their lives. Drugs have destructive effects on man's mental abilities and truly harmful effects on our society. We therefore believe that the 360 degree struggle must be a joint commitment. We are absolutely in favour of the announcement, which has been made, of the tightening of penalties for drug dealers, but we think that there is a need for cultural action to affect social life by proposing a model that rejects drugs. We need actions, we need the story of the experiences of those who have experienced the error and those who work in this area and are engaged in recovery, we need action within our schools, to tell our children that transgression is not this, this is only a health damage. Today being unconventional and transgressive means being committed to giving a positive outlet to your brain, to give an outlet in terms of cultural commitment, social engagement in volunteering and perhaps in the highest form of civil passion, which is politics, to improve our homeland and therefore our national community. We expect a strong commitment from the Government in this respect, but also concrete, because repression is certainly the antibiotic necessary to fever, but there is a need for a vaccine, that is to promote and strengthen the monitoring system, to promote effective information campaigns especially among the youngest and to urgently strengthen the National Action Fund for the fight against drugs, with the target of at least 50 million euros, and to expand the tasks of the Department for drug policies, precisely to achieve a counter-action that is synergistic. For these reasons we are voting in favour of motion No 31 tabled by our colleagues in the Forza Italia Group, because we are convinced and agree with the principle that there is no such thing as light drugs, but drugs. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u161	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u162	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u163	Senator Boldrini, I would ask you to state whether, in addition to accepting the proposed rewording, you intend that point 3 of the provisions, on which an opinion was expressed contrary to the Government, be removed from the text of the reworded motion. BOLDRINI (PD). Yes, Mr. President. Mr President, my fellow Senators and members of the Government, I have to clarify a little, because I believe there has been a terrible confusion in the debate we have had. We are in fact talking about three different types of cannabis, because, if the name is for all the same, they are completely different. In fact, we are talking about Law No. 242 of 2016, which includes Provisions for the promotion of the cultivation and agro-industrial chain of hemp and of Law No. 172 of 2017 on therapeutic cannabis, which has been specifically approved to regulate the production and processing of cannabis for medical use, providing that hemp for therapeutic use can be produced only and exclusively by the military pharmaceutical chemical plant of Florence, which provides for the development of new plant preparations, based on cannabis, for the subsequent distribution to pharmacies, which dispense it behind a medical recipe not repeatable, refundability is borne by the National Health Service and is subject to the indications of the individual Regions. Among other things, the Florence plant also has the faculty to carry out clinical studies on the subject. Instead, there has been talk here of recreational cannabis, which is another thing and which has an active substance (the famous THC) superior to what we are talking about now and therefore that mentioned in Law 242 of 2016, which concerns agri-food production. So there has been some confusion here. I must also say that the subject of the substance intake during adolescence, which has been discussed by my colleagues, is very open, but the motion under discussion did not present this argument. It is a subject which - if you will - we can open up, but at another time, certainly not during the examination of the text of this motion. In fact, if we must remember how it was born, law n. 242 of 2016 has responded to the expectations of the Italian canapicolo world, which has hoped and still hopes for a fair re-evaluation of a culture that in the past has been one of the main voices of the economy of vast areas of some regions of our country. The legislation covers a variety of sectors related to the cultivation, processing and promotion of the use and final consumption of semi-finished products coming from local chains, the development of territorial chains that enhance research, local integration and the real economic sustainability of innovative semi-finished products for the industries of different sectors and finally also the realization of works of bioengineering and land reclamation and educational and research activities. It also provides for obligations on the farmer, as well as controls and sanctions. It is, therefore, a law that had provided for many things. I also remember that since the end of the fifties ever greater discredit has grown around a culture that instead until the early twentieth century had seen us be world leaders in terms of both quantity and quality of the product realized. Law 242 of 2016 gave a response to a sector that went into crisis because of the unacceptable and instrumental approach to the most famous Indian hemp, the intensity of work and also the competition, especially from the United States, of less expensive and more modern synthetic fibres. Not everyone knows that with hemp you can also make paper, you can make fabrics, ropes, oils, medicines; you can use it as fuel and probably the development of this sector is a problem for all those sectors that have been enriched and that continue to do so by polluting with plastic and oil. Despite the long period of blocking production - I am always talking about agri-food production - caused by prohibition policies, today the continuous increase in oil prices and the increasing attention to environmental protection have led to a resumption of the cultivation and production of industrial hemp in many European countries such as France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Poland and Romania (so we are not alone). I believe that, as has been done in this House, we need to have a different approach to this issue and get out of too ideological mental patterns. We have talked about drugs and our children; we have talked about issues other than what we are dealing with in this motion. I repeat that the law in question also provided - and I am sorry that the Government did not accept it - for the establishment of a table which, as is the case with other crops, had the task of defining the activities to be undertaken for the support of the sector, starting from an analysis of the sector that highlights its potential and the points of weakness. Perhaps this would have led to a different reflection and could have been done today in this House. I've already talked to you about therapeutic cannabis. It is very important, we know it and we are also supporting laws in favour of those who have problems from the physiological point of view: I am talking, one on all, about a disease that we would like to recognize, that is fibromyalgia; the use of therapeutic cannabis can only be good for these patients, can have positive effects. As can be seen, therefore, there is no need to create alarmism; we are not talking about liberalisation, but about regulating and applying existing legislation. I would remind you that the World Health Organization has called for the removal of cannabis from the lists of the most dangerous substances, thus recognising the legitimate therapeutic use of cannabis and cannabinoids, in contrast to the 1954 position which urged efforts to abolish cannabis from all medical practices. With this document, the WHO (therefore, we are talking globally) recommends the removal of the substance from the table containing harmful substances for reduced therapeutic use and its inclusion in the table with therapeutic value at low risk of abuse. Of course, we are always talking about very low content. At this point, I believe that it is really the task of the Ministry of Health, in agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, because we are talking about these two important laws, to carry out further studies and in-depth studies to refute false fears in this matter, deriving from prejudices without any scientific foundation. That is why the Democratic Party supports this motion - of course with the establishment of Law 242 of 2016 - and, at the same time, calls for specific commitments, which - precisely - are the ones we put in our motion. A commitment, in particular, is to complete the process of approval of the decree - provided for in Law 242 of 2016 - necessary to fix the maximum levels of THC residues allowed in food, as provided for in Article 5 of the law, thus putting an end to the margins of uncertainty for a complete classification of the topic. So, that's what we want: to regulate where it's right that it is. The laws are there, we have to make them active and we ask the government for a commitment to this. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u166	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we think that there is no confusion on this issue and that it is all very clear. We are faced with two motions that want, yes, to regulate the sector, but who more stringently (with the motion coming from Forza Italia) and who instead in a slightly wider way (with the motion coming from the Democratic Party). In fact, we read, on the one hand, of a more stringent regulation on the methods of cultivation and marketing of hemp (the motion n. 31 of Forza Italia, at the first signature of my colleague Mallegni), and, on the other hand, of taking initiatives always to reorganize the whole chain, but adopting initiatives necessary to refute false fears in the matter deriving from prejudices without any scientific foundation. So, it's all very clear as far as we're concerned. As well as, while appreciating all the efforts that the Government has made in meeting both motions (which we thank the Government for, we would miss), it is clear that a topic like this creates deep divisions a little everywhere: they are issues that we hear and talk about for years. Therefore, without going into the substance, because our idea is quite clear, we believe that these issues cannot be resolved by motions in this House but that, if anything, we must follow a legislative process, provided that there are then proposals that go in one direction rather than another. We believe that the Commission should be able to adopt, verify, study and make all possible hearings, but that a decision cannot be taken here. Also why, if it is Parliament's job, do we then commit the government? But whether it is Parliament, possibly, if it has the numbers and the strength, to go in one direction rather than another or to leave everything as it is. That is why, since this is not the seat, we shall vote against both motion No 31 tabled by Forza Italia and motion No 89 tabled by the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u167	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u168	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u169	BINETTI (FI-BP). Mr President, members of the Government, I agree with Mrs Boldrini's premise on a number of different draft laws. I believe, however, that the fundamental point for all of us is to know a minimum the "historical thread" of these laws. I am referring to the latest legislation. Meanwhile, Parliament's attention to therapeutic cannabis has always been very high. I personally remember the intervention on palliative care (present in the law), with which was lightened all the prescriptive mode of this type of medication, just because the patient did not have to go with the photocopy of the recipe to make another to be able to have the medicines he needed to face his situation, with all the pain and suffering it entails. However, it is quite well known that the main therapeutic indication of cannabis, having a muscle relaxing effect, covers, for example, all contracturing pathologies and some forms of epilepsy. These are the therapeutic indications for the election of cannabis. But that is not what we are talking about, because Parliament has always - at least in the last ten years - voted in favour of therapeutic cannabis and its therapeutic use. However, I would like to point out that in the last parliamentary term the rule on therapeutic cannabis has been removed from a law that actually provided for the liberalisation of the use of cannabis. Only the idea of returning its use to the exclusive therapeutic purpose allowed the adoption of the law in the Chamber, otherwise in the debate that would arise the opposition would have been very strong and very intense. I mean that we are talking about it here today not because we are concerned about uses, for example, as fuel or for fabrics: we all agree that that food supply chain can have all its reason to exist. Here we are talking about cannabis because we assume a precise, strong and concrete responsibility towards those who, by using cannabis, somehow get caught in the meshes of what I personally continue to consider a drug and therefore face quite heavy consequences. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Gentlemen, it is true that not all those who, as they say in jargon, make a joint then become addicted; we all agree, but the opposite is true: all those who become addicted to it started with the joint. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, I'll read you some data. Do you know where it came from? From the annual report to Parliament on the state of drug addiction in Italy, sent to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, - Department for Drugs Policies. I want to remind the Government who signs this report: the Ministry of the Interior (I do not mention all the Directorates for simplicity), the Ministry of Justice (with a whole series of Directorates) the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Education, Regions and Autonomous Provinces, the Health Commission of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces. the Higher Institute of Health, the National Institute of Statistics, the National Research Council and a series of national focal point experts. Gentlemen, if you will allow me, because it is very simple, at the end of the sitting I will send this report to each of you from my computer because what I will tell you in a few minutes is data that I simply copied from that report. The authority of what I tell you does not come from me or, if you like, from an experience gained in forty years of honest work as a child neuropsychiatric. No, it comes from the numbers that several ministries have transmitted to us in their report to Parliament. They are available to everyone and they are numbers, figures, data that can't help but worry us.; First of all because cannabis use has grown (one in three boys), and because the age at which cannabis is used has decreased. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] So, gentlemen, since a principle strongly shared by all of us is that of informed consent, I wonder what information these minors have. What consensus can I give if they do not have clarity of the consequences they face? The report to which I refer is about 200 pages, so it is a bit heavy but it is important, and it tells us precisely that. It tells us that very often the use of drugs - even cannabis - is not isolated. Often those who use cannabis, on weekends also resort to that particular practice that is the intake of alcohol in doses if we want goliardic, but such as to lead to the drunkenness of minors. Gentlemen, we know perfectly well what happens in so many clubs, we can't hide. We know - it is data circulating these days - that a form of synthetic cannabis at very low cost is coming, is invading the territory and enters the schools. We know perfectly well that, inside schools, drug dealers are the same minors who thus obtain their dose and because they are not touchable, so to speak. We know that there is a devilish cunning that puts these people in a position to approach and approach this consumption more and more. A few days ago a fact happened. I am not just referring to car and bus accidents that have been mentioned, or episodes of violence, including among children (who can get to rape), committed under the influence of drugs. At this moment I am also referring to all those forms of behavior that presuppose the suspended aggression that leads to the saying: That's one who's made himself. As I said, a few days ago on the "Corriere della Sera" narrated the episode of a father who had entered the famous grove near Rogoredo, Milan, to look for his son. (17.30) (Following BINETTI). He found it in such desperate and devastating conditions that he ended up passing him the 20 euros needed to get the dose: not to see it like this and take it home, hoping to do something else. We know that there is an increasing number of people trying to be welcomed into communities and we know how difficult it is, if these communities do not have economic resources and qualified staff, that people really come out of it. We also know how frequent relapses are and how many people are in prison for exactly this reason. This argument leads some people to say: But then we reduce, remove, abolish, empty our prisons, sending these kids out. I agree prison doesn't cure and it doesn't rehabilitate. I agree that these communities very often find it difficult to rehabilitate people. However, we must work on prevention and on a certain fringe of people. Very often even parents do not realize when their children are beginning to consume more joints than they could endure. Two years ago, the first prize of the competition "Leggi in sanità" was awarded to a woman for a beautiful story, entitled "Suffice the wind in the heart of my son", in which we tell all a difficult and tiring itinerary, which is not only that of a boy, but of a family, of emotional contagion. We know that there is a sort of "emotional vampirism" - as it is defined - that approaches troubled children. There are also tests that are being carried out to identify the highest-risk children. Gentlemen, we are talking about this: the proliferation that there has been - I say in Rome, but I am told in Italy - of shops where it is possible to buy drugs theoretically at very low concentration. In fact, these stores have multiplied and there are no proper controls. It's amazing. What is the most dangerous element of these stores? The idea of easy accessibility with which in them - the previous colleague called them coffee shops - this type of substance can be obtained (also in the form of candy, as well as smoke). This reduces the size of supervision. As a Parliament we must take responsibility and we must be able to say cor meum vigilat. We have to, because the numbers are so high that - then - we will not know how to intervene later. So don't at least take away our right to be worried. Do not take away the responsibility of making a strong preventive action; do not treat us by people who do not realize. We are not prohibitionists of not knowing what: we are responsible educators and aware of future generations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u170	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u171	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u172	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it seems to me that there has been some confusion in the examination of these two motions, because hemp or cannabis is a plant with many functions and functions, and it is a plant of which nothing is thrown away. Law 242 of 2016 has tried to regulate, as a first step, an area that, in addition to concern the health of all of us, concerns the economic sector of our agriculture, often considered to be sub-order. I would point out that the history of cannabis is very ancient. It is a plant that must certainly be re-evaluated beyond any misleading prejudice. It was already used to build ropes, ship canvases, paper and extract essences for medical purposes. Very diffused in North America, but also in Italy (until the last century), Country that was great exporter of fibers towards the various marineries of Europe. Then, about a century ago, in the era of prohibition, it was banned under the pretext of intrinsic psychotropic properties and thus began its decline. Today, however, the World Health Organisation, after careful evaluation, has recommended that the entire cannabis plant be removed from Table IV of hazardous substances of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, i.e. from the table containing harmful substances of extremely reduced medical and therapeutic value. The World Health Organisation also calls for the inclusion of certain pharmaceutical preparations based on cannabis in Table III of the Convention. But it is appropriate to distinguish the light hemp or cannabis, provided for by Law No 242 of 2016, from the cannabis we define as medical, used and cultivated for pharmaceutical purposes. The hemp plant is useful for producing natural fibers, flour, oils, beer, cosmetics and natural drugs. It is also able to release a considerable amount of organic material into the soil, increasing its fertility, and is also a counter to desertification and loss of biodiversity. It can be very useful in crop rotation; it lends itself very easily to the biological method and is to be considered a great resource in terms of circular bioeconomy. The most recent interest in fiber plants in general, and in hemp in particular, is mainly due to the opportunity to achieve biomaterials for different types of artifacts, thus replacing synthetic fibers. From the commercial point of view it is important to point out that the phenomenon of the sale of products derived from industrial hemp has quickly spread in Italy, together with the increasing interest for non-psychoactive cannabinoids such as cannabidiol (CDB) used for cosmetic products. On the subject, as some have already had the opportunity to explain, a recent judgment of the Court of Cassation (section VI penale, n. 4920 of 2019) has been expressed that the lawfulness of the cultivation of cannabis, as provided for in law n. 242 of 2016, also derives the lawfulness of the diffusion of its products containing the active substance THC to a degree less than 0.6 percent. In the sense that products with THC less than 0.6% could no longer be considered (for legal purposes), narcotic substances. This pronunciation has always established the value of the general principle that the marketing of goods which do not present intrinsic characteristics of illegality must, in the absence of specific prohibitions or preventive controls provided for by law, be considered permitted within the general power of persons to act for the satisfaction of their own interests. The Movimento 5 Stars knows the topic well and, already during the last legislature, has promoted the relaunch of the hemp chain with concrete actions and with the advancement of a proposal then become law. I am referring to the aforementioned Law No 242 of 2016, which was created to lay the foundations for an important sector of the agricultural economy. The cultivation of this plant, which should have led to one of the growth possibilities of the sector, unfortunately, has been stopped due to determining aspects not regulated by the same law. Recently, the scientific community has increasingly paid attention to the possible use of the various active substances derived from medical cannabis, among the most important: cannabidiol (CBD), a substance not recognized as psychotropic, and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a psychotropic substance, to be used for multiple therapeutic purposes. In scientific literature there are countless researches to testify to the enormous benefits of the use of active substances; these studies and the growing interest of research suggest that these derivatives can in the near future take on great importance and value for the pharmacological sciences. Currently, in Italy, people with a medical prescription are allowed to buy these substances at pharmacies that dispense high THC cannabis. Many pharmacists carry out these Galenic preparations in compliance with the current regulations, following the indications in the medical prescription that shows the value of THC to be given to the preparation, starting from the raw material (dry medical cannabis inflorescences) available on the pharmaceutical market and purchased by the pharmacies that have requested it. Second rule, this preparation must be done by extemporaneous procedure and ad personam and cannot, therefore, be prepared in batches. That is why this procedure is already very far-reaching. Only part of the domestic demand is met by the military pharmaceutical institute in Florence, which fails to meet the demands of growing domestic demand. The rest of medical cannabis comes from abroad according to official channels and the prices for patients also reach prohibitive values. At this point, it is evident the need to find the raw material in Italy as possible and to streamline the procedures of galenic preparation for therapeutic use. Needless to hide the possibility that today, through the Internet and in an increasingly globalized world, anyone can circumvent regulations and rules and do so very easily. It would be desirable to promote research in order to be able to extract and separate from industrial hemp these active substances, after strict control, in order to achieve an increase in production which would lead to a desired lowering of prices. This procedure could put our country in line with other European countries and the United States and Canada, which are investing heavily in research on these new drugs and the extraction of cannabinoids from raw material. The possibility of extracting these active ingredients that can be used in the pharmaceutical field could revive the interest in the cultivation of industrial hemp in full field, in compliance with the current legislation of reference and facilitate the opening of processing centers in our territory, resulting in increased employment. Thanking the Government for the willingness it has shown, I conclude, according to what has already been said in the preamble, given the confusion that has arisen in this House on the subject and on the two motions, for all the reasons set out above as well as for certain topics of the motions under consideration that in various ways we consider backward and even misleading, announcing the contrary vote of the Movimento 5 Stars on both motions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u173	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students of the Istituto comprensivo (Gianni Rodari - Giuseppe Moscati) of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u174	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I call on Senator Mallegni and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 31. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of motion No 89 (text 2), tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u175	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00067 by Senator Romeo and other senators, 1-00086 by Senator Bernini and other senators, and 1-00090 by Senator Boldrini and other senators, on measures to combat cancer. I inform you that the agenda for the G1 meeting was presented, signed by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Boldrini and Castellone and other Senators. The relevant text is distributed. That is why I would like to ask the authors to explain the motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 5, 9, 9, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 11, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12,
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u176	Mr President, following the presentation of the G1 agenda, I withdraw motion No 67.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u177	Mr President, I withdraw Amendment No 86.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u178	Mr President, I would like to say that we could still explain our motions, because we are all part of the same intergroup on the fight against cancer. So if we wanted to expose them, we could possibly do that. Of course, we have agreed on an agenda signed by all Members of this intergroup, but we would have liked each of us to set out our own intentions. The important thing is that we all agree on a shared agenda, with the commitments we have set out in this single agenda. This is a commitment we had made with the intergroup on the fight against cancer, of which all the parliamentary groups are members. I am only sorry that this could have been a way to find us immediately united in relation to such a cross-cutting theme. I expected this request not to speak immediately about the motions to be communicated earlier. However, since the other two first signatories to the motions have decided not to intervene, I also withdraw motion No 90, of which I am the first signatories.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u179	Mr President, as a co-signator of the Romeo motion, I too agree with the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u180	At this moment, therefore, the G1 agenda remains.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u181	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to request that the G1 agenda be signed as the Brothers of Italy Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u182	I ask Senator Romeo to speak on this request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u183	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). There's no problem, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Bertacco, you have the floor. BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, in recent times we have had a good time with regard to the results of medicine in the fight against cancer. I like to remember that a few days ago, at the Padua Hospital, a liver transplant was performed for the first time with a living donor, a great result of Italian medicine that I believe should represent a pride for all of us. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] . I would like to start with the word 'hope', which often occurs among cancer patients. We would like this hope to be transformed into the word "victory" in the shortest possible time with the defeat of the cancer disease, which only in Italy affects about 3.3 million people, that is to say about 5 percent of the population. We are still waiting, but we hope that the National Cancer Register will be implemented as soon as possible, because I believe that it can also become a useful tool to prevent the fake news that often turn on this topic and to have a clear picture and, above all, a mapping of the areas where there is a true and higher incidence of cancer. The most important profile in the motion was, however, the recognition of psychoncology, which I believe represents a step forward for the total responsibility of the patient because often, at the moment when an evil like this is communicated, the first sensation is that of loneliness and the search for a fast solution, which can still give hope, even if not always this is accompanied by the ability and lucidity to cope with such a disease. I therefore think that psychology is a particularly important tool for helping all families, who are totally involved in this type of problem. I also believe that we must work very hard on prevention campaigns: from here to two days will be celebrated on 8 March, the festivity of women. In all these years we have heard stories of courage and victory from women and the great steps forward that are made for breast cancer treatment. Information is therefore important and, especially, the ability to transmit to the population how fundamental it is first of all to inform and above all to adhere to all the prevention campaigns that are carried out on the territory, because early diagnosis often and willingly translates into life possibilities for the sick. I am also convinced that the same access to new therapies, but above all to internships and clinical trials, should be more regulated and facilitated, giving correct information on the territory, including through regional tables. Clearly, everything cannot be dealt with on one agenda, but I would like to conclude my brief speech - and I address it to the Government - with the hope that particular attention will be paid to Italian research in the future. I started by telling of a great success of our universities and hospitals. I like to close thinking that research should be supported, but above all financed, more than has been done so far, because researchers and scientists who are in the world often and willingly have not only an Italian surname, but are Italian. I believe that this must be remembered and a serious policy must be put in place with regard to research at all levels. The other need that has not been recalled here, but surely it was only a forgetfulness, is to pay particular attention to pediatric oncology. For other diseases too, the paediatric aspect is of fundamental importance and it would be a good signal, in terms of funding for these departments, to pay attention to it. I am also referring to the structuring of departments that must be child-friendly. We are talking about a problem that needs serious attention. I believe that a policy of attention in hospitals to paediatric patients can and should be implemented. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u184	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we are pleased that we have reached a common agenda on this issue. I would just like to reiterate that on 7 February 2018 the Women's Health Association, together with all 23 associations that are part of this network that tries to help cancer patients, handed out a document to all political parties and all parties, before the last elections, signed it. I tabled motion No 67 only after sending hundreds of e-mails, because it belongs to the inter-group in Parliament and against cancer, but a few colleagues have signed the motion, and then they will find similar motions in the Chamber. The important thing, as a pragmatic Lombard, is that we get to the goal and I am not here to make controversy, but it is clear that if we are part of the Intergroup, and we have all signed the manifesto, we should all propose it again and then sign the motion that I have tabled. Our motion fully incorporates the parliamentary agreement, signed by the 23 associations; it is divided into 15 items and the same items have remained on the agenda. The theme of the cancer caregiver, which was not included in the original motion, has been added, but the most important points are: the formation of a new national cancer plan, based on the centrality of the patient and his therapeutic path; the regional cancer and haematological networks, to which must be implemented in connection with the national cancer register; the development and adoption of diagnostic-therapeutic welfare protocols (the famous PDTAs for the different forms of cancer); the permanent access of patient associations to the institutional tables, because let's not forget that this association does so much for patients and helps, even in hospitals, make the patient more comfortable and can better overcome the psychological aspect. Therefore, they play a fundamental role and in some cases these associations do even more. The other commitment is to maintain adequate and sustainable funding from the Fund for innovative cancer drugs. On this front we have seen on more than one occasion how the work of researchers and researchers, precisely with innovative methods, is leading to the treatment of tumors that until a few years ago left the patient little chance of survival. Instead, today, with these innovative therapies, progress has been made and considerable progress has been made also to facilitate access to the famous molecular diagnostic tests, suitable for the detection of personalized therapies, another absolutely fundamental aspect. Equally important is the fact that all regions complete the establishment of the famous breast units - a theme on which we have been fighting for a long time - whose deadline at Community level expired in 2016. On the issue of autonomy, however, this motion goes in the direction we all want, namely to put in place more effective communication campaigns to promote participation in cancer screening provided for and guaranteed by the essential levels of assistance. These are the programmatic points that everyone shares and are the ideal path for taking charge and treating the oncology patient, as has also been said by the previous colleague. I stress the important contribution of the voluntary sector and civil society to stimulating issues that do not have the media resonance that politicians often seek, but I believe that it is essential to go in this direction and ensure that the Intergroup succeeds in achieving concrete results. It also existed in the last parliamentary term, with the accession of all political forces: therefore there is the idea of continuing. We therefore hope that the Government will begin with some concrete action to meet these needs, which are absolutely important. That is the thrust of the speech and also the explanation of vote, saying that on the agenda, which is shared, there can only be a vote in favour. [[Applause from the LN-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u186	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u187	Mr President, I apologise to President Romeo for being careless not to consider the motion. Unfortunately, I believe that we have had this disenchantment in many senators, otherwise we would have signed it immediately. When Senator Bertacco recalled the success of the liver transplant in Padua, I had a certain emotion, because in the XVI Legislature I was the rapporteur of a bill whose approval allowed in Italy the partial organ transplant between living beings when it was not yet allowed, except for the kidney, unlike in other countries. Thanks to that law, on the other hand, partial transplantation of liver, intestines, pancreas, etc. is now allowed, and it was very nice that it was approved in the deliberating session with the agreement of the whole Health Commission on the subject. We know that in Italy 3.3 million patients live with cancer, or 5% of the population: there are 373,000 new cases a year, as it shows how this disease can now be kept under control, through a job and an approach involving the National Health Service. This is a challenge that concerns politics very closely. Senator Romeo recalled the pact for highlights that before the elections the associations asked all political parties to sign. On 23 October, the parliamentary Intergroup "Together" was officially rebuilt for a commitment against cancer, which was born precisely from the agreement between the 21 associations of cancer patients of the project "La Salute": a good to defend, a right to be promoted. It is therefore an Intergroup consisting of all the parliamentarians who have among the main objectives the zeroing of the considerable disparities in treatment due unfortunately to the different managements within the individual regions, which determine times and quality of the performances profoundly different, as we all unfortunately know. In our motion we recall a number of points which I would like to highlight today. First of all, funding for innovative oncology and non-cancer medicines; we expressly call for financial coverage for cancer drugs through an increase in the medium to long term fund, with a constraint for its use also for innovative non-cancer medicines, which will soon arrive in Italy and will be able to completely change the quality of life of people, giving them back health care. Another important point for us is to facilitate the timely access of patients to the innovation of diagnosis and therapy, overcoming the disparities between European countries. It is also important to ensure financial coverage of gene therapies through medium- and long-term funding models with destination constraints. Only in this way can we really respond to fundamental research for this and other diseases; knowing that research times require medium to long-term funding, to arrive at results without perhaps starting a research path and then interrupting it because the funds are no longer being paid. An important point, which I ask can be included on the agenda that we will share, is to adopt one or more legislative decrees for the introduction of provisions for the full integration of the figure of the family caregiver into the legal order, recognizing the specificity of the oncology caregiver and activating the network of home palliative care without unnecessary expectations and excessive bureaucracies. This is an important point. The other points have already been highlighted, but I remember that more than 45% of patients are treated with palliative care at home; it is important to recognize this because social services are very lacking, especially in some regions. I therefore believe that recognizing the family caregiver for the cancer patient is very important and I would ask that at least this item be added to the agenda that we are all ready to subscribe to. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u188	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u189	Mr President, although I am pleased to have reached agreement on the G1 agenda on support for the fight against cancer, I would also like to join Mr Rizzotti. I didn't see Senator Romeo's e-mail because otherwise, given that we both belong to the Interparliamentary Cancer Intergroup, I too would have signed the agenda instead of being here today. However, the important thing is to get to the goal. I believe that supporting the agenda together is an added value. We have said this and done it before in relation to health issues. I remember that a few months ago, in November, we unanimously approved the establishment of the National Network of Cancer Registers. It is therefore a subject that I really believe is at the heart of all of us. I, too, should mention what Mr Rizzotti has already mentioned; the numbers of cancer are unfortunately still exponentially increasing. However, we also know that we are one of the countries with the best health system to be able to recover from cancer and this must be important to us. We have had world-renowned researchers, one out of all Professor Veronesi, who has left us fundamental protocols especially for breast cancer. It is useless, however, that we hide the diversity of treatment present in our country, also for the same pathologies. The shared agenda would like to draw attention to the various commitments that we give to the Government, precisely because we know that they have been taken over the years and have yet to be fully implemented. I am referring above all to the nets of the breast units; a commitment that the Regions still have to complete. I would also like to mention the establishment of the oncology networks, one of the commitments that we have included on the agenda. There is also another commitment, no less important, that is to ensure the adoption of a new national oncology plan, based on the centrality of the patient. In fact, I remember the importance of having the patient as a partner, with whom to share and collaborate for therapy, so that there is a relationship of trust between doctor and patient, that can develop in confidence to improve the effect of therapy. This is what all cancer patients' associations ask, telling us that they want to participate in healing through a relationship of trust with their doctor. This is why such associations, such as "Salute donna" who promoted to the Intergroup the presentation of the motion, ask us to have special attention for them and also to have referents of the associations in the places of decision. This is very important, as well as promoting a multidisciplinary approach and teamwork at territorial level, with the presence of several specialists, with the aim of ensuring and improving the psychophysical well-being of the oncology patient. We know, for example, that a fundamental theme is that of psychoncology, a matter developed over the years, which also captures the psychic aspect of those suffering from an oncology pathology, which must be supported. There is not only the organic part and we must not only treat the body, but we must treat the patient in a holistic way, as a whole. It is therefore very important that these issues are put to the attention of the Government. It is also essential to put in place more effective communication campaigns to promote participation in cancer screening, guaranteed by the essential levels of care (LEA). Unfortunately, we know that there are still regions that, although they have the possibility, are unable to participate in screening. I am thinking, for example, of women with cancer in the neck of the uterus: it is difficult to do so and we must therefore try to encourage requests for participation in screening. Even now it is difficult to have important memberships, especially - I must say - in the regions of the South. I got to talk to some professionals, who told me they're really struggling. Therefore, more information needs to be provided on the fact that screenings can help identify pathologies first, and then avoid resorting to intervention at the last moment, which could be avoided, acting in advance with good prevention. It is also necessary to disseminate clear and timely information on clinical research and to facilitate access to clinical trials by cancer and oncoematological patients, always with the aim of promoting the approval and timely availability of the most innovative therapies. Finally, there is the important and fundamental passage on innovative cancer drugs. It is obvious that money must be allocated on this issue, because research in the field of cancer needs to continue and can deliver positive results, just as it has happened. Let us remember that, thank God, cancer is dying less, because you can survive, obviously with adequate lifestyles. I must therefore say thanks to those associations that take care of patients, even after an adverse event, like a tumor. It is therefore necessary to help these people, not only in the prevention and during possible intervention, but also in the subsequent life path. In fact, there are associations of those who call themselves oncononauts, that is, those who continue to navigate their lives, with a tumor that they are keeping under control. So the G1 agenda only proposes the protection of the rights of cancer patients and so I must always thank the associations as "Women's Health" who try to keep their attention on this issue. In the previous parliamentary term, I was not part of the Intergroup on the fight against cancer, because I was in the Chamber of Deputies, but we completed the process of the law on the National Network of Cancer Registers, which saw me signed in the previous parliamentary term, in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, the importance of paying attention to these issues is certainly crucial, because I repeat that prevention and lifestyles are strategically important and as institutions we have a duty to promote these practices. We must always talk about networking, about these networks which are also formed in the health sector, such as the one we have set up as an interparliamentary group, in order to respond more effectively to the health needs of our citizens. I am also thinking, for example, of hematological and oncohaematological networks, which are fundamental. It's not enough to turn them over; you have to figure out if they're working. It is therefore also important to monitor the commitments that we expect. At this point, therefore, I repeat that it is important to have reached agreement in this House on these issues. Unfortunately, I believe that all of us, who are close to those who have been farther away, are affected by this disease, so we can only be in favour of this agenda, because it is a very important issue and therefore we must give an answer to those who have asked to commit the government. We do this through our motion and the unitary agenda and we ask the Government to accept the points included in the texts. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u190	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u191	Mr President, I, like the other Members, had not seen Mr Romeo's e-mail. It seems to me to be a good thing that from the three motions - which I would have proposed in the debate - we arrive at a single agenda and, if colleagues will allow it, I too would like to sign it and share the spirit of it. Adhering deeply to the reasoning that arises from the relationship with voluntary associations and family members, I would just like to make an emphasis, especially for the Government. Everything that we say on the agenda and that was basically taken up in the three motions, which I personally shared, takes note of an objective problem: the deep diversity and disparity in the national territory of practices, beginning with the oncology network, integration systems, assistance systems, home caregivers and caregivers. It is a reflection that cannot stop at this taking; we need to understand whether we are able to share an operational strategy that cannot be separated from two problems, the first of which is endemic and structural, namely the under-financing of the health system. In fact, even where there is that problem of delay and we have talked about, to build integrated oncology networks need investment, a strategy (in my opinion, even substitution where the regions do not operate consistently) of sharing in the first place. This is an economic choice. We have approved a very fair rule, which we all share, on the cancer register, but without a euro. Let's look ourselves in the eye, Mr. Undersecretary, without a euro you don't do. We here, with all the positive and shared spirit, which I appreciate, must, however, assume a responsibility. We must give the necessary resources to achieve those points that we have indicated here, to support the home network, which I consider to be terminally ill. Keep in mind that we still have a very serious problem with the hospice network, because some regions are able to respond to hospices but many other regions are not. And we know hospices are an element of civilization. So this unitary agenda is fine, but let us find a way, Mr Undersecretary, to build a strategy, to put resources in it, to make concrete interventions. Otherwise, sharing is important but we stop here. We need to decide on a strategic investment in health, which is not just an expense, but an investment. We're in recession. Health, health, are a great system of investments, which can allow this country to grow. Let's just stop thinking like it's a grocery store. We have important pharmaceutical companies in this country. We need to deal with the great challenge of innovative medicines, which proposes that we change the rules on mature medicines to deal with the issue of innovative medicines. You have to make choices. We stand firm on petitions of principle. It's been a year. It's time to act. We shall therefore vote in favour of this unitary agenda. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u192	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u193	Mr President, esteemed senators, I can only be happy with this very beautiful sharing on the part of all political parties. And I'm happy about that, both as a government representative and as a job worker, since I spent 35 years of my life in cancer research. So, this is a moment of joy for me. Clearly everything is acceptable, especially this last speech by Senator Errani. I hope that we will continue with this step, as has already been done for the cancer register, as has already been done for the IRCCS network. As far as prevention campaigns are concerned, there are still substantial differences between North and South Italy. This is a reality and the Government is committed, and I particularly commit myself, since I have the specific delegation for these issues, to do my best to try to heal these differences. I believe that cancer is a problem that clearly affects everyone and, therefore, I hope, even in the near future, to always find a complete alignment by all political forces to support this type of activity, both for prevention, for diagnosis and for therapies. Today, innovative therapies are an important challenge. I just wanted to take advantage of it here to make some technical clarity - let me do that - about some terminologies. Gene therapy is in itself a small part of innovative therapies. There are also molecular therapies. Hence, it is more appropriate, from a technical point of view, to talk about molecular target therapy, precision therapies rather than personalized therapies. Personalized therapies don't exist, they're an ideal. Precision therapy is those therapies that, practically, must be directed towards molecular targets and, therefore, towards mechanisms common to multiple types of cancer. I want to say this because in so many texts (motions, Chamber documents), we often talk about personalized therapy, but it is not a proper term. Clearly, this is not a binding aspect, but I wanted to make a few points. The Government's opinion can only be in favour of the G1 agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, for an oversight of me, of which I take responsibility, I did not give the floor to Senator Pisani, who was registered to speak. You now have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u194	Mr President, I asked for the floor to express my support for the joint agenda text, but I did propose that it should be integrated into health education. As a citizen and as a doctor, I appreciate the health policy that always puts the patient at the centre, both as an individual and as a member of the leading associations of interest, which must always be involved in dialogue and in comparison with the health institutions. Putting the patient at the centre means - on the part of us doctors - ensuring correct information in order to make him aware and motivated participant of the decisions that concern his own well-being and his own therapeutic path, where necessary. Putting the patient at the centre means even before allowing him to acquire a correct education in health, which constitutes a founding pillar of our National Health Service since its birth, with Law No. 833 of 1978. This law, among its aims, provides for the formation of a health conscience that allows each individual to make conscious decisions about his or her own balance and physical, mental and social well-being, i.e. decisions on his or her own health. Health - as I recall - as defined by the World Health Organization is not only the absence of disease; it is a state of physical, mental and social well-being of the individual. For these reasons I propose the introduction of the teaching of health education in schools as compulsory discipline in order to increase knowledge and awareness of the importance of disease prevention and the adoption of correct lifestyles. This teaching should include a number of areas within it, including the promotion of the Mediterranean diet and physical activity and the fight against the use of harmful substances such as smoking, alcohol and drugs, practices and habits that reduce the risk of degenerative and oncologic diseases. Specific days should also be provided for with educational visits dedicated to health prevention and promotion in health establishments and other bodies of the National Health Service, as well as universities and research bodies. I therefore hope that a commitment on the G1 agenda will be added to the measures to deal with cancer, so that the Government will include the teaching of health education in the compulsory subjects in the first and second grade secondary schools. At the same time, in order to ensure the training of appropriate teaching staff, it is necessary that the teaching of health education is included in the programmes of the courses of qualification for teaching. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u195	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u196	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u198	BINI (PD). Mr President, I would just like to say that I share Mr Boldrini's words in general debate and I welcome the fact that we have arrived at a unified text, which, on issues like these, is always a wish and a fundamental objective. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u199	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u200	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u201	SICLARI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, the motion tabled by Forza Italia, brilliantly illustrated by Mrs Rizzotti, who has found great support and sharing, even before the political value and legislative and executive impulse, wanted to be the gathering of the cry of alarm and pain that comes from those who, every day, must fight against an evil from the dark contours and to be countered with weapons that are still, in too many ways unknown. In addition, the motion wanted to give concrete and effective answers to families who have to fight cancer. Colleagues, cancer, unfortunately, still today, is an evil of which we do not know the precise aetiology and reaps many victims every year. In a recent past, being sick with cancer generated maximum solidarity, considering - for one verse - the high mortality of the disease and - for the other - the exceptionality of the cases. Today, however, we are witnessing a tragic spread of evil that knows no age, geographical boundaries, latitudes and race. Although we are in the presence of such a serious and crippling evil for both the sick and the families, the response that our National Health Service provides is, in some ways, absolutely unsatisfactory. A major common effort is therefore needed to identify solutions to make control of oncology more efficient. The unitary agenda, presented by the League and that bears the signature of President Bernini, to which the convinced vote of the Forza Italia Group goes, is a correct summary of the motion presented by Forza Italia, which invites the Government to put in place a 360 degree strategy, that manages to fight cancer with all the possible weapons at our disposal: national oncology plan, regional oncology networks and real application of the standard costs, until it reaches the promotion of awareness campaigns in order to enhance throughout the national territory the cancer screenings guaranteed by the essential levels of assistance. What we are asking for, in addition to what is on the agenda, is the guarantee of financial coverage for gene therapies, through medium- and long-term funding models, with destination constraints, increasing the current fund for innovative cancer drugs. Colleagues, despite we have been and still are the critical conscience of this Government in all areas - particularly in the field of health - we are happy that in such a sensitive matter, which concerns the health of all citizens, an important agreement has been found that has allowed us to arrive at the maximum possible sharing of the agenda, so that the Government can immediately commit itself to improving the life expectancy and the conditions of care of cancer patients. Faced with a common enemy like cancer, there can be no division, but we must all march together to the goal that will, in the coming years, allow us to consider the tumor an increasingly curable evil and, in the coming decades, eliminate it from our lives. Forza Italia will remain vigilant also with reference to what we have just asked colleagues of the League, using all the necessary political instruments and within our reach to win - finally - a battle of civilization and solidarity. For this reason, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I repeat my vote in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u202	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u203	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u204	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no examination of any data in our country that does not lead us to see that there are, unfortunately, substantial differences from area to area and from region to region in the approach to planning and planning in all strategic sectors. These differences are absolutely not worthy of a civil state, especially when dealing with treatment, treatment and health care. It has been since we entered this House that we have made a commitment, namely to ensure that the survival and health of any citizen should never again depend on the place where he was born. We fought right from the start so that Italy could finally have a national network of cancer registers, able to allow the approach to the best therapies, taking into account objective data on factors of incidence and prevalence of pathologies in relation to certain geographical areas, collected throughout the national territory and brought together on a single platform. The commitment that we ask our Government today is to reduce, until we cancel it altogether, the gap between some regions caused by the disparity in the approach to the treatment of cancer diseases. A reasoning that must be addressed starting from prevention, that needs campaigns and communication strategies that stimulate and encourage communities to face the cancer screenings that are part of the offer of the essential levels of care, until taking care of the patient, that determines the quality of the therapeutic path. Our reference must be the resolution of May 2017, which emerged from the 70th Assembly of the World Health Organization, on cancer prevention and control. With this document, Member States have committed themselves to defining their national cancer control plans, starting with better data collection for the implementation of registers, to promoting prevention and the activation of further smoke reduction plans. The same resolution also recommends setting up activities aimed at the early diagnosis of cancer; developing diagnostic-therapeutic and welfare protocols for the management of disease; promoting a sustainable use of tools for diagnosis and treatment of cancer; providing patients with palliative care where necessary; promoting cancer research; promoting collaboration between authorities and patient associations and the use of psychological counselling. It is a fact that the progress made in the field of therapies little or badly combines with access to them. The most critical issue in this respect is the excessive fragmentation of decisions at the territorial level. As my colleagues have pointed out, 5% of the entire Italian population is affected by cancer. Of these, 60 per cent survives at five years. Without taking up the commitments already mentioned by my colleagues, Senator Romeo and Senator Boldrini, I would like to add that the G1 agenda commits the Government to effectively implement regional cancer and haematological networks and the national cancer register. With it, the Government is committed to promoting the establishment in the Regions of the reception and services center, which must be the door of entry and the beginning of the diagnostic-therapeutic path for the oncology patient; to promoting the dissemination and access to molecular diagnostic tests that allow access to personalized target therapies, using the resources of the National Health Service in an appropriate way. We also commit the Government to ensuring the correct information of the doctor to the patient to obtain full sharing in case you opt for a therapeutic shift. Finally, we commit the Government to work to ensure, in compliance with the constraints of the sustainability of the system and the needs of cancer patients and oncoematological regional access to new therapies as quickly as possible, including through alternative systems to regional hospital therapeutic prontuaries, as already done in some regions. In declaring the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars, I invite everyone to work together to achieve a strategy that is increasingly aimed at reducing territorial differences and adapting care and assistance to the most advanced methodologies to allow each individual Region to be in line with the most innovative therapeutic approaches. We no longer want A-series citizens and B-series citizens. Our National Health Service remains an enviable model all over the world. We must and we can improve it, working more and more to heal the disparities between the different areas of the country in access to fundamental treatments and placing an embankment to health migration, which in certain territories, especially in the oncology field, is becoming increasingly alarming. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u205	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u207	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to add my signature to the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u208	The Presidency takes note of this. Anyone interested in the subscription may contact the Offices, which will register the signature immediately. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Romeo, Bernini, Boldrini, Castellone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]] The case has meant that one person who has had cancer has presided over it and has been fighting it for six and a half years. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]] Thank you, but this was an unpleasing applause, I do not wish anyone, but it means that - by touching iron - you can also heal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u209	As established by the Conference of Leaders, we resume the examination of the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent measures in support of Banca Carige. I give the floor to Senator Bagnai, acting as rapporteur, as far as he wants to convey or communicate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u210	Mr President, I would like to inform you and my fellow Members that the Government has forwarded to the Finance Committee the text of the correction notice sent today to the Official Journal concerning the measure before us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u211	Mr President, confirming what Senator Bagnai said, the Government sent the text of the notice of amendment to the Decree-Law to the Official Journal, of which I read: Notice concerning Decree-Law No 1 of 8 January 2019: Emergency measures in support of Banca Carige S.p.a. - Cassa di risparmazione di Genova e Imperia (Decree-Law published in the Official Journal - General Series - No 6 of 8 January 2019). In the decree-law cited in epigraphs, published in the above mentioned Official Journal, on p. 7, second column, in Article 20, paragraph 7, fourth row, where it is written: "... condition indicated by paragraph 5 (c), "... condition indicated by paragraph 3 (c), "... condition indicated by paragraph 3 (c), ".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u214	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, mistakes can also happen in writing a law. I certainly do not remember that there has been an amendment to a law - because this is a law of the State, it is not a bill - in force since 9 January, so it is worth seeing why there has been this mistake. As Senator Modena suggested, it is useful to compare the text of the decree-law that we are examining with the text of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016 signed by the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri and Minister Padoan, which contains urgent provisions for the protection of savings and the credit sector. Well, the first 19 articles are, with the exception of two, in the column and in very large part of the text, perfectly equal to the decree-law that we are examining. The problems begin with Article 20, where some creativity has been manifested by the current Government, because that was Article 22 in the "original" decree-law of 2016, where there were rules concerning cooperative banks that - not being the case - were not correctly included in the decree-law today under consideration. In article 20 of this decree-law is reproduced, in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 of the old decree-law Gentiloni Silveri and, in paragraph 2, paragraph 2. Then paragraphs 3 and 4 of the decree-law Gentiloni Silveri did not enter this decree-law, so paragraph 3 reproduces paragraph 5 of the decree-law Gentiloni Silveri. Consequently, when you arrive at paragraph 7 of this decree-law, in copying the words were also copied with the reference to "comma 5," when instead the reference should have been to paragraph 3. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] It's as if I in high school, during my class assignment, copied all the text from my desk companion and then also copied "Anna Maria Bernini" as author. It's an injury, but in short. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] The curious thing is that I went to see the Reports, too. At the time the approval was not quite so smooth, because in the Chamber the Movimento 5 Stars (I got it both from the Report, and from the authoritative newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano"), in voting against this measure, he exhibited huge banners with written "saving thieves", cartels and Salvadorans shaken to the cry of "thieves, thieves." But here are the friends of the League...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u215	Senator Malan, let's talk about correction, not error.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u216	MALAN (FI-BP). In fact, I'm talking about the order of business. The friends of the League have displayed signs with the words "scarred savers," "gracious bankers," "shame" and they have thrown some nice fake notes, some of which are still in my possession, because they were very nice. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We voted in favour then and we were told that we had done something wrong with the Democratic Party. On the other hand, those who opposed it in a very fierce way today copy it, copy it badly and I believe that they will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u217	The Presidency takes note of what Senator Bagnai has said and of the government representative's reading of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u218	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u219	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u220	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our Group will vote in favour of the measure to protect savers and the stability of the banking system. We are doing this in the hope that Carige will find a partner that is up to speed, particularly with regard to the safeguarding of jobs. In many speeches, even in the debate in the House, there was talk of the responsibilities and the system of controls which, as in the case of the other banks, did not do its duty to the full. I also agree with the questions that have been raised and add two general considerations. The first is that this measure is a copy and paste of those approved in the last parliamentary term. It is the confirmation that, when situations reach such a critical level, for politics there is no other way to avoid a crisis of the banking system and to protect the interests and savings of all. Those who govern cannot do otherwise, but those who can choose what to do are oppositions. They can exploit the theme, attack the government and say that it saves bankers with public money; or they can make a speech of truth to the country, saying that on certain issues the general interest and the sense of responsibility come first of all. We are doing this today and we are doing it also because one day we do not want to feel embarrassed to look our voters in the eyes; that embarrassment that I hope many people are experiencing in the present majority. But there is also another noteworthy aspect of this matter. It has a certain effect to remind the sovereignists of this House that to push Italy to take initiatives to protect the clients of Carige, therefore the people, it was precisely Europe, the one always told as bad and that, instead, anticipates and pushes the Government to protect its citizens. Propaganda has very fast legs at first, which then prove to be short. So, in the end, they all lose us and lose us, in particular, the quality and goodness of the public debate on democracy. My hope is that this can be a lesson and that, above all, this measure will help Carige, his workers and his savers to get out of the difficult situation in which they live. I therefore repeat the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u221	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u222	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u223	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with this measure, which we will vote for firmly: it was and is necessary, also because of Carige's role in Ligurian territory and not only that. We appreciated the speed with which the Government took this step. Having said that, I think that in our debate we are missing an opportunity for reflection and I will try to explain myself. Even with regard to the incident described above, the words of the Undersecretary this morning in this Chamber, not only did they not convince me, but in some respects they also seemed inappropriate and somewhat provocative. [[Applause from Senator Pinotti]] This measure, also for the obvious reason represented by European rules, is the same assumed by the previous Government in relation to Monte dei Paschi di Siena and so on. It is the same and, from this point of view, propaganda will in no way be able to hide this simple truth. Where, then, is the missed opportunity? The missed opportunity lies in the fact that we could do - and there was the full availability of all the opposition groups, you will acknowledge - a real debate about merit, that would allow us to go beyond the classic propaganda and ineffective debate, first of all in relation to, for example, what we can do together on the level of the parliamentary initiative to support - and I stress the word "support" - the Government in the intervention of changing European norms that for our country are not good. The majority, however, and first and foremost the Government, alas, have chosen another way, the usual wrong way, that is to continue the polemics of yesterday. I wonder what's the point of that. Are we all ready to work to overcome the bail in? How do we do that? Let's build an initiative together. There is investigation activity in the Commission, authoritatively chaired. I hope that the Commission, which has the task of deepening all the responsibilities that exist and not only in recent times (from Carige to MPS to what has happened in the banking system), will not work on the basis of an ideological system, but will work to understand instead what we can and must do to improve and make the legislation more effective, up to that on controls. Now, it can deal with Banca d'Italia, but as you said in some interventions the investigations and also the judgments on Carige arise from an initiative taken by Banca d'Italia and from the action taken by it. After doing this emphasis, the thing that interests me is another: I am interested to understand if we are all convinced that, certainly improving it and making it more effective, the autonomy of the Bank of Italy is a value. [[Applause from Senator Zanda]] And that no one, in the name of something and some reason of the past, decides, from a political point of view, to get their hands on it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This would, in fact, once again weaken the balance and balance systems of democracy in our country. It's a very important fact. There is another point that I would like to stress, on the missed occasion: perhaps we should take note (and I fear that we will have to do so very urgently in the coming months, starting with the examination of the DEF) of the issue of market relations. I agree with a statement made by the rapporteur in his conclusions: not only banks are wrong, but markets are also wrong. I agree that we cannot be subordinates to the markets that make a great deal of mistakes, as we have seen from the Lehman Brothers crisis forward. It is precisely for this reason that it is essential that the Italian Government does not isolate itself in Europe and does not waste time in giving faults. You are today governed and must take responsibility for building a system of alliances in Europe that helps us, since we have the second largest public debt in the world, which unfortunately grows, and since we are in recession. We need a system of alliances that will help us to deal with this situation, not a government that blames us, not a government that for a handful of votes on May 26 lets us remain isolated. And it will certainly not be a new relationship with Trump and the United States that will help us manage the great difficulties we are in. This is another missed opportunity. Finally, the representative of the Government made an intervention that we share, but I would like to stress one point: it was presented a few days ago the industrial plan, where 1,050 redundancies are planned, or at least these are the news emerged. Our agenda, which has been accepted by the Government, is committed to working to address this issue. In other words, the protection of savers is right, it is right that we must safeguard a "territorial" bank that has a fundamental function, but there is to govern and safeguard the work and the employees of that bank, which cannot be the final payers of a bad management that has lasted for years and that has also been seen, following judgments of the judiciary, severely condemned. Here the Government must make an action of great attention and government, precisely, of this process of reorganization and restructuring. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u224	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u225	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u226	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, our Group, the Brothers of Italy, can only look with extraordinary interest at the content of the decree-law in question, because we care not only about the rescue of the bank, but also about the savers and families inevitably involved. That is why we have behaved with a sense of responsibility, although we do not fully agree with the content of the measure: we have also accepted the delays resulting from the technical errors we have been discussing; we have tabled amendments not for preliminary or time wasting time, but to give aid and suggestions in line with what had been said in the election campaign and in the last parliamentary term during similar debates, on issues similar to those we are dealing with. What makes us species and that therefore we would like to emphasize, inviting for reflection also the colleagues of the other Groups, is the fact that it is now almost assumed that banks and credit institutions should enjoy a different and privileged treatment compared to all the other business systems of the Country. Let me explain with a very trivial example: we are discussing - rightly - how to save a bank and savers, but surely we could not make the same reasoning about a factory that produces cars, bolts, panettones or furniture. It is therefore clear that we are faced with a special treatment which should involve special responsibilities for the beneficiary, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen, but we do not think that this has happened this time either. Therefore, this is a missed opportunity for us to give a signal of true discontinuity. The European Union liquidates without a single problem the fact that the States offer the banks guarantees guarantee or capital, but it savagely bans a company that exceeds the use of public, direct or indirect contributions and State aid in a de minimis scheme of 300,000 euros in three years. This is obviously an imbalance and a paradoxical situation that we will have to deal with sooner or later, because it is certainly right to defend savers, especially if cheated, but it is also true that there may be distortions, when it is known that investment in the bank, in the end, is guaranteed by the State, while what is done as a private individual and citizen in a company that produces furniture, cars or panettone does not give this guarantee. I believe that this is a distortion of the investment market, on which perhaps it would have been appropriate to reflect, but no one has spoken a single word about it. I will repeat what other colleagues have said, because it is simply the objective and incontrovertible truth: this is a decree-law copy and paste of the previous ones; it is useless for you to try to deny it, you have done it in haste and fury, nighttime and, once again, of urgency, because, after denying that it would never happen, even the yellow-green government has faced the need not to blow up a bank, with all the consequences of the case. Unfortunately, the haste - and I hope only that, not other unjustified reasons - has prevented you from making systemic intervention, as often announced, on the banking sector. We are still very critical, for example, of the fact that we have not had concrete answers - apart from the proposal to set up the Commission of Inquiry, which we hope will soon begin its work - to the sick mechanism that creates banking default and the role of Bankitalia and Consob. Allow me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to refer also to the Consob affair, because even for Professor Savona, of whom we have great personal esteem for studies and academic and professional career, the same reasons and laws and the same requirements of transparency and independence apply. Therefore, apart from the personal judgement of the professor, it is clear that we will not discount the qualifications he must have in order to hold such a delicate position in Consob, because otherwise we leave again on the wrong foot, after having announced that they went in a different direction, that is, that of maximum transparency and independence. There is no discussion in the measure that the distinction and net separation between retail banks, ordinary banks and investment banks should finally be taken by the hand. This is the origin of the misrepresentation of the will of the small saver, who is unable despite the rules, paper packs, bank warnings, to distinguish between a high-risk investment and a low-risk one. We must separate the aims of the banks, otherwise savers will still be misled. We have tabled amendments - I repeat once again - not of a obstructive nature, in order to try to improve the text. They have been largely rejected, some even judged to be totally unjustified, inadmissible. I would like to remind you briefly. The first concerned an ethical code. Perhaps the ethical word in politics should not be used; then use an adjective that you like more, but it has to be said that in the face of the fact that citizens' money is guaranteed by a bank, I believe that it has to behave with respect to the salaries and salaries of its top managers in line with common sense. You can no longer see situations like those we have witnessed, with top managers earning millions of euros, have clamorous and unjustified goodwill, star wages, enjoy stock options and infinite bonuses, but lead their companies and their banks to default and bankruptcy. We have also asked that operations relating to non-performing loans, deteriorated loans, do not become another opportunity for speculation in favour of agencies of banks that do this as a trade. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. We simply asked that a right of pre-emption be granted, especially for the small saver, with respect to factoring practices, that is to say the transfer of credit, that is, the small debtor be allowed to pay off his credit with the bank without being the subject of yet another speculation conducted by those who lucra interest gigantic on the difficulty of the banks and the difficulty of recovering the credit. The last request we have made a thousand times, which I believe is a reproduction of requests made by the majority of my colleagues on other occasions, sitting on other benches, in other legislation, is to make public the list of the most important debtors of the banks subject to public rescue. Where is the scandal of providing for a rule that makes public the list of those who are liable for more than 100,000 - is it too little? - 200,000 or 300,000 euros, of the large debtors of the banks that are the origin of the default? Recent history teaches that bank defaults are often not attributable to 10,000 small savers, but to three, four or five large debtors who have been favored, even politically by banks, who have brought them into default for the impossibility of returning what they received. What prevents the Senate of the Republic from making an agenda, not an agenda - because we all know its political value - but a rule that states that if the bank intends to receive and benefit from public contributions and public guarantees it must make the list public. You have made a rule that also obliges the festivals, if composed of a director of a city councilor in the last ten years, to rules on transparency, but they do not apply to banks. So, Mr President, on the way to the conclusion, we will vote in favour of the measure, confirming that we would have preferred it to be stated in it that the rescue of credit institutions with public money, with money from all, cannot take place without anything changing, without a process of reform, transparency, ethics and responsibility. Otherwise we continue and continue to give the feeling that governments change, but the banking system remains the same: impenetrable and unchangeable. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u227	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u228	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u229	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the Carige Decree-Law, because its rapid approval is useful to Italy. We will do this for two fundamental reasons: one concerns the workers and workers of the bank, the accountants, the companies that have credits and the certainty of the dramatic impact that would have the failure of the former savings bank of Genoa and Imperia on Liguria, where much of the activity of the bank is concentrated. The other reason is the financial stability of Italy, the protection of the savings of families and the awareness that the insolvency of an important bank would damage the national economy, already struggling with the slowdown of the world economy, just as the decline of industrial production brings us into a real recession. At the beginning of the 17th legislature, following the longer and deeper economic crisis since the post-war period, the specific difficulties of individual banking institutions were measured, which were also the result of managerial errors. There was a need to improve the capitalization and quality of banks' assets and to strengthen their governance, in the context of the introduction of single supervision and in the new framework of the Basel Agreement 3. An organic strategy of intervention in the financial sector has therefore been put in place, with the adoption of incisive reforms, while in parallel specific banking crises were managed, in the absence, initially, of adequate instruments. I start from here, from this clear judgment on what was done by the governments of the last legislature, which I claim and vindicate. I would like to remind you here that Minister Tria, at the hearing, admitted to having done the same thing with the decree-law in question as the previous governments, because it is the only right and possible thing that can and must be done in these cases. He then added that, if a specific fact is similar to another, the norm is the same and the decree is equal to that made by previous governments. "I don't see how a decree can be made in a different way," said Tria. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , authoritative government minister formed by League and Movimento 5 Stars. So we welcome the fact that the political forces that currently govern the country have finally taken a bath of reality. The current decree-law is identical to the decree-laws made by the previous governments and in particular that of the Government Gentiloni Silveri: Senator Malan has remembered it masterfully and therefore it does not need to say anything else. I am sorry, Mr. Undersecretary, that you were not present: it would have been really pedagogical to listen to Senator Malan's illustration. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The same thing was said yesterday by the working rapporteur, Senator Bagnai. I must say that I appreciated yesterday's report, which had kept very technical and even neutral tones. On the other hand, I was a little lost in the tone of today's reply, in which at some point I heard about an obsequiosity that there would be, on the part of previous governments, towards Europe. You see, Senator Bagnai, it's not very useful to count in Europe to beat the fists in front of the Italian cameras to show that you count. In fact the battles are done at the right tables and it is much more useful to do them with determination there, than to flaunt them in favor of cameras in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So we welcome the fact that the political forces that currently govern the country have come to see reality, but we cannot forget that, in the last legislature, on similar decrees, especially the Movimento 5 Stars, but also the League, have not only voted against, but even presented exceptions of constitutionality. This was recalled by the excellent speeches of my fellow Senators, Mr Beginini, Mr Grimani and Mr D'Alfonso. However, if, in addition to the criterion of reality, there were also a conversion to a new political civilization, we would have listened to excuses for the shameful exploitation of the banking decrees that was made in the last parliamentary term. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I did not hear them in the speeches of my colleagues and I did not hear them in today's speech by the Undersecretary Villarosa, which I must say left me dismayed: an unnecessarily provocative intervention, all looking to the past, without taking into account the current provision and not even the fact that we are talking about a decree-law on which the Democratic Party will vote favorably. Last week it closed with a speech by the Parent of the Five Stars, Senator Patuanelli, who recalled how important it would be to respect ourselves in this House. I want to remember that because I think so too, but I believe that the government, when it comes to this House, should also respect the political forces representing the opposition much more closely. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Returning to the decree-law, we consider the government's urgent intervention on Carige, downstream - it must be remembered - of the European Central Bank's commission. We also note a renewed international concern about the reliability and credibility of Italy. The measure contains two different options on the future of the bank, but in our view it is right to put in place at the same time: the guarantee for newly issued liabilities and capital intervention, the so-called precautionary recapitalisation. The guarantee on senior bonds is functional to the priority search for a market solution for Carige. This is the best option, which less engages public resources and more valorizes the bank's assets. During the hearing in the Joint Finance Committees of the Chamber and Senate, Minister Tria said - I quote again - that the Government hopes for the market solution for Banca Carige; President Conte reiterated the same concept in Europe, but different and destabilising had been the statements of the dioscuros of the Government, in particular of the vice Prime Minister Di Maio, who had unmistakably spoken of the nationalization of the bank, alongside this also attacks against the Bank of Italy, which weaken the country in a difficult negotiation and with the result not taken for granted. We welcome the fact that, after the conversion of the decree-law with a broad support from the political forces, we can say that Parliament hopes for a market solution for Banca Carige, paying attention to those market errors referred to by Senator Bagnai and taken up by Mr Errani's intervention. However, the provision of a possible precautionary recapitalisation to allow the State to enter the bank's capital at the same time does not conflict with this objective. Even if it is costly, the recapitalisation is what makes it possible to make clear, to those interested in an acquisition of Carige, that it cannot be negotiated indefinitely counting on the further weakening of the bank. In that case, in fact, there would be state intervention to avoid failure. However, the subsequent placement would result in market values, since the precautionary recapitalisation is still temporary, just as in the case of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena. This is a solution of last resort, which we do not invoke or hope for, but which, if it proves necessary, should not be hindered by the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the European Commission on the basis of restrictive and improper interpretations of the Directive on the consolidation and resolution of banks and the Communication on State aid of 2013. In this respect, it would be good if the government, instead of isolating itself by attacking countries like France, which in this field may have similar interests to ours, were equipped for a difficult negotiation in Europe that, as always happens, requires the ability to make alliances and credibility towards the interlocutors. The ECB has taken an emergency measure to the Bank Carige, which probably also reflects the decline in credibility that this Government has led to in recent months, which we have already paid with the increase in spreads and interest rates. Who cares about the fate of Carige, for what it represents for Liguria, for jobs, for businesses and savers and for the same shareholders, must be concerned at this moment to unite and not to divide, with the primary objective of protecting financial stability and national savings, to be pursued also through a constructive confrontation with the European institutions. This is because it is precisely thanks to the dialogue carried out by the previous governments that Italy has obtained that flexibility in the application of the European rules on the management of banking crises that allowed the interventions on Monte dei Paschi di Siena and the Venetian banks and that today is the basis of the decree-law on Carige. We consider this decree-law in total political continuity with the choices made in the past years, not only because it moves in the same regulatory framework, but also because it seems to go in the same direction, that is to favor aggregations and acquisitions that strengthen the solidity of the system. Finally, Mr President, remembering that Genoa and Liguria are experiencing a very difficult moment after the collapse of the Morandi bridge because, despite the desire and strength that the city is demonstrating in reacting, the economic impact of that collapse has significant and important effects on the economic activities of the city and the region. In this respect, I would also like to stress that the industrial plan presented is a plan that involves draconian cuts on staff and also on desks. So, I invite the government to follow this game carefully, which would be another blow to a city and workers who are in trouble. In view of these assessments, we shall vote in favour. And we will also vote in favour because, for the Democratic Party, regardless of the majority position or opposition, the interest of Italy prevails and the overall interest, in this case, of financial stability. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u230	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u231	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u232	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I apologise if I remove a minimum of pathos and suspense, I will begin by saying that, of course, the Lega-Salvini Premier-PSd'Az Group will vote firmly in favour of converting this decree-law into law, not for a particular subalternity to the Government, but because it is convinced that it is indeed the right choice to make at this time, as has been mentioned by all colleagues. Perhaps, therefore, I could also conclude here, with an extreme cost-effectiveness of time. But since I'm a Keynesian, let me expand a little and make some points. In fact, this was a choice that the circumstances made necessary and, therefore, even the debate could not linger so much on the merit of the choice, but it rose, it flew high and I saw here some things I never expected I would have seen in my life; things that my eyes of human still have difficulty believing and I would like to share them with you, Mr President, starting from the last, the most pleasant. I have seen an attack on sovereignism made by the representative of a parliamentary group who is so proud of its roots, indeed, so stolz seiner Wurzeln, which is quite paradoxical: a Group, which so much defends its small region, which deserves to be defended, because it is angry with a party that wants to defend its country, which also deserves to be defended? I have also seen another paradoxical fact: we have been reprimanded for hastyness. I have here a dossier of editorials, which the tight deadlines, rightly, of the Parliamentary Rules prevent me from quoting widely, and also the results of some research that explains how, in the financial field, we must act quickly and also as, in previous cases, in dragging between Tremonti, Monti, Bonds, between the "save so" and the "save there," while time passed and situations deteriorated. You can't blame us for the rush. In fact, you give us an immediate upper hand, because you allow us to reproach you for the slowness, which has led to certain situations becoming entrenched, to the point where we now have to manage them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] We have also been accused of being inexperienced. I have to say that, in fact, another paradoxical issue is that, if there was material error (because there was and I, as President of the Commission, am ashamed that I did not notice), it was not only the inexperienced politicians who did not notice this error, it was also many long-standing officials who we have "inherited" from previous managements. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We may have made the mistake of relying too much on the people left there by the good ones; we will be more careful next time. On this we gather the constructive invitation. Then, there's the story of the copy. Some colleagues appreciate my work as rapporteur - and I am pleased - but of course our political positions are different, so it is also right to stress that. Here, I would point out that in order for this decree-law to be the exact copy of a previous decree-law, there was a fundamental junction that we all remember: the Premier should announce that it is a good deal to invest (except, etc.), as we remember. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Now, I don't mean it's not a good deal; I don't make evaluations at open markets. I just want to say, however, that perhaps we should remember that there was no rush there, maybe there were no material errors, but there was slowness and there was a lack of complete appreciation of the gravity of the situation. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, when the rescue of the duous was carried out, which has been quoted and claimed here many times as a model of what this Government is doing, it was told the bondholders that they would be 100% protected. Then, instead, on July 31, 2017, there was talk of a conversion into shares, which were then worth 8.65 euros, hours are worth 1.34: there things went a little differently. I wish we could remember! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] So that's not exactly the case, but this is the past, and maybe we should just forget it and really stop turning it around, looking forward and trying to share some principles, without which we will not be able to get this country back on its feet. I have two comments to make, hoping to have time. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that I have statified Carige without my knowledge: intervening in a television show, I said that I thought that a market solution would be possible. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Except it's not up to me, let's think a little bit about that. I appreciated the intervention that was made, particularly by Senator D'Alfonso, when he hoped that the market would produce solutions: the market produced solutions, he said in reply to my colleague Mr Botto, who had expressed a fundamental principle, in my opinion: whatever the solution, we should enter the order of ideas that if the State puts money in it, then the State manages. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] That was the point. It's not that we want to nationalize, it's that if you give them gifts or you subsidise them, it's not that the market works better, it works worse. That is the point: we believe in a controlling state, not in a gifting state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We have seen the Gift State in some previous cases, and this has not done well, in all evidence, to the stability of the financial system, so much so that we are here to entertain ourselves with these sad events, which we hope will come to a standstill. Therefore, there is the problem of jointly deciding what the role of the State should be in the exercise of that particular sector that constitutes the living blood of the economy of a country. Are we absolutely sure that we want to demonise the possible creation or the possible strengthening of a public pole in this area too? I would like us to remember that the country to which we are often called to inspire ourselves, Germany, has 60% of its banking system under public control and over 1,500 territorial banking institutions, some small, some large - someone is bad, some is good - while we are moving towards extreme concentration. We are sure that an extreme concentration solves a whole series of problems, including those of the moral hazard, that is: many banks too big to fail solve the problem of the irresponsible behavior of management, since the problem is that? I don't think so, but these are opinions. In addition to the speech on the role of the State, perhaps we should clarify. It has often been called - in tones, on the one hand, perhaps too critical and, on the other, perhaps too uncritical - the Supervisory Authority. It is true that over time the Authority has expressed itself and highlighted some critical aspects of what was happening, but I want to give you an example. When the Government that we support was working on the budget law, the attacks, also coming from the Bank of Italy, on the work of the Executive were explicit and almost daily. The Bank of Italy comes today to tell us that it knew that the bail in was not good and shows it - each of us also has the cards that have circulated in the secret rooms - but then why, at that time, didn't it publicly say that something had been done that was wrong? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Can we speak publicly only when we are wrong (if we are wrong)? I would like to conclude with an observation in response to Senator Errani. He asked if we are convinced that autonomy is a value. Apart from the fact that autonomy and independence are two different things, as are independence and irresponsibility and perhaps we should appreciate the richness of nuances of the Italian language that we must speak here, because what we are looking for, perhaps, is not independence, but something else. [[Senator Errani's comments.]] My colleague said that it is a fact that this is the case. Well, if we want to talk about facts, I am very happy to do so. I would remind you then that the Bundesbank has a board of six members appointed by the President of the Republic, three of them on a government proposal and three on a proposal from the Bundesrat. Okay? This is how it works in the countries we take as an example. If we are to say that this organizational model is not good, for example we should say - and someone will say so - that they can afford it because they are Germans and, therefore, they are honest, while politics here would corrupt. Well, I want to hear a representative of the Italians who, in here, says that Italians do not deserve a model of governance like that of the German Bundesbank because they would not know how to manage it. Do we want to get into this impasse? I'm very curious to see who will have the courage to say it! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] I shall conclude by voting in favour of this measure, of course. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). It's too easy, you didn't answer me!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u233	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u234	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u235	SCIASCIA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 8 January 2019, which reaches us at second reading, as already approved by the Chamber of Deputies with a single amendment to the original text, involves a whole series of burdens on the Ministry of Economy and Finance in order to ensure the survival of Carige, an institution of great importance not only in its base territory - Liguria - but with not marginal importance both in Lombardy and Lazio. This aid, provided for in Article 1 (guarantee of EUR 3 billion) and Article 12 (capital increase for the benefit of third parties) of the measure, tends to ensure that Carige - I repeat - continues to carry out its function, rectius - as has already been said - that it survives. In the measure and its annexes, however, not a staff was spent on the examination of Carige's tax position, unless it was confirmed that it was covered by EUR 1.2 billion for tax credits. Are they fully usable? And the surplus with the (unknown) taxable income can be yielded? Carige, moreover, among its assets - few - includes a 4% stake in Banca d'Italia. What's the point? Why wasn't she released? The measure follows in broad lines those already seen for Banca Etruria, Banca Marche et similia. However, it provides for, with greater value - I stress - than the above mentioned rules, the assumption that the charges borne by the MEF are of a transitory nature and that they can be zeroed, even with a minimum interest, from the continuation of the activities that is hoped to lead in the coming years to a significant increase in the value of Banca Carige, but also to profits that will allow it to get out of the impasse and repay the loans obtained. Needless to point out that all operations managed by the MEF, under the supervision of Banca d'Italia, will also be carefully examined by the European Central Bank, which, as is well known, issued last January the extraordinary administrative measure. As far as the causes of the breakdown are concerned, I think I can say that the first, in importance, is not the one determined by the period of world and national recession which began a few years ago and which has certainly resulted in the reduction of deposits by accountants and trusts that are safe and profitable. The failure, always in my opinion, also on the basis of the statements of the auditors, derives mainly from the bad management of the company, with the usual operations of granting credits (also millionaires) complacent, that is to say with few or null guarantees and with the carrying out of operations at high risk that have unfortunately ended in the worst way. The above commitments must allow the company to continue completely, but, more importantly, avoid losses for the accountants and that the lack of liquidity will, as a result, have a negative effect on small and medium-sized enterprises, which would see themselves forced to a stasis that could lead to the cessation of activities with serious repercussions on the unemployment rate as well. For all these reasons, especially for the last mentioned, Forza Italia will vote, as did the Commission, in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u236	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u237	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u238	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we have dealt with the Carige decree in this House, which aims to protect a bank for too long left at the mercy of the effects of the financial crisis and of past, to say the least, adventurous gestures, to use euphemism. A case to be dealt with in good time. I want to focus my speech on one particular point. In other words, I want to clarify the distinction between this measure of ours and that adopted by the governments Renzi-Gentiloni Silveri, since in several circumstances, as also during the work in the Commission, we tend to say that the one is the anastatic reproduction of the other. I think it is necessary to clarify the substantial difference in the modus operandi with completely different aims, since it is completely incorrect and misleading to compare the decree Carige with the previous provision. The difference will be even more clear after the Committee of Inquiry into Banks will be set up. I would also like to recall the path of the then new President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri, who soon approved the measure to authorise the allocation of 20 billion in favour of banks in difficulty. Not only for Monte dei Paschi di Siena, but also for Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. Subsequently, the Commission presided over by Casini did not find guilty and do you know why? Because on December 31, 2017 Monte dei Paschi declared to have claims for about 10 million against thirteen political parties and 67 million against natural persons who occupied important public offices. Instead, with the decree-law under consideration we offer public guarantees on Carige's bond issues and we foresee the so-called precautionary recapitalisation, to be considered as a residual hypothesis downstream of which, if concrete, the State will enter the bank, without giving it up at a symbolic price as happened in the past for two Venetian banks and for the four banks of central Italy. In addition, with the savings fund we protect the scams, the customers who trusted this bank but have not been paid back. We have set up a fund for the refreshment of Italian savers of one and a half billion euros. The Italian people are a people of savers, they testify to the high level of savings of families, which still makes a lot of gorge to foreign operators, and the fact that most families own the house in which they live. Therefore, a fund of 15 times higher than that of the Renzi-Gentiloni Silveri Government, the Baretta Fund, named after the then Undersecretary, which allocated just 100 million euros in four years, that is 25 million euros a year, in short, a real charity. The citizens were left alone, where was the state? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This government (and Parliament) intervenes to protect citizens and has not yet paid out a single penny. It is true that the opposition is left with nothing more to attack us than to say that we are like them. They do so in every way and at every opportunity, and certainly not out of disenchantment with them or out of overestimation with us, they do so in order to confuse the ideas with the citizens. Moreover, it is precise that always thanks to us also the shareholders will be compensated. Detecting the criminal responsibility of previous bank managements is certainly the responsibility of the judiciary, but it is also right to set up an ad hoc Commission to bring out the political responsibility of the affair, so that it is clear that in addition to the financial crisis bad politics has put both Monte dei Paschi di Siena and Carige on the ropes. I remember that when the financial crisis broke out in 2008, it became clear that many, too many actors have dumped the problem on Carige. Both banks have linked their reputation to their respective cities, Siena and Genoa, and it wouldn't be strange if they formed a civil part in a process for image damage. The problem is therefore not only that of Berneschi, who is sentenced to eight years and who, moreover, has to compensate EUR 26 million. The problem is also the deteriorated loans that the bank is still forced to dispose of. In fact, around the Carige system had come to create a balance of power that was not always clear and that in fact governed the board of directors for decades in which they depopulated Christian Democracy, left-wing Democrats and Forza Italia. The citizens must finally know what happened in that perverse triangulation between Berneschi, Burlando and Scajola, the Minister's brother, linked to bad management. It has not been noticed or pretended not to see the too much funding paid by Carige without the necessary guarantees to friends of friends, the usual roped and consorteries. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] And then, how not to notice the scam continued over time and taken over by the Finance Guard regarding the purchase of real estate by the insurance branch of the bank at inflated prices to reinvest the gains abroad, business that would yield only Berneschi 22 million euros. Mr President, I should like to end with the hope that the Commission of the banking inquiry of the forthcoming institution will clarify the case, identifying political responsibilities in parallel with the excellent work that the judiciary is doing, as well as, at the same time, that our Government will aim to strengthen trust in the institutions, showing itself attentive to the well-being of citizens, in perfect harmony with Article 47 of the Constitution, which reads: The Republic encourages and protects savings in all its forms; it regulates, coordinates and controls the exercise of credit. Therefore, the Movimento 5 Star Group voted in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u239	Before proceeding to the final vote, I inform the Shareholders' Meeting that the notice of correction of which the representative of the Government has read is published in the online version of the Official Journal of Wednesday 6 March 2019, starting at 7 p.m. today. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u240	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u241	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u242	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, for almost three years the whole world has been witnessing, unarmed, one of the most serious acts of violation and delegitimization of the fundamental rights of the human being. Since April 2016, Iranian researcher Ahmadreza Djalali, for years collaborator of the University of Eastern Piedmont (years during which he made a fundamental contribution to our research), is imprisoned in Iran with a death sentence on the charge of espionage. A sentence handed down after in a video broadcast by Iranian TV, Djalali would admit to being a spy; a confession that would be extorted under torture and threats of retaliation against his wife and children (which has always been supported by human lawyers). Before his confession, Djalali had in fact punctually and systematically rejected the accusations against him. In a letter released from prison and released by his wife, he revealed that his conviction would be nothing more than the effect of retaliation for refusing to be hired as a spy at the service of the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence. A version of which the court of Tehran has never taken into account in the only two levels of judgment. Researcher specializing in disaster medicine, born in Iran but resident in Sweden, Djalali had been arrested on the occasion of his last academic visit to Iran, where he had gone at the official invitation of the University of Tehran. A few days later, he was arrested for alleged "cooperation with a hostile government"; according to the prosecution, he would have passed information to Mossad, Israeli intelligence. It is now clear that there are those who wanted to publicly accuse themselves, so that they can show the world the proven proof of an activity of espionage that never existed. The appeal I intend to make today from these benches is addressed to our Government, so that Italy, a country that has had the honour to host Djalali in one of its universities and benefit from his work and teachings, can take action to guarantee this man a fair and just trial, in the presence of an independent and impartial court, which will only lead to his liberation after his innocence has finally been recognized. We can no longer allow this very serious violation of the fundamental rights of a citizen to continue and at the same time allow freedom of research to be put at risk. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u245	MARILOTTI (M5S). Mr President, last 24 February, as you know, the elections for the renewal of the President and the Legislative Assembly of the Region of Sardinia were held. In the evening of the 24th, at closed ballot boxes, the third Rai network broadcast a special election, during which a result of exit polls was released, on behalf of public television, by a pool of survey institutes gathered under the aegis of the Opinio Consortium. The results were presented showing that the same were the result of an elaboration originating from interviews carried out at the exit of the seats. The proposed figure, with regard to the candidates for President, proved to be very far from the 3% given by the Consortium Opinio itself as the maximum limit of the deviation. The most serious aspect that I want to stress here is that this has generated a clear distortion of public debate, both during the special televisions lasted until late at night, and, as an accomplice to the delay in the arrival of the real data, for much of the morning of the following day, also affecting the orientation of the titles of all the newspapers in the newsstands on the day of February 25. It is hardly to remember that, since the direct election of the President of the Region exists, it had never occurred in Sardinia, as in the present elections, such a significant gap between the first and the second arrived (15 percent in favor of the first, 100,000 more votes), while the exit polls predicted a head to head. Beyond the specific data and the favored parties or damaged by the macroscopic errors of the Consortium Opinio and considering that - according to the press news - the same pool of institutes is remunerated by the RAI through a contract that provides for the payment of 5 million euros for a two-year period, with option for the third year, it would be good to know which addresses it intends to hire the state television company in order to avoid that the public service ingenerates distortions of this type in the political debate, making itself also protagonist of an obvious waste of money that could be used by the same state television, paid by the citizens, with more profitable cultural purposes. That is why, together with some of my group's colleagues, I have put the matter to the President and the CEO of Rai. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u248	SILERI (M5S). Mr President, senators and senators, the Florence Public Prosecutor has just notified the closure of the investigations to 45 professors and researchers of tax law for the investigation, which in 2017 led to seven arrests and a ban from universities for 22 other people. Among the crimes contested are those of undue induction to give or promise usefulness; corruption; disturbed freedom of choice procedure in contests; office abuse; fraud; scam and so on. The Procurator is now preparing to make a request for referral back to court for these 45 cases. The investigation arose from the denunciation of a brave tax researcher who was invited to withdraw from a competition. From this split the investigators rebuilt a national network of relations between scientific societies where, according to the accusation, the winners of the competitions were illicitly agreed, with the exchange of favors and ratings to the teaching. After two years the University of Florence is shaken by a new investigation. This time in the eye of the cyclone has ended the faculty of medicine, after the denunciation of an associate professor of otorinolaryngology. There are 14 professors investigated, who are challenged by the offences of public abuse and disturbance of administrative procedures, with violence, threat or with gifts and promises. After months of telephone and environmental interceptions, a turbid universe of intrigues and cunning emerges, of clandestine sex relations in the lane, of morbid desires of power, of scams and bribes. The interceptions are similar to other cases: He doesn't have to win. This place is for another place, but if we do a contest he would win it. As in many other cases, the system understands that the rebel has become unmanageable. He remains alone, but courageously denounced. From these acts and from the investigations read in the newspapers emerge great maneuvers on the contests, so as to move professors and commissions like pawns on a national chessboard. It's an interlocking game all over Italy that affects many disciplinary areas, not all universities, but too many. The cases involved Catania, Messina, Bologna, Roma Tor Vergata, Roma La Sapienza, Chieti-Pescara, Ancona and many other cities. As for the victims, I thank Senator Astorre for quoting me a few days ago for my personal case, but, beyond that, I want to point out that here we represent other people and I am not only Pierpaolo Sileri here, I am also Giulia, Sandro, Gianbattista, Walter, Fulvio, Agnese, Adamo, Paolo and I could mention dozens more people. How many researchers, associate and ordinary professors, administrative officials, general directors of universities and hospitals and departmental directors will have to pass before a judge to bear witness? Do you really need a sentence to say that the university is sick? How many others will have to denounce what they suffer, then remaining isolated, deprived of their professional freedom, of dreams cultivated by students, becoming examples for colleagues: not positive examples and not of courage, as it should be, but examples to show what happens to you if you rebel, spreading omerty and surrender. How long will it be before these white-collar criminal organizations, straight from shame, fear and governed by rituals, family ties and particular ways of revenge, which impose their will by often illicit means to pursue private interests, are called by the right name, that is, mafia? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u249	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u251	Mr Misiani (PD). Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Salvini to reply to Question No 300657, which we tabled on the incidents that occurred between 27 and 28 February, after the Fiorentina-Atalanta match, between the law enforcement forces and the fans. There are unclear dynamics that need to be clarified. There is a similar question put to the House: the Minister chooses which branch of Parliament to present itself to, but comes and clarifies what has happened, because citizens, even before the fans, deserve words of clarity and deserve full light on dynamics that are not yet clear. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency will take charge of your request.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u254	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, today for the Municipality of Castelfidardo is a day of mourning, declared by Mayor Ascardi for the tragedy that hit his community on 3 March: an accident that in Porto Recanati has deprived of life two spouses and that could and should have been avoided. Unfortunately, in his order, the mayor describes his community as people engaged in social affairs and indicates the two spouses as the best of that community. I am a direct witness to the truthfulness of his statement, because I remember perfectly that when my municipality needed help, after the seismic swarm that struck us in 2016, the Municipality of Castelfidardo promptly intervened, precisely, to bring concrete solidarity. Of course, there is nothing we can do for the two spouses; however, we could and should do something for their children. We could and should do something for all of us, because as a famous song used to say so many years ago we are the others and what happened to a family that came back from a nice evening with friends could happen to all of us, if we do not get to discipline a problem that unfortunately concerns all of Italy. That is why, in the right direction, the League Group has presented the draft law on drugs, of which I hope a rapid path of approval to ensure that these absurd tragedies can be reduced, if not eliminated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u255	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-97.ana.u256	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 7 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.59.
