ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 19 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to which the President of the Council of Ministers will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Steger has the right to explain the question 3-00620 on measures to support the economy and stability of public finances, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u4	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the growth estimates contained in the last budget law are proving to be very optimistic as regards the actual economic performance figures. Eurostat data for the last quarter of 2018 indicated Italy as a taillight in European growth, as well as as as the only country characterized by the minus sign. Data on industrial production paint an alarming picture, with the worst performance for ten years. Even the 2019 forecast doesn't suggest anything good. The European Commission lowered its estimates of Italian GDP growth in 2019 from 1.2% to 0.2%, compared with 1.3% of average eurozone growth. All this physiologically impacts on deficit forecasts. The Parliamentary Budget Office, in the Senate hearing, has assumed a deficit of 2.3%, which rises to 2.5% in the forecast made by the international agency Moody's. Meanwhile, there is still a strong demand for a growth and development-oriented policy, which, according to many analysts, has been the limit of budgetary manoeuvre. Share 100 and citizenship income commit huge resources, but probably do not generate sufficient stimulus effects on growth and development. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would ask you to know whether, given the continuing downward updating of public finances, you do not think that further corrective action on the maneuver is inevitable, on which, according to the newspapers, there would be no doubt, either on the part of the European institutions or on the part of some members of your own Government. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the light of the strong signs of recession, I would ask you to know where your Government intends to find the resources and what actions it intends to take to reverse the negative trend and revive the economic growth of the entire country so much desired. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u5	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, I extend to you all a cordial greeting, very pleased to answer your questions, also because of the inspection and control that is entrusted to the Chambers over the activities of government. I come to the answer to the first question. We are well aware of the macroeconomic framework that affects not only Italy and not only Europe, within a context that sees the whole European continent in a phase of temporary slowdown, also due to commercial tensions. Despite the external shock that has affected our country in the second half of last year, our economic fundamentals remain solid. That is also why we have set up a clear economic policy line, focusing on investment and growth, without forgetting the weakest groups and those in difficulty. An economic policy line that I demand and that we are pursuing with determination. We do not intend to make the agenda dictated by assumptions or predictions of any kind; we respond to the hypotheses with concrete actions. We are following a clear path and do not let ourselves be distracted by dissonant voices that arise from the political and economic debate. We have staked out billions of euros that just have to be spent, better and faster than in the past. We are accelerating the implementation and implementation of the various measures adopted in recent months, so that they can deploy their effects as soon as possible, which will contribute to progressive growth, especially in the second half of the year. We're working on a reversal of course compared to the sign less than the last few months. The Government remains confident in its growth estimates, because we estimate that the second half of 2019 will be accompanied by a loosening of commercial tensions and more favourable conditions for growth. Thanks to a real pact for the yards, promoted together with the minister Toninelli here present and supported by the action of the direction booth Strategy Italy and the mission structure Investitalia, the various reforms and the various fiscal measures introduced, we will be able to bring the country back towards a season of growth and greater social equity. On the other hand, the austerity season has shown us that the economy needs to breathe in the very stages in which consumption and private investment slow down. We therefore do not believe that any corrective action is necessary; we just need to continue with the rational and effective use of the financial resources already allocated. Moreover, we have already adopted certain prudential measures which protect us from corrective action. As a guarantee of compliance with public finance objectives, I would like to point out that the budget law contains measures to monitor public accounts and in addition a specific mechanism for the provision of resources of up to EUR 2 billion that can be used or not depending on the state of the economic cycle. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u6	Senator Steger has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we fully share your objective of growth and social cohesion. However, we are very concerned about the current situation. We believe that the macroeconomic framework is worrying and that it is not a passing situation. We also believe, even if you say that this is not the case, that a maneuver will be necessary because the economic framework is not going to improve in the coming months. I hope that you are right, however, Mr President, if you look at the data of the major political economies in Europe, you can see that there is a worrying economic situation, accompanied by the problems we have in financial policy, so we risk a great deal. I hope you are monitoring the situation well and that you have in mind, if corrective measures are needed, measures to help unlock investment because we need further simplifications. Since Minister Toninelli is also present, I would like to remind you of the need to work on the procurement code. On this front we must be quick because the country needs growth to continue, or start again, in the coming months. Personally, I am quite concerned, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u8	Senator Mallegni has the right to explain the question 3-00625 on the impulse to government activity in order to facilitate the improvement of the economic and financial framework, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all we would like to express our solidarity with what happened to the European Parliament a few days ago with the intervention of Belgian Member Verhofstadt, because we believe that such behaviour should never take place. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] We as Forza Italia have never done so and never allowed ourselves to override and cross the borders of the State to go and teach someone else something. At the same time, however, Mr President, allow us to reflect: you unfortunately do not exercise your prerogatives under Article 95 of the Constitution. We know perfectly well that on 4 March a result came out that did not allow the formation of a majority that could govern according to the electoral result itself and we know well that in June a government came out that produced something different from what the voters had decided, that is, you produced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That you are not in a position to play your role is seen from your statements, from your statements, from the question of the deficit-GDP ratio of economic maneuver (2.4% insurmountable, which then became 2.04 kneeling before the European Commission), from your statement after the adoption of the budget law: 2019 will be a beautiful year, for those who have not yet discovered it, certainly not for the Italians. There had to be fewer taxes and there was no tax, there had to be deductions for businesses and there was no tax, unemployment galloped and industrial production dropped by 8%. So we have a spontaneous question, which is similar to Mr Steger's question just now. We want to know whether the economic maneuver, which the Under-Secretary of State for the Presidency of the Council, called for, and then take it back after a few minutes, is something that will be at Parliament's attention, or whether we will find it through a tweet or a press release. How will you resolve the issue of the 23 billion VAT clauses for 2020, given that actions must be put in place before the end of the year? In short, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not want to paraphrase the one we said had played a wrong role in the European Parliament. But I say to you: be the President-in-Office of the Council, exercise your roles and finally tell us what's going on. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u10	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u11	Dear Senator, I would like to reassure you that the undersigned and any Minister who composes this Government is in full swing of its prerogatives. Of this it can be absolutely quiet. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We all act with the firmest determination and we have the objective of defending the interests of Italians; it is the only reason that inspires us, it is the only reason that guides us. With regard to the merits of the specific questions he posed, I think it is appropriate to stress that the economic policy strategy put in place by the Government addresses not only the cyclical phase, in which we observe - as we have already said - an economic slowdown due to increasing commercial tensions throughout the European continent, but above all also the reasons why our country has accumulated in the last decade (not yesterday or the day before) a structural delay in growth compared to European partners. I would like to point out that, on the taxation front, the Government has introduced many forms of tax relief, aimed at promoting investment and employment. These include the flat rate of 15% for VAT consignments and small enterprises with revenues below 65,000 euros already in 2019; the reduction of Ires from 24 to 15 percent for companies investing in capital goods and increasing the number of stable assumptions; the average reduction of 32% of INAIL premiums and contributions (we are talking about a real cut in the tax wedge); the doubling from 20 to 40% of the deductibility from the corporate income of the IMU paid by companies on their capital goods (and various other measures). The attention to the world of businesses therefore lies, especially in the world of medium and small enterprises, with important measures, including the refinancing of the "New Sabatini" for the purchase of capital goods or measures that unblock payments. All entrepreneurs must know (some still do not know) that they have the possibility to obtain timely payments from the public administration through triangulation with Cash deposits and loans. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We have refinanced the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises and development contracts. We have introduced measures to support technological innovation, such as the blockchain fund and the so-called Internet of Things, namely the extension of the network to the world of objects and concrete places. As far as corrective action is concerned, I have already clarified this and I repeat it: we do not see any need to discuss corrective action. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , also because of the prudential measures that we have already introduced into the budget law. Finally, the Government reiterates its determination to defuse the VAT safeguard clauses for the years 2020 and 2021. I would like to remind you that it has already done so for 2019: in 2018, in the course of a few months, we have opposed the increase in VAT for a value of 12 and a half billion. Similarly, we are working for the current year and next year, relying on the various measures of economic growth and on specific measures to rationalise public expenditure. We are working on a comprehensive revision of the tax expenditures system, also aimed at remodulating tax deductions in terms of productivity and efficiency. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u12	Senator Mallegni may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not good for Rome to be quiet, and I could say to you that, in my opinion, it is even less good for you. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I have something else to tell you, Mr President, once again I regret to have to stigmatize that you are completely detached from reality, because the real world of what you have just mentioned has not yet noticed. The numbers are falling steeply, the employment is really at a hallucinating level (this morning we are at 34% of the youth employment), the companies that deal every day with the local authorities, according to the rule that you have included in the budget law for the release of municipal taxes, having choked mayors and local administrations, will be forced to increase taxes on what are the productivity of every day. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Moreover, the deductions, which you mentioned on the issue of the IMU, will disappear absolutely because the tax burden will rise to such an extent that it will not allow any relief on the part of the companies. That's the truth. We await it on 27 or 28 May, you decide on the day, when the outcome of the European elections will surely come to the House - perhaps, because we do not yet know how long this Government will last - to tell us that it will probably be essential to make corrective action. Everything before the European elections does not exist, and this also applies to families, including those with disabilities. I would remind you that we are discussing the income of citizenship from which all kinds of benefits have disappeared for families with disabilities and for large families. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] A citizenship income in which minorities are prevented from being able to carry out their views, by cutting off debates, by closing the Commissions and by deleting amendments that you have tabled to the Commission and, out of fear, withdrawn. That is the condition in which we live and then, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I say to you, with respect and with hope, to exercise the role that the Constitution assigns to you under Article 95 and try not to put the Italians in a position to agree with the Belgian MEP, because many people today think so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u14	I would like to say hello to a student representation at the Stanford University in Florence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u15	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-00621 on the guarantee of the essential levels of performance in the context of differentiated regionalism, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u16	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know perfectly well that this has been the first time since 2001, since the reform of Title V was approved, which, in some way, several regions have called for under the third paragraph of Article 116 of the Constitution. In our view, we are proceeding in the absence of precedents and a clear and defined framework within which to build agreements. Moreover, with regard to the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 14 February, we were only able to read the statement in which it is simply said that, following the illustration of the agreements reached with the regions concerned by the relevant Minister, the Council of Ministers took note of this and shared its spirit. In this way, we still do not have the clarity about the parameters within which we are moving, in the total and complete absence of participation and information in Parliament. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as far as we are aware, knowledge and reading are concerned, the demands of the regions could involve, together with the new powers, also the transfer of the resources deemed necessary, calculated on the basis of standard requirements. This would in fact lead to inequality with other regions and, above all, the level of citizens' rights in those regions would be guaranteed on the basis of the income of residents. Thus, citizenship and the possibility of exercising its rights would in fact be linked to residence. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know better than we do that Article 117 of the Constitution states that the State has exclusive legislation on determining the essential levels of benefits relating to civil and social rights to be guaranteed on the ground. So we ask you how the Government intends to proceed, before arriving at the transfer of competences to one or more Regions, in order to guarantee in advance the essential levels of performance and what levels of quantity and quality of the services offered it intends to guarantee throughout the national territory, as enshrined in Article 117 of the Constitution - as you know - anchoring the transfer of resources on the subjects assigned to the Regions exclusively with parameters valid for the entire national territory and thus excluding any reference to indicators related to the tax revenue. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you should be well aware that there is an objective limit in the third paragraph of Article 116 and the transfer of powers, namely Article 5 of the Constitution, on the unity of the Republic, Article 3 on the equality of citizens, and the other fundamental principles of the Constitution, such as Article 9 on the protection of the environment and cultural heritage. Among other things, we are very concerned that we want to proceed through Article 8 of the Constitution, which has nothing to do with it, given that it refers to agreements with religious confessions. In this case we are talking instead of a process, which has nothing to do with the guarantee for religious minorities. We therefore express our concern about these aspects and would like to have clear answers from the Government and from you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u17	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this question allows me to clarify a very significant passage which will take us over the next few days, in the coming weeks and in the coming months. It should be pointed out that the process of implementing differentiated autonomy is provided for by the Constitution - it seems obvious to say - with reference to article 116, third paragraph, which assigns the possibility of assigning particular forms and conditions of autonomy to the Regions to ordinary Statute. It will also be worth recalling the scope of the subjects in which these additional forms of autonomy can be recognized, that is, all those matters which the third paragraph of Article 117 confers on the concurrent legislative competence and a further number of subjects reserved by the same Article 117, second paragraph, to the exclusive legislative competence of the State, that is, the organisation of the justice of peace, the general rules on education and the protection of the environment, the ecosystem and cultural goods. It is intended, as you know, that powers should be conferred by the law of the State, approved by an absolute majority of the members, on the basis of an agreement between the State and the Region concerned. I would remind you that since the drafting of the contract for the Government of Change it is clear that the path of differentiated regionalism will have to take into account not only the peculiarity of territorial realities, but also the full realization of national solidarity, in the context of the protection of legal unity, economic unity and the essential levels of benefits concerning civil and social rights, regardless of territorial boundaries. At this stage, as is well known, the Executive is completing an intense and complex investigative and negotiation activity, leading to the drafting of a text shared with the requesting regions. The Government is willing to open a discussion with Parliament on the content of this project in the form that will be defined in the next few days, respecting Parliament's prerogatives. The Government is well aware of the centrality of the Chambers in the context of a process of transfer of legislative competences that takes on a constitutional importance and that sees Parliament necessarily and necessarily involved. As regards the request to define in advance the essential levels of performance, I inform you that the draft agreements refer to both the standard requirements and the essential levels of performance. The definition of the standard requirements, in implementation of article 116, third paragraph of the Constitution, does not concern expenditure for the performance of the functions of the Regions, but the expenditure incurred by the State in the Regions for the functions today in charge of the same. Therefore, needs on indicators common to all regions will be dealt with and will be defined by a joint committee composed of representatives of the Regions and the State, responding to unitary criteria for the provision of services in every corner of the country. There is no provision for reference to indicators related to the tax revenue. In this regard, as part of the financial resources in accordance with the investigation carried out by the Ministry for Regional Affairs and Self-government with the Department of Economics and Finance, I can now specify that the transfer will take place on the basis of the historical cost, that is, how much the State spends on the territory of the Region concerned for the specific matter to be transferred; the determination of the cost will be identified by a special joint commission State-Regions. The cost thus identified will be transformed into part of the sharing on the erial tributes and established by decree of the President of the Council, on which will be involved the competent parliamentary committees and the unified conference. The financial resources allocated by the State in the other regions will remain unchanged. Within one year of issuing the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the standard needs of the state competences in the individual Regions (all, not only those that have asked for differentiated autonomy) will have to be identified. To this end, a joint State-Regions committee will be set up composed of representatives of the state administrations and representatives of all regions with ordinary statutes. I can assure you that the complex process that is unfolding will, in full compliance with our constitutional architecture, strengthen, yes, regional autonomy where required, but with the safeguarding of national solidarity and cohesion. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u19	I call Senator Errani to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u20	With all due respect, your answer is so general that we are not reassured. What we are most concerned about, Mr Conte, is that, as your words or the text of the government contract show, we are dealing with an issue which concerns the essential rights of citizens, and I mention only health and education, which are national systems, and I think that no one, let alone you, will want to imagine that there are regional teachers or regional doctors. His answer is unsatisfactory because he pretends not to see what the underlying problem is. We are, once again, overturning the path: first autonomy, then we should define the essential levels and standard requirements. You understand that this hypothesis doesn't hold up. And if you had the patience to verify what has happened since 2001 under Title V of the Constitution, you could verify that - ahinoi - it was the Constitutional Court, meritoriously, that defined the real boundaries of national legislation and regional legislation. This is because Parliament has not been able to define the essential levels of performance and the basic principles. If we give more autonomy - certainly, the third paragraph of Article 116 is a constitutional provision and we are to apply it, but with all the guarantees - with regard to the general rules of education, what are the basic principles on education which must be guaranteed by regional legislation? [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is the point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. And if this path is reversed, we will be confused and we will have DIY federalism, which is worse than state centralism, and even worse will be regional centralism. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] You must be aware of this. We are ready to have a serious debate. Then we clear the field. Mr Conte, I have taken your attention to the involvement of Parliament, but - let us be clear - the involvement of Parliament is not some kind of hearing or debate; involving Parliament means abandoning the path of Article 8 of the Constitution, which has nothing to do with autonomy, and building a path for Parliament to carry out its legislative function.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u21	Senator Errani, finish, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u22	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Define LEPs, define basic principles. At that point, we can proceed; otherwise it will be confusion. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this country already has so many problems, and you know that; I am convinced that you know that. We do not build any other elements of confusion and conflict, because the country absolutely does not need this. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u23	Colleagues, I never like to interrupt, but time has been abundantly over, and I must say from everyone. So I would ask you to stick to the times because there is a live television.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italy is the third largest state in the world in terms of gold reserves, after the United States and Germany, with 2,452 tonnes of gold, which today amounts to approximately EUR 100 billion. The Italian gold reserves are therefore among the largest in the world and are stored mainly in the vaults of the Bank of Italy, and in part abroad at some central banks. The gold reserves have always played an essential role in guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of the Italian people. On the basis of studies by eminent constitutionalists, the analysis of the current legislation suggests that these are public goods of almost state-owned nature intended for general use. It is considered that Article 127 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the tasks to be carried out through the European System of Central Banks include the holding and management of the official foreign currency reserves of the Member States, highlighting no possible interference with the ownership and title under which the national central banks hold such reserves, including gold reserves, thus leaving in the field of domestic law the determination of the issue. If that is true, the rules relating to the management activity must be interpreted in the sense that the Bank of Italy manages and holds, for the sole purpose of deposit - I emphasize - the gold reserves, without prejudice to the right of ownership of the Italian State on those reserves, including those held abroad. Then, an explicit specification on the ownership of the gold in question by the Italian State becomes necessary, seen and considered the hybrid nature assumed by the Bank of Italy over the years as a result of the numerous legislative interventions. The Brothers of Italy Group has long been calling for a clear and definitive ruling on the ownership of the gold reserves held by the Bank of Italy. Moreover, the subject has become extremely topical in view of the recent statements by institutional representatives of the Bank of Italy and authoritative representatives of the majority of the Government. Expected that Brothers of Italy believes that the gold reserves cannot be used to cover budgetary needs, but must remain as a reserve to guarantee the solidity of the national heritage, we ask to know, in the light of the above, what is the position of the Government regarding the ownership of the Italian gold reserves and whether it is intended to state clearly and unequivocally that they belong to the people and to the Italian State and not to the Bank of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u25	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u26	Dear Senator, in relation to the question you put, I would like to point out that the gold reserves have always been recorded in the assets of the Bank of Italy's balance sheet and that the purchase and sale of gold and gold currencies have always been included among the transactions of its relevance. Even after the gold standard was exceeded, central banks continued to have gold reserves in order to strengthen confidence in the stability of the financial system and the currency and to diversify the value of their reserve assets in order to keep their value balanced. Under the Maastricht Treaty, by the will of the contracting States, sovereign powers in monetary policy have been transferred exclusively to the European Union (it is, of course, well known). As a result, the holding and management of currency reserves, including gold reserves, is now one of the core tasks of the euro system, consisting of the ECB and the national central banks of the euro area states. The gold reserves in the availability of national central banks can also be used, as well as for foreign exchange intervention, to fulfil commitments to international financial institutions or to carry out the Treasury's foreign debt service. It does not seem possible, moreover, that the gold reserves can be claimed by the participants in the capital of Banca d'Italia, whose capital rights, as is known, are limited to the value of the capital and the annual net profits. National central banks must be able to exercise their power to hold and manage reserves independently; national, legislative and government authorities must respect the independence of the ECB and the national central banks, under the European Treaties signed by the Contracting States. From the point of view of institutional independence, the national central banks cannot be subject to binding requirements as regards the performance of their institutional tasks in matters falling within the competence of their system, including with specific regard to currency reserves: Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 7 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) require us to do so. States must also respect the financial independence of central banks by ensuring that they have sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks. Finally, the Member States have decided to adhere to the prohibition on monetary financing: I refer to Article 123 of the Treaty. It prevents national central banks, in order to protect the pursuit of the objective of price stability and the maintenance of fiscal discipline, from providing credit to the State and other public bodies, including the financing of public sector obligations vis-à-vis third parties. The European Central Bank has specified that the prohibition includes any financial provision, even in the absence of an obligation to repay, in order to take into account the ultimate purpose of the rule. In order to understand us, a possible transfer of financial assets from the balance sheet of the Bank of Italy to the balance sheet of the State would therefore fall under this prohibition. It appears, therefore, from the legal framework described, that the property of the national gold reserves is of the Bank of Italy, a public body that carries out the functions of central bank of the Italian Republic: the use of the gold reserve is one of the institutional purposes of the bank to protect the value of the currency. A regulatory intervention aimed at changing the structure of the Bank of Italy's golden property, even if within the framework of the political discretion of the national legislator, should therefore be assessed in terms of compatibility with the basic principles governing the European System of Central Banks. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u27	Senator Rauti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u28	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I respect your role but, with political sincerity, I must say very clearly that the Brothers of Italy Group is not only not at all satisfied with your answer, but is also concerned because, unfortunately, you have not only eluded the basic question, namely the actual ownership of the gold reserves, but has gone further, explicitly stating that the reserves are Bank of Italy's. This, in addition to having no precedent, is in contradiction with what authoritative representatives of the majority of the government that you chair. We continue to stress, however, that legislative action is necessary - and not to be assessed - to correct an objective defect and to fill a regulatory vacuum. We continue to think, consistently, that gold belongs to Italians and that this principle should not be stated, but must be certified, specifying the legal aspect of the legal property of gold. This is also because we do not want the gold of the Bank of Italy to be used for other purposes, i.e. - allow me - to plug the holes in public finances or to avoid corrective manoeuvres, in short, to correct disastrous economic policies. On the use of the gold reserves, it is clear - we know - that there are stakes: the aforementioned Treaty of the European Union, but also the stakes imposed by the European Central Bank, to which the Director-General of Bankitalia also appeals in search of an answer that is not there and that does not arrive. We are convinced, instead, President, that the strengthening of the country passes also through the public property of Bank of Italy, and for this reason we have presented a bill on the nationalization of the Bank of Italy and on the return to the Bank of Italy of the gold resources at this time guarded abroad. We also strongly call for the vote in this House to be taken on our motion for a resolution on gold reserves, hoping that we will also have the support of those forces which are supposed to be sovereignist but which, then, to the policy of the facts, in fact, do not concretize sovereignism or lay the foundations for it. The gold held by Bankitalia, in our opinion, is of the Italians and of the State; everything else - allow me - is a sovereignist rhetoric, if we then bend, in the logic of concrete things, to the strong powers and to the great finance instead of defending the monetary autonomy and the gold, which is of the Homeland and which is not and cannot be considered of the banks. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u29	Senator Marcucci has the right to explain the question 3-00626 on measures to deal with the worsening economic situation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u30	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your willingness to be here today. You will have listened to many colleagues from different groups concerned about the situation to which you are bringing our country and our economy and today - at least until now - I am leaving this session even more concerned - the Democratic Party comes out even more concerned - because either you pretend or you do not know. The situation is very serious: you are bringing the country - and the data show this - into a situation of unprecedented gravity. In a heartfelt speech that I had the opportunity to make before you at the end of the debate on the budget law - a debate that was not really there, because you did not allow us to read it and deepen it - I appealed to you, Mr President: to become aware and to assess the emergency in which you were bringing the country. Well, she told us that after the maneuver, for example, the spread would drop. Then you also explained to us that the spread did not affect the citizens and not even the public accounts: those 2 billion euros that you have set aside will barely be enough to cope with the spread so high, as you have determined it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Today the last figure attests that the spread exceeds 270 points again. Spain, which has had a greater spread than Italy for many years of central-left government, is now at 107. These are 163 points of difference, which are attributable to your bad government and your bad management, which is paid with public money and which the Italians are paying with interest. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You're taking the industry into hallucinating situations, with a drop in productivity and production. There are incontrovertible data. You knew that the GDP figure you included in the budget law was not feasible, you told and continued to tell lies, like the one you will not take the measure to settle accounts in June or July, because there are no conditions. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, presented yourself to the Italians as the lawyer of the Italians. You know very well that a lawyer's first duty is to be serious, sincere and transparent. You and your government are neither serious, nor sincere, nor transparent with Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] You are continuing to give the numbers - wrong numbers, which are bringing Italy to the abyss - exclusively to have an electoral gain, but the Italians are not stupid and they are realizing it. Even if today, here, in the Chamber, your Government is not yellow-green, but it has become only yellow, as evidenced by the presence of the representatives of the Government, the whole Government is responsible for everything that you are doing wrong to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u31	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u32	Mr President, on the issues that have just been raised, I would like to remind you that the Government wanted to draw up an expansive budget law precisely in order to counter the economic slowdown due - yes - to international trade tensions and that it was possible to foresee as early as the third quarter of 2018. There was negotiation with the European institutions, during which the government had the opportunity to prevail its own reasons and interests. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This negotiation has been successful, avoiding an infringement procedure which would - yes - have weighed on the prospects for future growth. This negotiation also denied a narrative of which the Government was the victim in the first months of its mandate, about the European positioning of the country, eliminating tensions on bond markets. I have said and I repeat that no corrective action is being taken. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I have already anticipated and I repeat that this Government has moved in a prudent manner and has introduced prudential measures for the event that the public accounts are faced with less favourable scenarios. The government's action in support of growth is based, in reality, on a large public investment plan, which will add 15 billion to the resources already placed in the budget for the next three years, and on a careful action to relaunch investments in the territories. I recall that I have signed the two decrees establishing the Italian Strategy and the mission structure Investitalia, which will accompany the central administrations and local authorities in the revival of public works and in the modernization of infrastructure. Just yesterday I signed the decree that starts the National Plan against hydrogeological failure. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] It is a fundamental step to unlock all the safety works that our territory needs, which at the same time constitutes a further engine for economic activity. In the plan just approved we foresee various interventions, distributing emergency measures, prevention, maintenance and restoration, as well as simplification. The plan, although multi-annual, contains a plan for 2019 with investments of up to 3 billion euros, to be spent immediately. Overall, the country's economic fundamentals remain solid. A stability of the labour market, as evidenced by the employment indicators of December 2018 issued by Istat, also corresponds to a framework of stability of the banking system and the financial situation of households, as reported by the Bank of Italy itself. The level of interest rates applied by banks on new transactions to households and non-financial corporations remains stable and, in some cases, suffers a downward revision with negligible differences on an annual basis. At the same time, the massive sale of deteriorated loans continues, of which EUR 15 billion were securitisation or transferred in December 2018 alone. While it is true that there is a slowdown in the growth rate of credit volumes, which still remains positive, this is consistent with a phase of economic slowdown that, as I said, we are confident that we can reverse thanks to policies that are in place. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] Senator Marcucci, a final reflection: the Government intends to address not only the short-term needs, but also reverse the low-growth structural trend of the past years and which has seen us at the last places in the ranking of growth on a European scale, despite the monetary policies put in place by the ECB and a much more favourable international economic framework than the current one. [[Extended applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u33	Senator Marcucci has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u34	Mr President, the rules on timing in Parliament apply to everyone, including the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] I am also sorry for the groups that should intervene after us, so I would like to emphasise this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u35	I keep giving the time, but it seems to me that no one has respected them today, even putting live television in trouble. I've said it repeatedly, but I don't like it and I never interrupted anyone. Everyone's been piercing.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u36	Mr President, you have said that by addressing the Groups, but perhaps you should also tell the Government. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that it will be a beautiful year, this: it will be for you and perhaps for many of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League who have an important position within the government or one of the many sub-government seats you have occupied. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Maybe it will be a beautiful year for you and for this, but I fear it will be very bad for our country and for the Italians, for what you are doing wrong. You in Parliament, where you are obviously not used to being, because it is not in your personal experience, should come, speak and listen, because sometimes reading only the task they have prepared for you may not be enough or give you all the information you need. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] What did he mean by that, claiming it's going to be a beautiful year? To think wrong, in this case, perhaps you do the right thing: you may be fulfilling your goals and this majority, that is to have a more insecure country, with more unemployment and going towards the happy decline. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] A country in which Minister Toninelli, properly positioned by his side, blocks all public investment, where you, with the budget law, have removed the incentives for private investment and for the new employment of young people. MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Mr Marcucci (PD). You have done an action that goes straight to put a serious mortgage on the future of our country and our young people. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] You are taking a serious responsibility and you should have at least the courage of sincerity and transparency: this courage, today, in this House, I have not heard from you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u37	Senator Bergesio has the right to explain the question 3-00623 on the safeguard of the productive role of Alstom plant in Savigliano, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u38	Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, I would like to address you on the Italian production and employment situation of Alstom, a French industrial group operating in the field of train construction and railway infrastructure, which has recently come to the fore in the news that the European Commission has not authorised the merger with German Siemens. In Italy the group operates through Alstom railway in three plants, with a total of about 3.000 employees and an induced that exceeds 5.000. Alstom railway represents a flagship of Made in Italy thanks to the center of excellence of Savigliano, in the province of Cuneo, where Pendolino trains are manufactured, as a result they are Italian orders. The production of trains in the site of Savigliano takes place at altitude with a production site of Alstom group located in Poland, that of Katowice. In 2017, Alstom Ferroviale SpA launched a research and development project on the new regional train platform. The Piedmont Region has participated in the program through the appropriation of 544,000 euros destined to the site of Savigliano. As far as we know, in recent months an increasing proportion of production would be moving from the site of Savigliano to the Polish one. We would like to know whether the facts of which we have learned from the information obtained in a meeting with the trade unions and the trade union representatives (RSU) of the companies are truthful and what initiatives the Government intends to undertake regarding the occupational and productive safeguard of the plant of Savigliano and consequently of the whole path of the Italian employees (important is the productive quota of the plant of Savigliano), also taking into account the public interventions granted both at regional and state level with the National Plan Industry 4.0. It would be useful for us, in fact, to understand how and whether it will also be possible to intervene in the light of the recent changes introduced by the Decree of Dignity, approved by this Parliament, on measures to prevent the relocation of sites promoted by public resources. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Donno]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u39	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u40	Mr President, the Government is aware of the events concerning the Alstom Group and of the fact that the company is engaged in a research and development project, but there is a need for clarification. Following the notification to the European Commission of a possible merger between Alstom railway and Siemens, as you know in June 2018, a meeting was held on 28 January 2018 at the Ministry of Economic Development to take stock of the above-mentioned merger process and its impact on the company's establishment in Savigliano. In the meantime, the European Commission has expressed its negative opinion on the merger between Alstom and Siemens, finding that there is a risk of competitive harm in the markets for rail signalling systems and high-speed trains. Indeed, it was pointed out that the measures envisaged by the company to the outcome of the first doubts as to the possible negative impact of the transaction on competition and the internal market in the Union would not have been appropriate to remedy the concerns raised. This decision, among other things, has led Germany and France to propose a manifesto to amend the rules on mergers and antitrust in the European Union in order to promote mergers between European companies. It is an initiative that I would like to judge quite singular, which is characterized by a bilateral approach once again, despite its aim to establish itself in a European context. It is clear that a manifesto of bilateral industrial policy between two authoritative countries seems inappropriate in order to bring about a change in European competition rules, but first of all a preliminary discussion is needed in the appropriate European fora, with a view to a peaceful confrontation between all the Member States in order to arrive at a joint reform project respecting the interests of all European citizens. In short, I confirm the commitment of the Government to monitor the activities of Alstom, in order to prevent criticality in the plant of Savigliano that it represents an excellence in the Italian railway field. I would also like to point out that on 7 April 2017 a programme agreement was signed between the MISE, the Lombardy Region and the Piedmont Region for the financing of a comprehensive research and development programme aimed at developing innovative technologies for the construction of different types of trains. This government, therefore, will continue to pay the utmost attention to this matter, as it is one of the main points of government action to curb, indeed to counter the relocations that have characterized this country for years. In this last regard I would point out that one of the first regulatory measures of this Government - you will remember well - was the so-called decree dignity which, careful, is not only modifying the structure of the labour market in favour of more stable relationships (and I refer to the latest data just released by the INPS). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'AZ groups]] The Dignity Decree also provided for the obligation for companies that have received State aid in order to make productive investments not to transfer for five years to countries outside the European Union the economic activity that has benefited from public support. If this is not the case, it is also provided for the forfeiture of the benefit granted and for the imposition of an administrative penalty. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'AZ groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u41	Senator Bergesio has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your helpfulness and, above all, for your clarification. We believe that the issue of Alstom in Savigliano, in its solution, may be the beginning of a new defence policy - as he said before - of Italian industrial production and consequently of employment. When we approved it we were convinced that the decree of dignity - whose law of conversion was passed by this Parliament - was not only the title of a decree-law, but legitimated, in its application, the true dignity, which is that of companies and workers, to which the legislator, in this case the whole Government, has been inspired from the beginning. We therefore hope that this type of intervention will be monitored and, above all, the work of the group in question in favour of its workers, but also of all the companies involved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u43	Senator Patuanelli has the right to explain the question 3-00624 on the start of the coordination structures for the implementation of measures to secure the territory, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Conte, I would also like to thank you for the calm and precise answers you have given so far. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If those who are in opposition today had reserved, when they were a majority, the same attention and concern they have towards this Government with regard to what the governments of the last legislature did, we would have avoided finding ourselves with 5 million poor people, with bridges that collapse and with rivers that disappear every time it rains. So thank you for giving us timely answers. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Regarding the issues related to the infrastructure and the hydrogeological failure, you mentioned several times, in the answers to the questions that preceded me, some actions that the Government has planned to put in place: first through the approval of the so-called decree Genoa, with the institution of a direction cabin that has the task to verify the state of implementation of plans and infrastructure investment programs, as well as to verify the state of implementation of investments related to risk factors for the territory, such as hydrogeological risk, seismic vulnerability and situations of particular environmental degradation needing reclamation activities. Then, by means of the budget law, Parliament approved a text requiring the President of the Council of Ministers to set up a mission structure to support the activities of the President of the Council on the coordination of government policies and the political and administrative direction of Ministers in the field of public and private investment, called Investitalia. Investitalia should therefore operate directly dependent on the President of the Council of Ministers also in conjunction with the direction cabin Strategy Italy, referred to in the aforementioned article 40 of the so-called decree Genoa. Considering therefore that the establishment of the aforementioned connecting structures appears necessary in order to implement a plan of security of the territory, as well as to identify operational solutions in the matter of investment and modernization of the infrastructures and that it is indispensable, therefore, to guarantee balance and sustainability to the fragile hydrogeological order of the territory, through solutions coordinated at national level of the aforementioned connecting structures, it is asked to know what is the state of progress of the procedures for the establishment of the cab of direction of Investitalia and for the approval of the relative decrees in order to be able to dispose as soon as possible of the same structures. Moreover, it is asked to know what initiatives are being taken in order to implement the investment plans and programmes, as well as the actions related to the risk factors for the territory that we mentioned earlier: hydrogeological failure, seismic vulnerability of public buildings and situations of particular environmental degradation that need reclamation activities. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u45	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u46	Senator Patuanelli, thank you because this question of yours allows me to inform the Assembly of the constant work of this Government in a matter that we consider fundamental: investment. I have already said this: our objective is to return to growth in an economic situation that we know is not favourable throughout Europe, even in the light of the customs war that is being fought, let me say this, in the global market space. In the face of this situation, we must not retreat from fear, instead we must take the path of growth and development with determination and determination, making investment the engine of the growth of our economy. In these days, you have remembered it and I have also anticipated it, I have signed two presidential decrees with which two structures are established that will surely be strategic, placed in the Presidency of the Council, in order to coordinate, manage and accelerate the investments and the construction of new works to be implemented in the Country: Strategy Italy (a direction cabin) and the mission structure Investitalia. Their specific task will be to facilitate the implementation of investment programmes relating to tangible and intangible infrastructure, maintenance and modernisation of public administration infrastructure. They will also have to verify the state of progress of infrastructure projects and support public administrations in the implementation of investment plans and programmes. Our approach to the implementation of the investment plan is based on three basic guidelines: firstly, it is important to ensure a constant flow of resources to local authorities in order to prevent the implementation of the works being blocked even when the regulatory process does not present problems. Secondly, it is necessary to promote capacity building at all levels of public administration, with particular attention to local authorities. In fact, we have often found a deficit in the ability to develop projects. Thirdly, we are trying a decisive simplification of the bureaucracy and obstacles that in recent years have prevented a harmonious development of public works in the country, and it is also for this reason that we are taking very decisive action to reform the code of public contracts, indeed in advance that with Minister Toninelli, here present, we are thinking of anticipating some measures of reform of the code of public contracts, because the country cannot wait and economic growth cannot be delayed. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] As I have already anticipated, yesterday I signed the National Plan for the mitigation of hydrogeological risk, the restoration and protection of the environmental resource, a plan of which in the next few days we will present all the details. It is a project elaborated in full harmony and involving the Minister of the Costa environment, the present Minister Toninelli, the Minister for the South Lezzi and the same Civil Protection, because it rationalizes and defines the concrete strategy of investments Region by Region, territory by territory, already valid from the current year and not in a near future or future. In this way, we also respond to the recognition, which the European Commission has given us, of the flexibility clause in the deficit-GDP ratio. You will remember in fact that the government has asked the European Commission to activate the flexibility clause for the purposes of operations to prevent the hydrogeological failure and maintenance of the road network, for more than 3 billion euros, to be spent already in 2019. Italy has a fragile territory, which we must and can protect in the first place through prevention and security measures aimed at neutralizing the risk of landslides and floods. This, of course, is not just about economic growth, but also about the security of our citizens. This is the most significant and urgent public intervention that our country needs, the real great public work that Italy needs. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u47	Senator Patuanelli has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u48	Mr President, I shall be much shorter than two minutes. I am fully satisfied with your reply, Mr President-in-Office. I think that many times in this country we are closed, with respect to investment, in a debate that has only to do with the appropriations. In fact, we know that there are 150 billion euros in anticipation over the next ten years and that this Government has increased by 15 billion the amount of investments for the next three years. The problem is to have the ability to spend this money, which very often is not spent, and above all to spend it on the works that the country needs and certainly the security of the territory and the seismic safety of our buildings are among the priorities. We have the certainty that, through these connecting structures, we will be able to ensure that the investment plans not only remain on paper, but instead become investments that will finally be able to restart the country's economy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u49	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u52	Mr Grimani (PD). Mr President, I rise to denounce a fact that happened a few days ago in my region, Umbria, in a school in Foligno, an important center of our region. It occurred, during a lesson, that a teacher forced a colored pupil to turn towards the window, inviting him to stare at an external point, accusing him of being too ugly to be turned. This was therefore a very serious and shameful fact, which must also be denounced in our Senate House. This very serious episode is certainly foreign to the widespread culture of respect that there is in the Umbrian land and that has always characterized the people of my Region, a very serious episode precisely in the overall debate of our Country. I hope that there will be clarity. News coming from the Umbria Region has shown how the school manager has asked for immediate intervention from the director of the regional school office and how they are in the process of being sent reports to the Ministry. It must be made clear about the very serious responsibilities that a teacher who behaves in this way certainly has. I believe, however, that a more general, very brief reflection must also be made. The teacher explained that it was a social experiment, something really incomprehensible, but I believe that these behaviors must make us reflect on one aspect: in our country there is an excessive tension, there is an excessively heavy climate, which often leads to the use of expressions and arguments with a racist and discriminatory background, which unfortunately can lead then to generate phenomena of this type. It is our duty and our duty of the institutions to create the conditions for no more facts of this gravity to occur. The responsibilities will be ascertained, we do not have to do so, but it is important that there be attention in the use of arguments and terms, because often when wind is produced, it leads to the storm. It is therefore necessary to avoid these behaviors and Parliament must be warned accordingly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u55	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to thank President Conte for the kindness of the institution, who felt that he could stay with us even after the question time took place. I will just take two minutes, for a few words and a brief reflection. Immediately after the vote of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, concerning the request for permission to proceed with Minister Salvini, who approved the conclusions of the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, the hostilities that had characterized relations within the majority in recent days have ceased. The League has always been ready to hinder, slow down and threaten, in an ambiguous but obvious way, the contracting ally, who could not hide his own difficulty. Suffice it to recall that, in its first parliamentary passage, the decree-law on citizenship income has risked being really upset and not already for the assault of oppositions, but for that of the League, which tried to question some of its founding points. The components of the 5 Star Movement have avoided substantial changes, but they have had to accept compromises, which have made the bureaucracy associated with the subsidy even more complex. It seems, however, miraculously, that we have now reached a leghistic existence on further amendments to the decree-law, after a sort of majority obstructionism, which has slowed down the work of the Assembly of the week just passed. In addition, the agreement on pending INPS nominations and the agreement on a joint parliamentary motion of the Movimento 5 Stars and the League have suddenly been reached, with a view to continuing not choosing on the TAV issue. Is this a cause-effect relationship? I cannot say that, but the agreement has suddenly been reached. At another time it would have been said that bad thinking is a sin, but often it is right. Is it really coincidental that these new convergences between the signatories of the contract took place after the vote of the Junta, in favour of the leader of the League? That vow that has so deeply torn the Movimento 5 Stars? Or is it not a typical event of an era, that we were hoping to have left behind and instead we find very, very close? It does not take much, too much imagination to imagine that there may have been an exchange relationship between the contracting allies. If that were the case, it would be shameful because it would bring us back to unworthy practices, exemplified by all in words: those of the so-called first Republic. The change cannot be translated into the return to those practices, typical precisely of the worst Republic: practices of partitioning and immobilism, aimed at ensuring the survival of a government that now appears clearly firm, but in contrast to the needs and interest of the country, which instead must not stop and that needs a political action of impulse to the economy made of responsible and coherent choices. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u56	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-92.ana.u57	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 25 February, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.29 a.m.
