ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 3 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable until 2 August. Today's session will be devoted entirely to the discussion of the resolution on Italy's participation in international missions. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides for the President's communications on the draft laws related to the maneuvering of public finance in the field of entertainment and artistic-musical training, as well as the general discussion, until its conclusion, of the constitutional bill on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians. Explanations of vote on the measure will take place on Thursday from 9.30 a.m. It will follow the final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate. The sitting on Thursday also provides for the discussion of ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee and, at 3 p.m., the question time, with the presence of Ministers Salvini, Toninelli and Bongiorno. Next week's timetable includes, in addition to the possible follow-up of ratifications of international agreements, the discussion of the following measures: the draft law on the protection of victims of gender violence, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the drawing-up of the bill on the direct call of teachers; where concluded by the Commission, the law of European delegation 2018 with related relations; the decree-law on the improvement of public finance balances and areas of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. In the week from July 23 to 26, the following measures will be discussed: from the writing office, the bill on civic education, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the drafts of law Rendiconto 2018 and Assestamento 2019; where concluded by the Commissions, the drafts of law on minimum hourly wage, video surveillance and detachment Municipalities from the Marche Region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna Region. On Thursday 25 July, at 9.30 a.m., the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the verification of powers will be discussed. In the week from 30 July to 2 August the following measures will be discussed: the draft law related to the public finance maneuver in the field of sports law, approved by the Chamber of Deputies; the decree-law on public order and security; where concluded by the Commission, the draft constitutional law on popular legislative initiative and referendum; the draft constitutional law repealing constitutional provisions relating to CNEL. On Thursday 18th and Thursday 25th there will be the inspection union and the question time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for July and August 2019: - Doc. XXIV, n. 9 - Resolution approved by the United Commissions 3a and 4a, pursuant to article 50, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the analytical report on the ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, referred to the period 1 October-31 December 2018, also at the end of the relative extension for the period 1 January-31 December 2019, deliberated by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2019 - Draft Constitutional Law No 214-515-805-B - Amendments to Articles 56, 57 and 59 of the Constitution regarding the reduction of the number of MPs (approved in first resolution by the Senate; approved without amendments in first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies) (second resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of Law No. 1200 and related to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and other provisions on the protection of domestic and gender violence victims (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - amendments to the Law n. LXXXVI, point 2 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 2 - Consuntiva report on the participation of Italy in the European Union, relating to the year 2018 (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1264 and related - Introduction of the school teaching of civic education (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the competent seat) - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Establishment of the minimum hourly salary (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Measures to prevent and combat conduct of ill-treatment or abuse, even of a psychological nature, to the detriment of minors in educational services for children and in the schools of children and persons hosted in the socio-health and social-assistant structures for the elderly and persons with disabilities and delegation to the Government in the matter of training of staff (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detaching of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and their aggregation to the Emilia-Rome region, in the framework of the Constitution of Rimini, n.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u6	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments and additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 2 August, pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Tuesday, July 9, h. 16,30 - Doc. XXIV, n. 9 - Resolution of the Commissions reunited 3rd and 4th on the participation of Italy in international missions - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2- bis, of the Regulation on the drafts of law: - n. 1312 - Delegations in the matter of entertainment and for the modification of the code of cultural goods - n. 1349 - Delegation to the Government for the codification in the matter of artistic-musical education and training - Drawing of constitutional law n. 214-515-805-B - Reduction of the number of parliamentarians (approved at first resolution by the Senate; approved without amendments in the first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies) (second resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 11, 15) Wednesday 10 " h. 9.30 Thursday 11 " h. 9.30-16]] [[Tuesday, 16 July h. 16,30-19 - Possible ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Drawing of law n. 1200 and related - Protection of victims of gender violence (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 763 and related - Direct call of teachers (from the writing office) - Drawing of law n. 944 - European delegation law 2018 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. LXXXVI, point 2 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 2 - Consumative report on Italy's participation in the European Union, relating to the year 2018 (where concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 1383 - Decree-Law n. 61, Improvement of public finance balances (final vote by 2 August) (decide on 31 August) - Drawing of law n. 1374 - Decree-Law n. 59, Urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Assets and Activities (final vote by 31 July) (decide on 28 August) - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 18, 15 hours) Wednesday 17 " h. 9,30-20 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30-20]] Amendments to draft law No 1200 and related (Protection of Victims of Gender Violence), No 1383 (Decree-Law No 61, Improvement of Public Finance Balance) and No 1374 (Decree-Law No 59, Urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities) should be submitted by 1 p.m. on Thursday 11 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) will be set in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, July 23, 16.30-20 - Following unfinished topics - Drawing of law n. 1264 and related - School teaching of civic education (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (from the writing site) - Drawings of law n. 1387 and 1388 - Report 2018 and Assembling 2019 (final votes with the presence of the legal number) - Documents defined by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in the matter of verification of powers (Thursday 25, 9.30 a.m.) - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Salary minimum hours (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Syndicate inspection - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 25, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 24 " 9.30-20 Thursday 25 " 9.30-20 Friday 26 " 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 1387 and 1388 ( 2018 Report and 2019 Settlement), n. 310 and related (Minimum hourly Salary), n. 897 and related (Videosurveillance) and n. 1144 and related (Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio Municipal Detachment from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 30, 16.30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 1372 - Delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (linked to the maneuver of public finances) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public security (where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (decease 13 August) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1089 - Provisions in the matter of popular legislative initiative and referendum (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (first deliberation of the Senate) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1124 - Repeal of constitutional provisions relating to the CNEL (first deliberation of the Senate) Wednesday 31 " 9.30 Thursday 1 August 9.30 Friday 2 " 9.30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) and constitutional bill No 1089 (Provisions on People's Legislative Initiative and referendum) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law no.... (Decree-Law No. 53, Provisions on order and public security) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to Constitutional Act No 1124 (Abrogating the Constitutional Provisions concerning the CNEL) will have to be tabled no later than 1 p.m. on Thursday 25 July. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 2 and Doc. LXXXVII, No 2 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1383 (Decree-Law No 61, Improvement of public finance balances) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1374 (Decree-Law No 59, Urgent measures in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 40' FI-BP 1 h. 10' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' PD 1 h. 4' FdI 42' Mixed 40' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 35' Dissentents 5']] Breakdown of time limits for the discussion of draft law Nos. 1387 and 1388 (2018 Account and 2019 Settlement) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] We leave with a wish to Senator Sileri, who today became Ludovico's father. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u9	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, as you can see from the timetable that you have just read, approved by a majority of the Conference of Leaders, the discussion of draft constitutional amendments is a little scattered over the various weeks, from here to the summer break. That's to tell you what? We have asked, together with the other opposition groups, for the reduction in the number of Members to be dealt with together with the other draft Constitutional Laws, in particular those on the laws of reinforced popular initiative and those on the CNEL. For a very simple reason, and frankly, I cannot understand why this proposal was not intended, which was certainly not only of common sense, but also more correct from an institutional point of view, namely to have a week devoted to a session on constitutional reforms. This would have allowed the whole of this House, even the senators who did not follow in the first Commission the whole evolution of the various legislative proposals, to have a more comprehensive vision. On the other hand, it was not intended to accept this proposal by including the examination of the draft law on the reduction of the number of Members on the agenda for tomorrow morning's part-session. Why, in our view, did we not want to accept this proposal, which I rephrase here as a proposal to amend the timetable? We propose that the discussion of the draft law on the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament be scheduled together with the examination of the draft law containing provisions on enhanced popular legislative initiative. Why did we not want to achieve this proposal, which is of common sense and institutional sense? Obviously, as usual, because the changes to the Constitution and in particular the reduction in the number of Members are not being pursued with the aim of creating an institutional framework of a certain kind, but there is an anxiety about performance. There is an anxiety about propaganda, about making it an instrument of propaganda to be agitated, as always, against the so-called caste, without realizing the consequences for representative and parliamentary democracy of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians. We have already approved the adaptation of the electoral law to the reduction of the number of parliamentarians and once again I want to make everyone think that this is not a passage to be underestimated: it is a passage that will greatly modify the structure from the point of view of the representation of the territories, of the relations with the electorate and above all of pluralism. Mr President, democracy cannot be defined as democracy unless it has the principle of representation and pluralism of representation as its fundamental cornerstone. You know that, Mr President, because when the Constitutional Court intervened on the electoral law that bore its name, with judgment No 1 of 2014 on the so-called Porcellum, it photographed your thinking very clearly, saying clearly that no element, even linked to the strong need for governability, rationality and efficiency, can compress the cornerstone of representation and pluralism. That is why we find this acceleration totally inappropriate. Among other things, it would have been necessary to wait only two weeks to arrive at a single session on constitutional changes, which in our opinion would have allowed us a much more serious and much more in-depth discussion of the various draft laws. That is why I would ask you to change the timetable and move the examination of the draft law on the reduction of the number of Members to deal with it together with the discussion of the draft law containing provisions on enhanced popular legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u12	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I have to say that at the Conference of the Leaders there has been a bit of a heavy air lately. I have asked the presidency of the Senate to pay attention to our Rules of Procedure and, perhaps occasionally, to have the approach that the regulations are adopted and then try to comply with them; I'm not saying they respect each other all the time. On the other hand, as has been done too many times this year, today too it has been decided to give up the rule of the Rules of Procedure which provides for the distribution of work to alternate weeks: one week in the House, one week in the Commission's discussions. That is the first point I would like to make. If the awareness of the Presidency and the majority group leaders is that that rule of the Rules of Procedure cannot be applied, I am available, together with you all, to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, examine it and amend it. What I do not believe is tolerable is that there is a regulation that in a precise and determined manner and with the consent of the Senate Presidency is decided not to respect. After that, I believe that the proposal made by everyone - I repeat: all the opposition leaders - to have a few more days to discuss this wrong constitutional reform and to postpone its examination until next week, perhaps together with the other constitutional reform measures, must be adopted, which is why we will vote in favour. Among other things, the draft law on the protection of victims of gender violence concluded its process in the Commission and we could have discussed and voted on it tomorrow morning, also respecting the requirements of the Presidency of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide; tomorrow, in the afternoon, and Thursday we would have examined the 14 ratifications planned and the following week we could have gone - with everyone's agreement - to discuss, deepen and vote on constitutional reform. As I said, we live, within the Conference of Leaders, a heavy and difficult climate, probably due to instability and clashes within the majority; however, I think we must really do everything to ensure that this does not adversely affect the activity of the Senate. Therefore, our proposal is the one put forward, we ask to put it to the vote and we invite the majority groups to reflect, instead, on their lack of willingness to oppose, because this is not how the future of the country is built. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u15	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I believe that a large part of the proposal, as we in the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group have articulated it in the group leader, has been widely described and represented by the previous Members. It is not by chance that we have asked for a constitutional session: we are handling extremely sensitive material, the Constitution of the Italian Republic, which is based not only on a principle of popular representation, but above all on a principle of representative democracy. You all teach me this: when you change the number of Members and when you talk about a reinforced popular legislative initiative, you touch the principle of representation; you touch the heart of the legislative power, that is, all of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Colleagues, I can assure you and you must not believe my word, you must believe the votes we have expressed and our behaviour in the Commission, which has always been correct, cooperative, even if, unfortunately, our cooperation has never been paid with the same love and willingness by the majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Today in the Commission, colleagues from the majority, as well as colleagues from the opposition, we also understood why, when we proposed the constitutional session. And I assure you that we had no obstructive intent, but the will to deal with that part of the Constitution that affects all of us, but above all it affects the Italian people represented by us. Yes, because we are not here for a tourist vocation, we are not tourists of democracy: we are representatives of the Italian people, to whom Article 1 refers and all the other 138 articles of the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Collina]] Well, when we proposed that this glowing issue had a parliamentary dignity greater than sixteen hours of general discussion, as the majority called it a take or leave, as if we were pointing a post to the roulette and not as if we were discussing constitutional reforms, the colleagues of the majority told us that they greatly appreciated our advice, but that their proposal was different. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let us say, as other colleagues from the opposition have rightly said, that ours are not advice, they are proposed, because we are the opposition. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Opposition that has all the dignity that the majority also enjoys, with a difference: the numbers, in a proportion that obviously, as opposition, we hope to be able to overturn soon. With this, ladies and gentlemen, I mean that we are still of the idea that, regardless of the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, we can bring this House - excuse me, do not consider us presumptuous - to an active and active repentance. In the constitutional session we talk about all of us, we talk about the country that we represent, we give dignity to this constitutional session, we allow ourselves to be ourselves and not heterodirect subjects, who do only what is ordered from outside. That is not the purpose of the Italian Parliament! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking that we be able to celebrate, next week or in two weeks' time, following the principle of alternation, a constitutional session involving the amendment of the Constitution on the number of Members of Parliament, the reinforced popular legislative initiative (or the proposed referendum that you say you want) and the abolition of the CNEL, all together, as it is right that it is and as the constituent Fathers would have wished. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u16	To sum up, if I understand correctly, Senator De Petris proposes that the examination of the constitutional bill on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians be combined with the discussion on the proposed constitutional amendment law on the popular legislative initiative ( referendum), in the week from 30 July to 2 August; Senator Marcucci proposes that tomorrow the draft law on feminicide and ratifications be included on the agenda and that the bill on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians be scheduled for next week; Senator Bernini proposes the combination of the three constitutional amendments (reduction of the number of parliamentarians, popular initiative and abolition of the CNEL) to be discussed in a constituent session in two weeks' time. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Marcucci. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of proceedings of the Assembly put forward by Senator Bernini. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u17	The next item is the debate on the resolution adopted by the Joint Committees 3a and 4a pursuant to Rule 50 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, concluding the examination of the deal assigned to the analytical report on the ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, covering the period 1 October to 31 December 2018, also for the purpose of the related extension for the period 1 January to 31 December 2019, approved by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2019 (Doc. XXIV, No 9). The report has already been printed and distributed. He asked to speak, to supplement the written report, Senator Candura. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this document, Mrs Thesei will recall the key issues relating to the procedural mechanisms for the authorisation and extension of international missions; on the other hand, as far as the field of competence of the Foreign Commission is concerned, it is necessary to highlight the aspects of international interest of the analytical report, in particular the development cooperation measures envisaged in support of the peace and stabilisation processes. From this point of view, the geographical areas affected by the continuation of the interventions for 2019 confirm an orientation of the Italian action focused mainly on the Mediterranean area and Africa, with a type of actions aimed at strengthening security and stability and supporting the countries most engaged in the fight against terrorism and the fight against illegal trafficking and irregular migration. The total financial needs for the period from 1 January to 31 December of the current year 2019 shall be EUR 296 million, in particular in development cooperation operations, as set out in Tables 45 to 49 of the analytical and technical reports for the extension. With regard to development cooperation and humanitarian mine clearance initiatives (sheet 45), the financial needs (always for the same period of 2019) amounted to €115 million: this is an increase compared to the resources allocated for 2018, which amounted to €99.5 million. The actual resources allocated for 2019 to development cooperation initiatives alone, between development projects and humanitarian and emergency interventions, amount to €111.5 million, of which €64.4 million was earmarked for projects in Africa, €22.6 million for initiatives in the Middle East and €24.5 million for programmes in Asia. Table 46 describes actions to support peace processes, stabilisation and security enhancement for certain countries in Africa, the Middle East, as well as Afghanistan, Latin America and the Caribbean region. The budget for 2019 as a whole is EUR 8 million. Particular attention is paid to the difficult path of national reconciliation in Libya, made even more difficult by the resumption of hostilities on the ground, the consolidation of Lebanon's stability, the political process in Syria under the aegis of the United Nations and the protection and enhancement of Syrian and Iraqi archaeological heritage. In relation to the commitments for participation in the initiatives of the international peace and security organisations referred to in Sheet 47, the total amount requested for 2019 shall be EUR 18 million. The card 48, concerning the contribution made by our country in support of the Afghan security and defence forces (including the police forces), is equal, for the whole 2019, to 120 million euros. Finally, with reference to operational emergency and security interventions in the crisis area (fiche 49), the appropriation for 2019 was EUR 35 million, an increase compared to the total allocation of 2018, which had been 31 million. Most of these funds are intended, given the continuing seriousness of the global security environment, for the enhancement of security measures and the protection of diplomatic missions, consular offices and Italian cultural institutions and educational institutions abroad.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u19	She asked to speak, to supplement the written report, Senator Thesei. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u20	,. Mr President, the Foreign and Defence Committees have examined, pursuant to Law No 145 of 2016, the deliberations of the Council of Ministers authorising Italian participation in military missions and development cooperation interventions for 2019. These are two different acts: the first, which is the subject of our debate today, provides for the extension of the missions already underway; the second, on the other hand, provides for the launch of a new mission in Tunisia. Although it is not being examined here, I would like to stress this new commitment made by Italy to a country that is crucial for the stabilisation of the central Mediterranean and that needs all the support of the international community in the complex process of democratic consolidation that it is going through. I would stress that both resolutions - the one on the new mission in Tunisia and the one on the extension of the current missions - were adopted unanimously in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees. I briefly mention the basic lines of our military commitment, as outlined in the analytical report presented by the Government. The most significant fact is that the Italian presence in international missions is recalibrated, concentrating resources in the Euro-Mediterranean Region and the Middle East enlarged, starting from the areas closest to our country. I quote some particularly significant areas. The most delicate quadrant is obviously the Libyan quadrant, which is a strategic priority for national security interests. Here, in view of the further deterioration of the overall picture, the objective of our presence is essentially to support the local populations, for example with the hospital in Misrata, and the stabilisation of the country. We have a mission of assistance and support that sees a commitment of 130 land means and a maximum of 400 personnel units, as well as the training mission of the Coast Guard and the Libyan Navy. Another important commitment is in Lebanon, both in the bilateral mission and in the framework of the Unifil mission - in which we employ a large contingent, composed of 1,076 personnel units, 278 land vehicles and 6 air units - of which we have recently regained command. The Middle East also sees significant Italian commitments in Iraq - with a maximum commitment of 1,100 personnel units, flanked by 305 land vehicles and 12 air units - and in Afghanistan. In this last theater a progressive reduction of the contribution made to the mission was planned by July, however subordinate to the conclusion of the electoral process for the choice of the new president. Italy, however, continues to be one of the four core countries of the mission, together with the United States, Germany and Turkey, and the fourth contributor for personnel employed, with a quota of not less than 700 units and with 145 land vehicles and 8 air units. Another particularly sensitive theater, especially in terms of combating trafficking in human beings, is that of Niger. Here, after some uncertainties, the bilateral mission has finally started to strengthen the control of the local authorities in the territory, which engages a quota composed of a maximum number of 290 units of personnel and 160 land resources. Efforts in the Horn of Africa are also important. For the stabilisation of Somalia we have a local staff training mission, with a commitment of up to 123 staff units and 20 land resources. In the adjacent seas, in order to combat the phenomenon of piracy, Italy participates in the European mission Atalanta, with 2 naval vehicles, 2 aircraft and a maximum number of 407 personnel. For all the missions already in place, the extension is until 31 December and, for each mission, the analytical report reports, as required by law, two cards: the first with the report of what has been done in 2018; the second with the resources and arrangements for the current year. Each mission statement shall include, in detail: the geographical area of intervention and the place of command; the international mandate and objectives; the legal basis of reference; the composition of the arrangements; the maximum number of staff units; the planned duration; the financial requirements. By returning, for a detailed list of individual missions, to the text of the resolution before us, I would point out that the overall picture includes 6 missions in Europe, 11 in Asia and 17 in Africa. The extension also involves the Secure Sea mission, a national aircraft device in the Mediterranean, and also 5 missions to support NATO initiatives, for the control of the Alliance's borders. There are also common needs to multiple operational theatres of the Armed Forces and the needs to maintain the information-operational device of the Agency information and external security (AISE) to protect the personnel employed. The explanatory report of the Council of Ministers states that the overall maximum annual size of the contingents of the Armed Forces employed in the operational theatres will be 7,343 units. The average consistency is 6,290 units, with a very small reduction (19 units) compared to the previous year. Taking into account the new mission in Tunisia, the overall burden is €1,428 million. Of this figure the largest component, about 1,102 million euros, is obviously borne by the Ministry of Defence; 296 million euros are borne by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; at the Ministry of the Interior are charged about 7,700,000 euros, while about 7 million more are charged by the MEF (for the activities of the Guard of Finance); finally, 15 million are charged by the Presidency of the Council, for the activities of the AISE. Part of these resources (as provided for in the new Accounting Act) is accounted for in the financial year 2020. For the financial year 2019, the total costs thus amount to EUR 1,020 million.This is a very important point, but in expressing their support for the extension of the missions, the Joint Commissions also made two commitments to the Government in the resolution that we have before us today: one in relation to the Sophia mission (sheet 9/2019 of the Resolution) and another in relation to the bilateral mission of assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard (sheet 23). In relation to the Sophia mission, the Government undertakes to operate in the appropriate seats of the European Union, in order to modify the rules that currently identify Italy as the only country of disembarkation of rescued persons at sea. For the assistance mission to the Libyan Coast Guard, even taking into account the worsening situation, the Commissions considered it appropriate to commit the Government to carry out continuous monitoring activities, where the conditions exist, so that only the instruments useful for countering illegal immigration and trafficking of human beings, as well as rescue activities at sea, are installed on the boats provided by Italy to Libya, in compliance with international provisions on embargo. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u21	I would remind you that any agenda for the text of the resolution adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a may be submitted before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, the commitment of international missions today seems even more necessary for the new instability that threatens our country and for the fragility and fluidity of the system of international relations. In short, we have a very dangerous combination of growing instability and loss of capacity in crisis management. There is another element of difficulty, because the nature of the crises - the Libyan question is exemplary - requires concerted and multilateral responses, while the breakdown of the international system accentuates the diversity of priorities and interests of the actors, even if they belong to common multilateral contexts such as that of the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance. It is precisely to reduce and contain ongoing threats and crises and to support the international governance system that our country participates in international missions and cooperation interventions. Today it will also formalise this commitment for 2019. Precisely in relation to the procedure and in relation to the importance of today's vote, I would like to stress from the outset - as we have said several times in the Commission too - a serious infringement of the procedure outlined by the so-called framework law No 145 of 2016. Today is July 9, 2019 and the Senate concludes the process of approval of missions from January 1st to December 31st 2019, session that according to law is expected to end by December 2018. But Parliament's authorization makes sense if one authorizes first and then the missions continue, not the other way around. This is a serious violation of Parliament's prerogatives. We have helped our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars to make this law with difficulty, unanimously, with an important contribution from them too, and at the first opportunity - in fact, it is not the first opportunity, because it has happened before - we violate it in a truly obvious way. It is especially serious because for six months, in fact, our military are engaged for our country in theatres, even difficult, without the necessary legal and political coverage, among other things at a very complex stage of international relations at European and global level. I take this opportunity to thank all the Armed Forces and our military, over 7,000 as we have said, committed in a professional and effective way all over the world. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As far as the substance is concerned, the request for authorization to Parliament, as is clear, is also the seat and the moment when the choices made by the Government and the priorities established in our foreign defence policy must forcefully come out of the media bubble we are witnessing daily and from propaganda improvisations and come to terms with the reality of today's system of international relations, threats, geopolitical balances and the real interests of our country. What emerges from the picture of our international projection, which we are examining today, is in line with previous governments with regard to the areas of Asia, the Balkans, with the historical guidelines of our projection abroad. We also read it from the conclusion of the report; we are also in complete continuity with all the announcements of change. It is a fact that we consider positively, except to observe a certain contradiction with the continuous attacks on the European institutions and with the completely reckless statements of the recent past, such as those relating to the planning of withdrawal from Afghanistan, which are a commercial, since it is - and the President of the Commission has remembered - a progressive reduction, moreover already planned and set with the allies by the previous governments. I am also referring to the statements by Vice-Premier Salvini against Hezbollah, which have caused embarrassment in the circles of the Ministry of Defence and put in serious difficulty the work of our contingent in Lebanon. Secondly, however, with regard to the Euro-Mediterranean area, the Libyan crisis and the migratory flows we are talking about, it is quite clear that there is no political strategy and a strategic and political stabilisation project that can only be defined with the involvement of local actors, the UN and the European Union. We do not get out of the Libyan crisis today without a new multilateral initiative, because the conditions have changed from the recent past. In this direction there is an agenda that we have tabled, on which other colleagues will be speaking. So, as we have said these days, against such necessity, measures like the deployment of ships of our Navy in defense of the ports are almost grotesque, useless or however risky for our military and also for the people who approach the ports. It is worth remembering that Italy in the last legislature has managed to play a leading role in the management of the Libyan crisis (with the Rome Conference, support for the mediation of the UN, the fact that it is the only European country to have maintained the embassy in Tripoli since 2016 and the deployment in the same year of a campal hospital structure in the area of Misrata). He also played a leading role in the management of flows and in the fight against traffickers, first with the Mare nostrum mission and then with Eunavfor Med operation Sophia, leading the European Union to deal with the Mediterranean. On the other hand, we have seen a showy pull from the European Union with the policy of closed ports, the weakening of Eunavfor Med and a showy loss of influence as well as a protagonism that is creating a serious strategic vulnus for the European Union and Italy. Speaking of Eunavfor Med and the lack of overall strategy of this Government, on its improvisation in recent days we have read Minister Thirty, here present, say that it was a mistake to resize the mission Eunavfor Med (in fact, cancel it, because in fact it is an annulment). Of course, it is right: Eunavfor Med is the most important military mission of the European Union, for which Italy had been assigned a leadership role in the Mediterranean and there has been an important recognition. It is right, therefore, that it was a mistake: but, Minister, where were you when the European countries decided in Brussels to withdraw their military ships? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Where were you when Salvini was doing damage around Europe, with negative repercussions and very high costs also for our country, because with the substantial cancellation of Sophia, in fact you left the most critical area of the Mediterranean to the traffickers and the Libyan Navy, which in the new context of Libya today has taken steps backwards? The warnings of new tensions in Algeria, Tunisia and Syria, the attacks on Gulf oil tankers in Oman and the intensification of the clashes in Libya tell us - indeed, they warn us - that it is in the Mediterranean area that in the coming years there will be an essential match for the system of international relations and for world stability. The management of international relations requires capacity, patience and pragmatism, not spot measures. We cannot understand the overall strategy that the Government intends to pursue in the Mediterranean. We need to update a policy for this area in a European and global way, knowing that only a comprehensive framework of measures, for countries of origin of flows, asylum and return, of combating traffickers and cooperation, is the only possibility we have to face systemic and complex crises such as those of migration flows. In conclusion, if we have any chance of responding to the current instability, we must take a decisive step forward together with the European Union and not isolate ourselves in the illusion of controlling our borders. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u23	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u24	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today in this House we are called to vote on our country's participation in international missions. Let me make a few brief points about this: the first relates to the Eastern Front and concerns the NATO border with Russia. On the case we have strong doubts as a Group about the choices that the European Union and NATO are making towards a great actor of international politics, which is precisely the Russian Federation. Forza Italia was the first party to oppose discriminatory sanctions policies which are undoubtedly a far from effective instrument, both from the point of view of diplomacy and from the economic point of view. Our duty-hit companies are well aware of how many daily losses they continue to accumulate in their budgets. It is comforting to know that the withdrawal of the Italian quota in Afghanistan has no longer materialized. We, as a Group, consider Italy's participation in the NATO mission in Afghanistan to be a cornerstone of international missions, albeit with a reduction in our contingent. The commitment to the international chessboard of our country falls within the constitutional dictation, specifically in Article 11 of our Constitution. In this context, Italy's commitment to international missions, but also to civil interventions, is essential in order to promote operations aimed, first of all, at giving the necessary response to persistent threats of terrorism, radicalisation of illicit trafficking, as well as phenomena of instability potentially dangerous for the peace and security of the Mediterranean region. On the other hand, I would like to express our favourable opinion on the substance of the new bilateral mission and cooperation in Tunisia, which is intended to provide support for the establishment of three regional commands for the management of land control activities. This strategic mission is designed to ensure stability in the Mediterranean area also for the purposes of the peacekeeping of Libya, supporting it in that path of democratic transition in place in the country. Given that the link between security in the Mediterranean and the southern borders of the European Union, our country's participation in the famous mission (called Operation Sophia) has played an important role. Let us not forget that in 2015 some 45,000 human lives were saved from the dangers of the sea and human traffickers. As far as the Sophia mission is concerned, I am obliged to make a few clarifications. The rationality of the mission is certainly acceptable and it is in fact the task of any civil country to help those who have been shipwrecked, those who escape from wars and persecutions. However, the Europe Agreement provides that Italy, which already has the heavy burden of directing the whole operation, will also be responsible for receiving and receiving within our borders, without any distribution with the other European nations, all those rescued at sea. I honestly believe that this is absolutely not fair. It is therefore necessary that the Government raises the question of conversing with the European Union and settling the matter amicably. We must safeguard human life and at the same time equalise the resulting burden with a less conflicting relationship with Europe. Ours must be an opposition of responsibility for the role that our country plays within all those international institutions and above all on the various fronts that concern foreign policy. Finally, allow me to thank all the men and women of the armed forces for what they are doing and have done for our country. Forza Italia has always supported our military and to them goes our most felt recognition for what they do every day in any part of the world they find themselves operating. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u25	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like Movimento 5 Stars, we respect our Constitution, which repudiates war, but we want to protect our national interests in the world and, in fact, we have always asked that Italy's international military commitments exclude participation in combat missions and focus on the most important theatres for our country. We hope, therefore, that the progressive Italian military disengagement in Afghanistan, where our soldiers no longer fight, but train and assist the Afghan security forces in the war against the Taliban, may undergo a strong acceleration after the presidential elections planned for this autumn, until we arrive, in agreement with our allies and by virtue of the progress in the peace negotiations in Doha, to the complete withdrawal of our contingent from that distant country where Italy has been present for eighteen years now. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We believe that military disengagement must be accompanied by a greater civil commitment to cooperation in support of the national reconciliation, reconstruction and economic and social development of Afghanistan. How many roads, wells, schools and hospitals could we build in Afghanistan with the EUR 160 million a year we spend today on our military mission and with the EUR 120 million we pay each year to finance the Afghan security forces' war? Let me give you an unpredicted thought. Today, reasoning in terms of Italian national interest, we no longer see the meaning of our military presence in anti-terrorism function in a distant country that does not threaten our security and we see, instead, clearly the sense of our civil presence in Afghanistan in support of a fight that in these eighteen years, for sometimes unconfessible reasons, has passed, to say the least, in the background. I am referring to the fight against opium cultivation and heroin production and trafficking. That is what interests us and concerns us closely since the high-quality, low-cost Afghan heroin has returned to invade our suburbs and to reap victims among our children. Another military commitment not directly linked to our international interests is the one in Iraq that has been going on at alternating stages for seventeen years and that has cost us so far over 3 billion euros and that still today is the largest and most expensive mission with 1,100 soldiers and 235 million euros of annual cost. Here too, as in Afghanistan, there is a slow disengagement (250 men and 35 million less than last year), which we hope will be the prelude to a definitive withdrawal from this country as well. Allow me, finally, to commend the Government for the responsibility with which it has dealt with the Syrian issue, denying its willingness to send our soldiers to that war scene. In Syria it is necessary to sow peace, to alleviate the suffering of the people exhausted by more than eight years of war and by an embargo that has denied medicines, food and basic necessities. I think we need to reopen diplomatic channels with Damascus. Mr President, we are facing a new international scenario, no longer the schematic one and, all in all, the obvious cold war. Multilateralism is the new doctrine of international relations to which we will have to adapt sooner or later. I believe that this Parliament has a very important role to play in broadening opportunities for our country and in establishing good relations with all, with our legitimate interest and harmony among peoples as an indispensable point of reference. Italy must work for peace and dialogue, always as a mediator between the parties. It is our natural gift that must push our role in international missions towards cooperation with other peoples and not towards wars hypocritically disguised as peace missions or humanitarian missions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u27	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u28	Mr President, we are in the hands of a clown and his seven dwarfs. The clown is vice-premier Salvini, who uses migrants as the game... [[Protests from M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] GIARRUSSO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, moderate your terms. FARAONE (PD). He launches it and brings it back many times, as often as he needs to grow his consent (first the Sea-Watch, then the Diciotti and the Mediterranean). They're audiences and he uses them. Then, if there are people who suffer at sea or are humiliated on the quay, waiting for the clown to bring her down, he doesn't care. [[Vivacious protests from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u29	Senator Pharaoh, I'll call you back for the second time. Don't use these terms in the Senate Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u30	FARAONE (PD). The game works and amuses it, so you go on to overflow. In 2019, NGOs landed the tide of 248 migrants, i.e. 1.2 migrants per day. Minister 30, have river meetings of the Council of Ministers to organize helicopters, ships, submarines and special forces for 1,2 migrants a day. Don't you feel ridiculous? Meanwhile, do not spend a minute of your time trying to figure out how to stop the military conflict in Libya, without foreign policy, without pity for the victims isolated from the world and without any humanitarian corridor. [[Applause from the PD Group]] 1.2 migrants per day occupy your time and 20,000 young people leaving the country because they do not find work are instead invisible to you. That is the real emergency: distracting from the young people in the South who emigrate and letting people talk about the boats that dock is the most suitable way to make propaganda of the North 2.0 League. At Vice Premier the NGOs play for his propaganda, while the anonymous barchinos that land in Lampedusa, Mazara del Vallo and Sardinia are not interested (they are too anonymous to make us a direct Facebook). In fact, he orders Rai to silence the mayor of Lampedusa, who would like to talk about it. The clown then... [[Lively protests from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u31	I'll take your word for it, Senator Pharaoh. After three calls, you no longer intervene. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group]] He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u32	Mr. President, members of the government... FARAONE (PD). I'm waiting to talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pharaoh, sit down. On the third call, I took her word for it. Please, Senator Aimi. AIMI (FI-BP). Thank you, Mr President, if you give me the opportunity, I will continue very gladly, also because democracy is respect for neighbour, especially those who are talking. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] If you don't like it, partner... FARAONE (PD). President, I'm waiting to speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Aimi, talk to me. My colleague has concluded. AIMI (FI-BP). I address you, Mr President, but I hear a buzz in the background, even with the use of words that do not agree with this House, especially when addressed to a Minister, to whom respect must be respected. [[Applause from the FI-BP, M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from the PD Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). But what do you have to do with it, you're a majority? MALPEZZI (PD). President, let Senator Pharaoh speak! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, this isn't about you, just relax and sit down. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] Please, we're talking about something serious. Please, Senator Aimi. President, I will continue. If I weren't constantly disturbed, I'd love to. I'm trying. Forza Italia has a great responsibility. He has always been responsible, especially in the field of foreign policy. We have always approved, even in the past, important missions to bring peace and international cooperation to difficult territories, allowing Italy to assume a central role in the system of alliances necessary to be able to define us an important country in the international chessboard. We did, and we want to keep doing it. That is why we shall vote in favour of the advance. They are development cooperation missions, as we said before. There is already a very important commitment, because the burden we have to pay on these missions is about EUR 1.5 billion. We have thousands of young people in uniform who do their duty to maintain peace, and I think we must have a sense of responsibility in the face of this situation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The centrality of Italy is also conquered in this way, at a time of international difficulty (allow me to say so). The world situation is extremely difficult. Let us try to do what we can and I must say that our very responsible strength does everything possible to ensure that these missions can be carried out. However, let me say that we must pay close attention to the reasons why we are engaged abroad, which are also those of blocking illegal immigration, trafficking in arms and drugs. We are engaged in important chessboards such as Afghanistan, Syria, Sahel, Libya and Tunisia (among them perhaps one of the least complicated realities). We have this important task, which we must and absolutely want to honour. Even if the measure has arrived in this House with a minimum delay, none of us want to make controversy. We simply point out that a political vision such as that of Forza Italia could be shared by the entire House, because the central point, in my opinion, at this moment is that we are exposed to very strong illegal immigration and therefore we need to operate in the Mediterranean. We have above all the need to intervene with important naval operations, preventing the borders of the Homeland from being violated. You see, Mr President, we have always respected the Constitutional Charter. There is an article, Rule 52, which is extremely important and which I believe should be mentioned in this House; it concerns the defence of the Homeland, which is a sacred duty of the citizen. Therefore, if we are to defend the Homeland, we must also defend our borders; I think it is more than legitimate. And in order to defend our borders we need to deploy units of the Finance Guard, the Coast Guard and the Navy to guard them. As a result of what has happened lately, with some NGOs that have forced our borders, we have found ourselves in enormous difficulty. On the other hand, the question we have to ask ourselves is this: can Italy alone cope with such an immigration? In Africa we have 1,250 million individuals, of whom about 450 million are in extreme poverty; it is not me who says so, but it is the world bank (in poverty they are those who have to survive with less than 2 dollars a day). A tam tam has spread, a desire to arrive in Italy, because Italy has become a penetrable country where you can stay, maybe even without working. So what should we do, in addition to strengthening borders? I believe that we should, as a first operation, first consider Tunisia's problem. I must thank Senator Craxi, because between the end of September and the beginning of October last year we carried out a very important mission in those places. Under the Dublin Treaty, migrants arriving in Italy must be welcomed and registered in Italy, but let me point out that Tunisia is the first safest port. I do not say this and we do not say it simply because it is in itself a materially safe port, but for another very simple reason: Tunisia has signed important international conventions, from that of Geneva to that of Hamburg on the search and the marine rescue and the Declaration of Cairo on the protection of refugees and refugees. I would remind you that in Tunisia, citizens of even 10 African states are allowed free entry without compulsory visas. There are reception facilities, managed by the Red Cross, the Red Crescent, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the Italian Refugee Council and even Caritas. Political asylum, as provided for in Article 26 of the Constitution, is recognised in Tunisia and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), which is responsible for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers, is also present in Tunisia. Health care is therefore also guaranteed, in accordance with Article 38 of that Constitution. So you have to explain to me why Tunisia is not a safe port. This should, therefore, be the first point of reference for those coming from Libya. If so, we should also have the capacity to strengthen understanding and, above all, international relations in that direction. I would like to highlight another aspect, namely that of NGOs. We have the problem of ships flying a flag. Breaking the flag of a state, for a ship is not simply a folk or costume fact, it is not just a colorful thing. To break the flag for a ship means to have rights and duties and to be registered in the naval registers of that same State. As with aircraft or embassies, this means that when you set foot inside an embassy, an aircraft or a vessel flying a given flag, you are subject to the laws of that nation. Therefore, in the case of the Sea-Watch, the vessel of an NGO that has arrived flying the Dutch flag, I believe that we should have highlighted it and resorted to international level, referring not only to the rules of international law, but also to those of the navigation code. The laws to be applied would have been those and should therefore have been transferred to the Netherlands. These are the reasons why, Mr President, I believe that we also need an extra attention from this House. I should like to conclude by pointing out once again that the port of Tunisia is a safe port and secondly that, if a person comes up or is transported on board the vessel of an NGO flying a given flag, it should in this case be transported to the State of which the vessel is flying the flag. These are the reasons why we have paid particular attention to these aspects and for which the Forza Italia Group will also vote in favour of this resolution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u35	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the order of business, because a very serious matter happened a few minutes ago. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u36	Colleagues, don't complicate things. Senator Marcucci is intervening, and he has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u37	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I refer to the term used by Senator Pharaoh, which you, in your capacity as President, have taken away from him. This is a very serious matter, because taking the floor during a speech in this House means restricting the freedom of expression and criticism to a Member of Parliament. This is a term due to a number of attitudes, a number of ways of doing things, often not mentioned by the Presidency and often happening in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I remember perfectly when I asked the Presidency to call the Vice-President of the Council, Mr Salvini, because with unsatisfied gestures against the opposition he would launch kisses or make offensive gestures, which wanted to provoke irony in relation to our political positions. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, I wonder why this different attitude, depending on the situation and the political parties [[Applause from the PD Group]] Do I have to link him to his membership of the Group? I don't think so, because you're an institution man. So, Mr President, I would ask you to reconsider and allow Senator Pharaoh to speak and finish his speech, because the right of criticism is a right on which we will fight. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Otherwise, we will ask that the same behavior be used with all the members of this House and the insults - you will remember the precedents - have been much heavier than today's, which was not an offense but an ironic criticism of the Vice President of the Council, who, moreover, constantly offends the members and parliamentarians of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] He constantly offends them. Even recently, compared to the presence of fellow Members close to the shipwrecks saved a few days ago, the words of the Minister of the Interior and Vice-President of the Council have been far more offensive than those we have heard in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris]] Mr President, I believe that the right of senators to speak and to criticize the government, even if it is a friendly government - yours - you must leave it to us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u38	Senator Marcucci, live the right of criticism and freedom of expression. However, I do not accept from anyone the right to insult because of insults being spoken of. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] I have called him three times, after which, I take the floor to Senator Pharaoh and also to you because we must continue with the debate. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). No, ma'am, give me the floor. I ask for the floor. FARAONE (PD). You're the first! It's a big deal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The only thing I didn't do is take disciplinary action against him. [[Long-lived comments from Senators Marcucci and Pharaoh.]] FARAONE (PD). Let me talk. And Salvini's insults to me because they're not worth it? Shame! There is no democracy! You're good!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u41	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to bring this debate back to the fore. You know that I certainly do not use the tones I have heard from your colleague, and that is true of all my parliamentary experiences. I think that respect is the basis that we must hold in this House, especially towards people farther away from us because their thinking is the most distant from ours. Since I know you as a politician and as President of this House - and I know your balance as President of this House - I would ask you to look back on your decision, because your colleague has certainly made a mistake, and I think you should also apologise, but that is how we set a precedent. If we go to re-read the parliamentary acts, we find similarities with what happened just now with Mr Pharaoh; we find hundreds of them, not one, and the principle has never been established that, in the presence of offences of this kind - because objectively they have been offended, of which, as far as I am concerned, I am very sorry, with regard to Salvini, the Lega Group and the majority - the word is taken away. Today we establish the precedent that the word is taken away in the face of inappropriate use of terminologies. If there were an expression of respect on the part of my colleague, I think you, Mr President, should reconsider your decision because this is a very dangerous precedent for the future. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u43	What do you want to intervene on, Senator Marcucci? Mr Marcucci (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He has already spoken on the order of business. I have not yet received any statement of apology for the conduct of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u44	[[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Otherwise, I will refer what is happening to the Presidency Council. You should help the presidency keep discipline, Senator Marcucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Under the Rules of Procedure, you must give me the floor. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About what? Mr Marcucci (PD). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. About what article? [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Laughter.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You know that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let's hear it. Mr Marcucci (PD). This is the attitude; she acts like him. Mr President, you offend Parliament exactly as Mr Salvini does, in the same way. She laughs at us and then complains if it's a joke. Go read on the dictionary the meaning of the word "buffon" and then put it in the political context. I believe that you of the League of Offenses in this Parliament have said much more, much more dangerous. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We want to talk, you have to let Senator Pharaoh speak, otherwise the work doesn't go on, President. You cannot claim the right to prevent freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u45	Please read Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u46	Mr Marcucci (PD). Then keep it that way. Do you want to create this climate? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you're creating it, Senator Marucci. Mr Marcucci (PD). Is it in the interest of the country, is it in the senate's interest to prevent a senator from speaking? You can't afford it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci... MARCUCCI (PD). You offend the House, you offend the Members. [[Applause from Senator Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u47	If I don't get an apology, the senator won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u48	FARAONE (PD). But an apology for what? Mr Marcucci (PD). No, you don't have to get anything. We did not receive an apology from Vice Prime Minister Salvini when he offended us on several occasions as MPs of the Democratic Party. BELLANOVA (PD). Apologies why? You offended him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I've proposed an initiative, pursues it. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the hope that your invitation may have followed and that it will be brought back to this House, on many occasions and on many occasions, a sense of mutual respect, I will concentrate, in the few minutes I have, on the very important issue that I think we are dealing with. Allow me, first of all, to point out that the timing of this debate is rather kafkiana: we approve the missions for 2019 in July 2019 instead of, of course, at the end of 2018, beginning 2019. This simply means that approving these military missions now, six months late, has transformed - like it or not - for six months the Italian soldiers and all the very good military on a mission in a kind of foreign armed tourists, without legal or political coverage and without a specific mandate as required by the law. After six months of absolute void, then, here you are approving a package, or international missions. Just to say one, the mission in Hebron ended at the end of March, then two months before the vote authorising it. I would add to this that the situation is even more Kafkiana because, now that Parliament has finally decided to vote on the missions, we have all read that in fact another mission is in preparation for Libya, not the one we are approving, but if I have read and understood correctly, we approve of it all the more, for now announced by the headlines of the press, without subtitles. If that is not the case, the Minister, who is present, can certainly deny it. Nor do I want to go back, for goodness sake, to the telenovela of these last few weeks, which will not even be the last and which, frankly, from my point of view, has been a disgrace for all the European countries, no one excluded, because it was a miserable arm of iron among all, with the improper instrument of 45 shipwrecks left at sea. For how it went and how things are going in Libya, in the presence of a real civil war, with the airport out of use and with our foreign minister, always so cautious and cautious, who publicly declares that Libya is not a safe place, I think the extension you request is irresponsible. You know perfectly well that all those whom you send back through the Libyan Coast Guard (supported and armed by us in the continuation of decisions made before - I must say - on which I had expressed all my opposition), simply send them back to the places of torture, as is now clear and evident. I would also like to refer to my colleague who spoke first on the safe spot, by following the example of Tunisia, which is not part of this European operation; of course, we can negotiate with Tunisia, but to negotiate, like to dance the tango, we need to be two. If Tunisia is not part of this European campaign to combat migrants, I do not think it is possible to go beyond the bilateral agreement we already have. As things stand, in open civil war (even yesterday there was an attack with drones), I think it is good to at least suspend our operation in Libya and give us time to reflect on how to involve other European countries: Operation Sophia has remained without ships, so the drones that I imagine take pictures, but no more than this. I also consider it very miserable to continue as if it were nothing. Since it began, since you extended it, since it was decided by other governments, the situation in Libya has changed profoundly. It is a country with three governments, two parliaments and no state and I believe that it is not legitimate, that it is a violation of international law to send back in the Libyan lagers the saved people. [[Applause from Senators Errani and De Falco]] In my opinion, it is not supporting the Libyan Coast Guard with a reinforcement - if I have heard correctly - of another ten patrol boats that we will lead this affair. Meanwhile, while this grotesque, miserable and cruel farce went on and will occur the next times, as you have seen, undetected barchini have still continued to bring dozens of migrants to Calabria, Lampedusa and Pozzallo. So let us stop for a moment at least to reflect on what we want to do, really without using these derelict shipwrecks only as an instrument of our only political initiative. This cannot be the case for a country and a great country. Perhaps we would even find the energy and the strength to finally take care of the 500,000 irregulars that we have on our country (those that Salvini wanted to expel everyone and then understood that it was not possible to do so), because legality helps security, while lawlessness does not help security and not even coexistence. Therefore, instead of dedicating all your energies to this pathetic diplomatic pseudo-action, I think it's time to look carefully at the bill "I was a foreigner," in question to the House, which provides for the overcoming of the Bossi-Fini law and which perhaps would help us to put some order in our country compared to these people. I don't think it's a great policy to erect water walls or barbed wire, sending people back to death, torture, rape and so on. Are we a great country and we stop for 45 migrants? But are we sure? Are we sure that this is the best way to enforce us in Europe, which, in my opinion, has been the same shame in all these operations? I don't think so. I will ask for a split vote because I have doubts, just as I have doubts about other missions, particularly the smoky one in Niger, because I did not understand what 250 of our military are doing there. All this said, at least as far as Libya is concerned, do we all want to stop for a moment and understand what is going on? I am convinced that we would do a great deal of good, not only to the shipwrecked - poor people - but also to us and to our country. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u51	Mr President, as has already been pointed out, the measure before the Senate today, which should have been approved by December last year, comes to the vote after more than six months, as we are already in July. It is a measure of great importance because it clearly and clearly marks, in the first place, the foreign policy of our country. The international missions, in fact, have to do with the attitude and positioning of our country in its strategic structures of priority national interest, obviously and not only those of the Mediterranean and the great Middle East, but also those that bring us to the Persian Gulf, with the commitment in Iraq, even in Afghanistan in the fight against Islamic fundamentalism and even in some Asian theaters. It is a matter for us of foreign policy, but also of defence, of combating Islamic terrorism that has affected Europe and not just Europe. It is also a question of security and, therefore, of controlling illegal immigration for Italy. For us, for Italy more than for any other country engaged in international missions, this measure is fundamental, strategic for its internal and external structures. The fact that this measure arrives at our examination six months after what should have been its natural date of approval, when the mission to Hebron has already run out and when the strategic mission Sophia has substantially changed its nature, transforming itself into a mission only aerial and not naval (and we hope it is so); the fact that we reach the vote so late says a lot, perhaps too much, about the divisions and counterpositions that tear the Government, as well as, in my opinion, the lack of efficiency and the lack of respect of this Government towards our military abroad, while it must be carried with respect to those who are engaged and puts their lives at risk to support the destiny of their homeland in such difficult theatres. I hope that these soldiers - to whom, I repeat, our respect goes - have not followed the debate that has just taken place in this House: I believe that if they had just been tuned with the Senate television channel and listened to the mutual insults that have been launched, they would have been badly, very badly. I am convinced that our military, wherever they are engaged, do not deserve this. That this is a measure of extraordinary importance also says the parliamentary attitude, because we of Brothers of Italy, but the right even before Brothers of Italy - majority or opposition that it was - has always committed itself to support the international missions of our country, has always voted in favour of these missions and this also concerns other political forces that will express themselves almost unanimously in support of international missions. The debate, therefore, had to be dealt with differently six months ago, with a strategic perspective that did not emerge, for example, in the debate when we heard the competent ministers who were divided, even in the relevant Commissions, on the prospects of our missions and on the possibility of them continuing. Indeed, those who are members of the Foreign Affairs Commission know the political vision of the international missions expressed by Minister Moavero Milanesi, who is of continuity and determination, also in Afghanistan, along with the other allied forces, while a different perspective has been expressed by the Minister of Defence, even on this measure, even in the parliamentary classrooms. This is not good for the country because it affects what our military are doing in very risky theatres such as Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan and even Lebanon. Well, I believe that another perspective is also needed with regard to foreign policy. When this resolution was written - and it concerns a lot, for example, Libya - there was another situation in Libya. Today we are debating a resolution that serves to give financial, legal, legal and institutional coverage to the presence of our military in that theatre, while in Libya there is a civil war with bombings on the civilian populations even in the capital Tripoli. This seems incongruous and paradoxical with regard to the provision that we are examining in these hours, that is to say paradoxical the debauching of the Government that is behind and lags behind the events instead of preventing them, to the point that we are discussing something that has already happened, missions that have already been exhausted and theaters in which the situation in the field has profoundly changed. So much so, that the debate in these hours and the insults we have heard in this House, which the President has rightly stigmatized, we have heard them outside this House from members of the government who have insulted, with epithets worse than those expressed in this House, the Minister of the Interior. In fact, at these very hours with regard to these missions and our position in the Mediterranean, we have heard a Foreign Secretary insulting the Minister of the Interior, a Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council who has repeatedly insulted him in an interview in an authoritative newspaper this morning, but we have not seen the President of the Council withdraw his delegation. President Calderoli has rightly taken the floor to a senator who insulted the Minister of the Interior. MIRABELLI (PD). But why do you have to comment? What's that got to do with you? You're talking about things that don't concern you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mirabelli! [[Comments from the PD Group]] STEFANO (PD). He's gone off the subject! MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, you must tell him that you are in charge of things that do not concern him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Urso... Urso (FdI). I expressed an opinion. I have never insulted anyone in this House. The opinion can be expressed. STEFANO (PD). That's not relevant! Mr Laus (PD). President! Mr Urso (FdI). What would a Council President do about a Undersecretary insulting the Minister of the Interior? [[Comments from the PD Group]] Mr Laus (PD). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Urso! Mr Urso (FdI). He should have and could have withdrawn the delegation and unfortunately he did not. I hope - starting with the conclusion - that our military forces in Herat, Lebanon, Libya, rather than Iraq, have turned off television when the debate on their commitment took place, otherwise they will certainly not have received a favourable impression from a Parliament that on this occasion, more than in others, perhaps should address the issue on the substance, that is, the positioning of our country, starting with what is being done with international missions in our Mediterranean. In this regard, we as a Group have presented an agenda, which will then be voted together with the others, also in reference to the words of the Minister of the Interior that just a few hours ago has hypothesized the employment of the Navy for a naval block in defense of the Italian ports. I hope that we will go all the way down this road, as we have repeatedly called for in this House in every debate on this matter, and that a naval blockade will really take place not downstream, that is, in defence of the Italian ports, but upstream, that is, on the Libyan border. It would also be a warning to the fundamentalist and terrorist groups that are tearing themselves apart at the gates of Tripoli, as well as to stop the illegal migration and restore the authority of our country in the Mediterranean, a theatre of national strategic interest, as I think is clear to everyone, but not just as consequent in behavior. We of Brothers of Italy will vote yes, not looking at this Assembly but at our military abroad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u52	Mr President, I shall try to bring back the debate on the substance of this measure, which I imagine is awaited by the many military and armed forces engaged in 45 missions. I think we should also remember in this House that we have fallen behind every mission. I do not know how many people in this House remember that 54 Italian boys died in Afghanistan and 250 were injured; that is a question that I would like to ask each of our colleagues in this House to know how many of these colleagues remember what happened when we fought against Taliban terrorism, when we tried, with the responsibility of RC-West at Herat, to combat Taliban terrorism. What surprises me in this measure is the very long list and the lack of depth of some points. Let me give you an example: in point 9 we are talking about Eunavfor Med (Operation Sophia). Perhaps some colleagues will remember that Operation Sophia began in 2015, but in its initial determination it was divided into four phases: the first was done; the second was done in half; the third was never done; the fourth was not even discussed. And the most surprising thing is what in the attached letters provided - I imagine - by the government, it says. The Sophia mission provides for the blockade of naval activity: there are no more ships going around, but there are 590 soldiers who do not know what they are doing; there are no more ships, but only two planes. Well, in the attached report it is stated that the mission involves the adoption of systematic measures to identify, stop and eliminate vessels and means used or suspected of being used by smugglers or traffickers. That's not true. It is not true, because the second half of the second phase of Eunavfor Med, which should allow an activity not only on the high seas, which is currently underway (or at least at the beginning), but also in Libyan territorial waters, has never happened. Nor has the third phase ever been opened, which is the one aimed at neutralizing boats and logistics structures. - As a matter of fact, there is a similarity to the report I have just read - used by smugglers and smugglers both at sea and on land - I repeat, on land - and thus contribute to international efforts to discourage smugglers themselves in engaging in further criminal activities. Which means that this government finances a non-existent mission and does not even pose the international problem of activating the real stages that could counter human trafficking. On this hypocrisy we have traveled in recent years and strangely continues to travel also this Government. Perhaps the government does not know or has never read the four phases of Eunavfor Med, but I hope that Minister Trenta has done so and that someone who presides over the government the problem of security - according to the polls, with the support of 68 percent of Italians - will also pose the problem of solving it internationally. We must move on from the UN Security Council and in any case through the silence-consent and consent of the state - or supposedly such - that there is in Libya. This, however, has never happened. Another thing that surprises me about this measure is the 12 million spent on the installation of land-to-air missiles in Turkey. Someone has to explain to me what they are for: Turkey has invaded Syria (if someone does not know, I tell him); it is feeding Turkish gangs of jihadists and therefore has no problem with anti-aircraft defense; and there is no one who intends to bomb it. Despite this, in the name of NATO's connection with Turkey, we are financing the installation of anti-aircraft missile batteries a few kilometers from the borders with Syria to defend Turkey from being not well known as an enemy. On the other hand, we are talking about financing a mission in Niger. I recall that the former Minister Minniti in this House explained to us on more than one occasion that there were two necks of bottle: the one that started from the Libyan coasts, which had to be tightened to avoid departures, and the one that at the border between Niger and Libya prevented the arrivals of those who came from the countries of the sub-Sahel. This mission has never been activated, because the French did not want it to be activated; however, in this document it is written that we finance a mission of 250 soldiers who will never go to Niger and no one to the Government poses the problem of explaining, if they ever go, what contacts have been made with the Government of Niger or if there is still the verification of the possibility of closing that path of as many traffickers of human beings who, instead of the canotti, use the trucks full of poor unfortunates who come from the countries of Central Africa. I conclude with Afghanistan: I do not know how many of you know the situation in that country, but at the beginning I remembered how many Italian lives we lost in that place to defend from the Taliban the legitimate government that the international community recognized (then Karzai, today of Ghali). We defended him with the force of arms and with the blood of the Italian boys: today we are closed with a thousand people in Camp Arena; we no longer even do the training of the Afghan Police and National Army; we no longer have the courage to leave Camp Arena - someone told him - and go to Shindand or Farah, where we were present and where we have activated a stabilisation process. What can I say? I realize that when we make a measure of this kind, we have to make a list of expenditures: 7.343 Italian soldiers are engaged in the 45 missions described here. I just hope that someone in the government is aware of what the Italian military are doing. I have the impression that there is no trace of this awareness, also because no one has spoken or written about it or has posed the problem of improving and upgrading what has been done and has not worked so far. The only thing I hear is closed doors, but the problem is to block departures and to do so there are the instruments, which must be activated internationally, with the collaboration of the Italian and European Armed Forces, but this is not done. As long as 68 percent of Italians know that the League controls the security problem. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u53	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u54	Mr President, I greet the Minister of Defence and the representatives of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a very difficult international scenario, marked by global challenges such as terrorism, trafficking in human beings, ethnic-religious conflicts, climate change, hybrid threats, cyber wars, and so on. During the Cold War period, the world was simpler in many ways. There were two big blocks and inside our country there was a country that produced security: The United States and the others were under his umbrella. Today the world is different and all countries that demand security must contribute to its production. This is why participating in international missions gives our country a leading role in the international community and is a commitment we are required to make our contribution to global peace and security. For Italy, as we all know, there is an added value: in the complex scenario that I outlined before our country is placed by geography in a very little enviable position. It is in fact right at the borders of a crisis that from the Maghreb, passing through Libya and the Sahel, reaches the enlarged Middle East, to extend to Iran and Afghanistan. For this reason, participation in missions does not just belong to our position in the international community, but corresponds to the protection of our interests. It is not only about peace and security in the world, it is about peace and security in our home. In the resolution of 2019, as has already been said, there are some elements of continuity with the past. We must not be ashamed of this, because in foreign policy a great country always maintains a line of continuity. But it is also a decisive change: there is a repositioning of our energies and resources in the areas near us, to counter the most immediate threats and defend our most direct interests. I am thinking of strengthening our presence in Lebanon, where we have again the command of the Unifil mission. I am thinking of the efforts in Libya and the presence in Iraq; I am thinking of the mission in Niger which, after the stalemate of the last legislature, has finally left. I am thinking of the contribution to the strengthening of the NATO mechanism at the south-eastern borders of the Alliance, and so on. I would like to mention one point in the resolution which, as has already been said, we unanimously approved in the Foreign and Defence Committees, where it is said that participation in international missions is an essential component of our country's foreign and security policy, which strengthens Italy's position and prestige in the international community, thanks also to professionalism and staff engaged abroad. I would like to focus on this last point, on the professionalism of our men and our women in uniform who are engaged abroad. I remind myself and the entire assembly that many men are currently engaged in difficult theatres, aware that their actions represent an invaluable contribution to the growth of our country, promoting the awareness of the importance that Italy increases its role not only in the national territory, but also in the most critical international theatres. I am proud to thank all those who, with their commitment, in countries such as Afghanistan, Lebanon, Iraq, Morocco, Somalia and Mali, have contributed and still contribute to increasing the value of Italy and to stimulating development and stability. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In international missions our military are engaged in very different activities: they do peacekeeping operations, but also development cooperation interventions; they train local personnel and contribute to the strengthening of local institutions; they work for the protection of health and for the preservation of the archaeological heritage. In each of these activities they work with professionalism and dedication, but also with humanity; they have an approach that is always attentive to security, but also to dialogue with the civilian populations, with an attitude of balance between the different forces in the field and a particular attention to the weakest sections of the population. It is therefore not by chance that wherever they are engaged they always have a unanimous appreciation, not only in the UN buildings or NATO headquarters, but also in the village assemblies and in the heart of all those who receive the support of our presence. For this reason I would like to conclude my intervention as an officer on leave, thanking all the military engaged in international missions, those who lost their lives and were wounded, representing the Homeland, to those who work every day for the safety of all and for the prestige of our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] I extend my thanks to all the Armed Forces for their spirit of service and dedication. The love of Homeland that moves their work, combined with professionalism, which is recognized globally, is an indispensable element for the world to be a more stable, safe and free place. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u55	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u56	Mr President, I wish to speak in this debate because I was a member of the Defence Commission for a very short time when this motion for a resolution was put to the vote. I hope, first of all, that there will be a climate of serenity in this House and that, as you have asked, we will soon be able to arrive at a solution to the complaints that came out earlier. With all due respect, I also like Senator Pharaoh, also because when a senator makes a tweet - as he did - against the captain of the Sea-Watch 3 and takes a burst of unbelievable and infinite negative comments, I can only say to him: "Thank you for being there." You really are an insurance to continue ruling this country. I think this is the best way to respond. Beyond all this controversy, however, there is a certain nervousness and, especially with my speech, I will try to understand, since we are dealing with the refinancing of missions that also concern collaboration with Libya, what is the Democratic Party's line because we have not yet been able to understand it. I'm taking a brief historical excursion. From 2013 to 2017 there are about 600,000 people. Then, suddenly, Minister Minniti arrives and things start to change a bit: even, on some occasions and in television debates we hear as an example Minister Minniti as the one who had begun to reduce the landings, being therefore also his credit for the realization of certain results. The week after poor Minniti is then completely disavowed by the political line adopted by the Democratic Party. Later, Renzi, in his book "Next" published in 2017, writes: If anyone risks drowning in the sea, it is obvious that we have a duty to save him (...). But we cannot accept them all (...). I wish we could get rid of some kind of guilt. We do not have the moral duty to welcome in Italy all the people who are worse. If this were to happen, it would be an ethical, political, social disaster and ultimately also an economic disaster. Finally, he adds that we: "We have a moral duty to help them. And really help them at home. Then, suddenly, he sends his men, his faithful - from former minister Delrio, to Senator Pharaoh - to the Sea-Watch to defend the captain who violates the rules to bring all immigrants here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But it is not over, because Renzi, as President of the Council, goes to Europe and brings the proposal that includes collaboration with African countries to put hotspots at the borders, asking for assistance and cooperation in patrol activities. The Democratic Party now calls for a separate vote on the resolution, as it does not intend to approve the part on the bilateral mission of assistance to the Libyan Coast Guard concerning that commitment. Colleagues, when you have clarified yourself, we will be very happy to be able to listen to you here in this House. [[Comments from the PD Group]] Make clear for the good of all! Then maybe we can also listen to some of your advice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Grimani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u57	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u58	Mr President, I would like to focus on the much debated international mission Eunavfor Med Sophia, at Italian command. As we all know, the main mandate of the mission is to combat the smuggling of migrants, through the identification and seizure of ships and boats used for transport, thus preventing the loss of human lives in the Mediterranean. Italian Admiral Enrico Credendino, head of Operation Sophia, listed the results of a mission that contributed, only last year, to reduce by almost 80 percent the arrivals of migrants on our coasts, reduced to 1,300 deaths at sea and fought the trafficking of weapons and the smuggling of oil, delivered to the judicial authorities 151 hullists and neutralized 551 traffickers' boats, as well as made efficient the Libyan Coast Guard with training at sea and on land. It is a maritime security mission that does not have among its tasks the rescue on the high seas of migrants, although since 2015 it has rescued as many as 50,000, equal to 10 percent of the total. This data leads us to a due thank you to all our armed forces and, in particular, the Navy. In fact, it is thanks to the professionalism of the personnel of the Armed Forces engaged in the Sophia mission, as in the other missions, that Italy strengthens its position and prestige in the international community. However, these figures also prompt me to take action to point out certain aspects which I think should be highlighted. The last act as German Minister of Defence of the newly elected President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen was to withdraw the ten officers of the Bundeswehr stationed in Rome at Sophia's command. Thus it was decreed the official end of the German participation in the mission, decision that, among other things, had been anticipated in January with the withdrawal of the Augsburg frigate from the naval device. A serious decision that of Germany, taken in response to the legitimate Italian request to review the rules of engagement of the mission, which since 2015 expected to land only in Italy the migrants rescued at sea, introducing a fair mechanism of redistribution throughout Europe. In order not to take charge of the migrants saved at sea, the solidarity and responsible Europe, on input of Berlin and Paris, has ordered the temporary withdrawal until 30 September of all the ships of the mission, transforming in fact Sophia in a mission of only aerial patrol. A serious decision also this, that - as emphasized from the same minister of the defense Elizabeth Thirty - has left free field to the rescues DIY operated from you from the private ships of the NGOs and to the traffic of weapons towards Libya, in violation of the embargo, just that embargo that the Sophia mission had the mandate to counter. Italy, therefore, once again, is left alone by Europe in the central Mediterranean, where at this moment continues to operate the national safe sea mission of our Navy, with six ships, five aircraft and over 700 men. Responsiblely Italy has decided to upgrade the aircraft of the Sophia mission, adding to the two reconnaissance drones Predator already operating an advanced patrol aircraft, the P72-A of the Air Force. We hope that after the summer, when it will be time to discuss again at European level the fate of the mission Eunavfor Med Sophia, this new European Union, also in the light of the worsening situation in Libya and an increasing humanitarian risk, will demonstrate that it is able to put aside national selfishness and accept the modification of the rules of the naval mission, so that it can be restarted on the basis of a fair sharing of responsibilities. I repeat: a fair sharing of responsibilities. I am sure that this Government will not fail to act in all appropriate forums to achieve this goal. 18.38 (Following Woman). Finally, I would like to say goodbye to our Minister, Mr Trenta, and I would like to borrow the words of the Minister himself. I would add that international missions for us are an indispensable tool to contribute to the peace and stabilisation of areas around Italy, because through the missions, bringing peace and stabilisation, we can bring peace and security to our country as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u59	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u60	Mr President, the Members of the Forza Italia Group who have spoken in this debate have already reaffirmed our traditional position in favour of international missions, regardless of our position in the majority or the opposition. So I do not need to repeat what has been said. However, I would like to take the opportunity of this intervention to underline the profound discomfort that our Armed Forces are experiencing and the confusion that has arisen in these hours in the Mediterranean area, a theme also connected to international missions, which should have, in addition to the aim of bringing peace, also that of putting order in the Mediterranean area, which is the one of the most direct reflection on Italian life. I would also like to point out, on this occasion, the protest continues that the bodies representing the Armed Forces (the Cocers) express with various notes. Today there was the last one on the part of the Army, which complains about legal problems in which the army's petty officers are left, abandoned by the government. Moreover, the Government considered to meet the representatives of the Cocers only once during a year of his term of office, with the President of the Count Council; this was forty-eight hours before the vote for the European elections, in an attempt to capture benevolentiae and in a late fulfillment, which in fact did not see any follow-up. On that occasion the President of the Council himself undertook to renew the contract for the security and defence sector (contract expired and not renewed); he had engaged in many matters, but all this did not find any follow-up. When the discomfort of some leading exponent of the past of the Armed Forces took shape on the occasion of the parade of June 2 - we all read and heard of former Chiefs of Staff of the Armed Forces, who decided not to participate in the parade and I am among the politicians who participate and go to express in that way the solidarity and support to our Armed Forces: it is the feast of the Republic, not the feast of the Armed Forces, which is celebrated on November 4, however on June 2, with the parade military, it is also a feast dedicated to the Armed Forces, which are a skeleton of the Republic and the State and a historical expression of the nation - those generals and those admirals who did not participate, they also wanted to signal a malaise of the staff in service and of leaders who are in service, they do their duty, but assist in the chaos in the management of the Defense. Even Undersecretaries of the Defense Minister's party publicly contested the management of the defense. I do not know how their careers ended, whether they were submitted to the Rousseau platform, to the gratulate or not know what other strange rite, but dissensions were expressed in public. The vice-president of the Salvini Council has disputed in these days the events of various kinds. In a situation of total discomfort of the Armed Forces, without respect, without contract, without any real attention, with a management of the Defense that the same members of the Government contest, comes this with months of delay, as colleagues have already said, the motion for a resolution under consideration. There is no clarity on foreign policy lines, which we would like to support: what happens in Niger? What are we gonna do? It was said that it was necessary to contain sub-Saharan flows of immigration, also supporting, in a peaceful and constructive way, Governments of a more advanced and deeper area of Africa. We do not understand what our foreign policy is, we do not understand what happens, with untimely announcements and the chaos that is also found in the story of our presence in Afghanistan, with announcements then denied by the facts. Therefore, while voting for the resolution for our Armed Forces and for the deep sense of the historical continuity of these missions, we contest to the Government the management of defence and also some aspects of international politics, which leave absolutely to be desired. So let us take the opportunity of examining this resolution, and its agendas, which we wanted to bring to the House, because it could have been concluded in the Commission, in accordance with the Missions Act that was adopted in the previous parliamentary term. With the prescribed number of parliamentarians we wanted to bring the debate to the Chamber, to give it more evidence, to give more visibility to the shortcomings of the Government and to give more importance to the state of abandonment of our Armed Forces, which then abroad know how to assert themselves and are the pride of the nation and do so despite the inattention of the Government [[Applause from the FI-BP Group),]] and the irresponsibility with which many things are carried out: military industries abandoned to their destiny, decisions postponed, from the crisis of Piaggio to many others, that in a sector that engages civil personnel and industries that however work for the defence mean unemployment and problems of various kinds. So our judgment on the government's defence policy is similar to what many members of the government themselves have given. On the Sophia mission and its surroundings, too, I would like to point out that in the last parliamentary term, with my colleague, Mr Romani, we proposed in the Committee on Defence a survey of NGOs and we uncovered the limits and errors not only of NGOs, but also of certain missions, such as Sophia. It is true what a leading exponent of the Government said, that has brought thousands of illegal immigrants to Italy. We discussed, with all due respect of the case, with the then commander of the Coast Guard, Admiral Melone and also with Admiral Credendino, who led that operation, because in the end also at that stage the political directives were being revised - this was not the Government, but another - and it was necessary to move to another phase of the Sophia mission, in order to be able to counter the trafficking of people in Libya. It will be said that the situation in Libya is unstable, but so is our policy for Libya. It can be said that this is a problem in our home. We suffered the mistakes that were imposed by NATO also on center-right governments - let us remember - and in the end today we have this chaos. Today there is a non-government of these problems and even in these hours we are witnessing the debate on what the Navy must do and who controls the Navy and who controls the Coast Guard. There's a fight between ministers. The President of the Council had to intervene a few hours ago - remembering that it is up to him to coordinate the policies of the Government - to invite the Minister of Defence, the Minister of the Interior and others to a meeting, which if I am not mistaken will be held tomorrow. A total chaos, mocked by non-governmental organizations because the ports are closed, but not too much, colleagues, because the landings continue, and not only the ghosts, even the official ones, with the various characters; also parliamentarians - and we blame this fact - go on board the ships. And then comes the bizarre sentences so if one almost kills the Finance Guard is a "hero of the revolution"; we also solidarity with those soldiers who are not engaged in missions abroad but who risked their lives to defend a dock of a pier. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] All these things are connected; therefore, we would not want the yes to military missions, to the historical continuity of an Italian policy - we are one of the most committed countries in many contexts - to be considered a yes to a policy of defence of the Government that instead is not up to our Armed Forces, their quality, the competence also of their leaders. We have read only of brawls; even some ceremonies were postponed a few days ago because the establishment of the Chief of Staff of a given Armed Force still did not see the understanding of the Government. We are even going to postpone the settlements for the fight in the government. The armed forces don't deserve this. We oppose a vote by Parliament in favour of a government disaster to their detriment, and it is good that this remains with the acts of the Senate Assembly and also with all the public opinion that follows events; first of all with the representative bodies, with the associations that are being formed in view of legislative innovations, which will also have to find their own framework. We are with the Armed Forces; we are not with this Government and not least with that part of this Government which, having to govern the Armed Forces, knows only disorienting and mortifying. Forza Italia, therefore, says yes to the Armed Forces, but, with great force, says no to those who do not know how to give them a political address up to the value of our people in uniform. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u61	Colleagues, Senator Pharaoh's Presidency received a note of justification for the tones and expressions for which he was referred; this justification refers to the emphasis and tension of the intervention. The Presidency takes note of this note, allows Senator Pharaoh to conclude the speech, warning Senator Pharaoh, like all Members of this House, that this Presidency will obviously not tolerate any expression that may be considered offensive or excessive in the tones of the polemic vis, which, of course, can be part of the debate. Senator Pharaoh, you have the right to intervene to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u62	Mr President, of course, I have justified myself, but I believe that tension is legitimate since on the days we were on board the Sea-Watch we had to tolerate fake news from parliamentarians of the League who portrayed us on dinghies to feast. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have had to endure Minister Salvini and Parliamentary Giorgia Meloni who insulted us; even with a tweet, Minister Salvini also called for our arrest. We had to endure, on the quay in Lampedusa, militants of the League shouting that they would want the niggers on board to rape our wives. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That we had to endure. So, Mr President, honestly, even if we have a little bit of an intervention in this House, I think it is all there. The Vice Premier, then, made a blow and fought like a boxer whose hands were broken and hid them inside the gloves, shouting "arrest them!" and asking to process them. If a magistrate investigates him, with the complicity of the Movimento 5 Stars gets saved from parliamentary immunity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The others must be tried and arrested. Capitana is who does not run away from the trials; Salvini is simply what he calls himself "captain" and escapes from the processes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Patronage is fine when you say that Captain Carola Raccke has to be tried for rambling the Guard of Finance, it's not okay when you ask for a trial for him for kidnapping. Zuccaro is fine when he says of possible agreements between NGOs and boatmen, it is no longer good when, following the investigations, nothing emerges. The judiciary is only okay when you think like him. He can freely judge their work without having ever competed in the judiciary, the magistrates cannot do their job because they have not been candidates and have not taken the votes. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The dwarves, who are the Premier, Thirty, Tria, Di Maio, Bonafede, Toninelli, Moavero Milanesi, in addition to taking back years of opposition to the instruments of the caste (the parliamentary immunity, precisely) serve to make Captain America pass a member of the band Bassotti about the 49 million euros stolen from the Italians. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is the fairy tale.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u63	Senator Pharaoh, don't make me take your word for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u64	FARAONE (PD). Of the EUR 49 million we have spoken a thousand times, because I cannot talk about it I do not understand it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I think I explained it very well at the beginning of your speech, so finish. There is a wide range of tones of equal polemical force that you can use. FARAONE (PD). Of course, we will be paying attention from now on to all the tones that will be used in this House, including that of Senator Romeo just now. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm grateful. You're welcome. FARAONE (PD). I know, but I see that there is a lot of attention to our speeches in particular. The fairy tale is this: the sects - they were "nani" but the little man - had left him alone to fight against these dangerous gymnasiums (which were sturdy and landed thousands) and against the communists who, enemies of Italy, help them to arrive. Of course - he was Captain America and became Salvini - he turns out to be a coward when it comes to telling Orban why Europe is good for him when he has to take the Community funds, those that we also pay with the taxes of Italians, and it is no longer good when it comes to relocating a few dozen migrants in his country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Salvini fights with the countries of North Africa - zero results and zero collaboration - and judges ports safe places where bombs explode and women and children die. Always the two old dwarfs, Count and Moavero Milanesi, while Salvini on live Facebook said that either they took other European countries or would not have them landed (of course not calling anyone, because whoever called would never have responded to a person and a minister like Salvini, given its lack of credibility, and then because it is much more convenient for his propaganda to keep them at the port in Italy and not relocate them in Europe) in the course of the event of the Sea-Watch, they called and got the relocation and Salvini, instead of celebrating and using that result obtained by landing, as he had said, in two minutes, he did not answer the phone not to Senator Pharaoh, but to the foreign minister Moavero, making himself irreperible. He's the one who put the life of the financiers at risk. He's the one who put the lives of everyone on board the Sea-Watch at risk. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We thank the police for the work they have done, but we do not thank an interior minister who raises tension and creates a climate of confrontation, putting at risk the lives of all those who collaborate to save migrants and at the same time to maintain security in this country. In conclusion, he wants to be alone and does not want to solve any problems, dear Minister Thirty: he lives with that problem. And he also has the courage to say that his colleagues do not help him. Salvini, moreover, pushes with the Meloni: if he says "spare," she throws "bombing"; if he says "sequestrian" the ships, she says "foul" them; a +1 to every nonsense, which makes it even more ridiculous if possible. Maio instead says: "Let's sink them, but with sweetness", a -1 that makes him even more ridiculous (even in this case if possible). In conclusion, Mr President, the problem is that the seven dwarfs did not realize that, being there clinging to the chairs and allowing them all this, they were brought from 33% to 17% and he went from 17% to 33% and will make them dwarfs more and more, but the worst is that he will make the country increasingly divided and more and more bad. BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Talk about the subject! FARAONE (PD). Honestly, dwarfs and clowns don't make us laugh but cry and we'll be on the field to defeat them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u65	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u66	Mr President, we are going to ask for a split vote on the resolutions, because there is a specificity that concerns the Libyan mission, the patrol boats, and, as has been done in the House, we wish to be able to discuss it. We will not vote in favour of the mission to support the so-called Libyan Coast Guard: in these two years everything has changed radically and we think that it is a huge mistake what the Government is doing. We ask this Parliament to take a voice, as we are doing, and to say no, because we can no longer close our eyes, we can no longer ignore what is happening, how much the so-called Libyan Coast Guard has been stained in recent years and months of crimes documented by journalistic investigations, repeatedly denounced by the UN, by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), by the Council of Europe: continuing violations of human rights in detention centres, which are like Lager, where torture, rape and extortion are the norm. All this is documented, Madam Minister. Colleagues, you like me have seen hundreds of photos of women, men, minors with chains around their necks like beasts, cherished, with skinned skin, guns pointed to the temple and you cannot be silent for any reason, neither of cynicism nor of electoral calculation. UN Secretary-General Guterres spoke of crimes against humanity, the United Nations High Commissioner called cooperation between the European Union and the Libyan Coast Guard "disumana." We know, like everyone else, why: Libyan patrol boats intercept migrants in the central Mediterranean and bring them, or bring them back, back to the Libyan camps and this cannot and must not happen with Italian complicity. One of the leaders of the so-called Coast Guard is the notorious Milad, known for his business: smuggler of men and slaves up and down the Mediterranean, smuggler, sinker of migrant ships. On these crimes investigates the International Court of Justice of The Hague, according to which its militias would be addressed to one of the ships supplied by Italy to the so-called Libyan Coast Guard. That is why we cannot vote. Italy, in fact, is a great nation and this authority and credibility in the world comes first and foremost from our moral strength demonstrated by our rule of law, by our republican constitution. Our missions cannot in any way be a shield and alibi of what is happening. In Libya for months a bloody war has re-exploded, a military escalation out of control with more than 1,000 deaths and 90,000 displaced, a powder keg a few kilometers from us also due to the isolation, ineptitude, lack of weight of your government. It is a war that concerns us for the geopolitical balances, for the oil affair, for the management of immigration; of course, it is a war that calls us into question also for the enormity of the black page of our colonial past, which existed, unlike what the Undersecretary Di Stefano ignores. Who is evidently a person who ignores why he wrote a ridiculous post denying our past, demonstrating that even in the most dramatic events you can nest ridicule. It is therefore up to our democracy to redeem that black page of the past towards the whole African continent, never allowing foreign policy, for no reason of state, to allow directly or indirectly the denial of human rights. Libya is a country in war, in which camps thousands of people are tortured. It has never ratified international conventions and then it is not and cannot be a safe port, that is, a port in which to lead those who are saved at sea from shipwreck. The fact that Libya is not a safe port had to admit it even Minister Moavero Milanesi in what appears to be a self-denial. But if Tripoli is not a safe port, then it cannot manage a SAR zone, that is, search and rescue in the Mediterranean, nor can we continue to procure to the Libyans our migration policy, a piece of our foreign policy. A few days ago, when the Sea-Watch was blocked off Lampedusa by the ordinances of ministers Toninelli, Salvini and Trenta, Minister Salvini and the ineffable Undersecretary Di Stefano shouted shamefully: "Bring them to Libya", inciting - yes - the violation of all laws, in violation of the categorical duty of the safe harbour. For seventeen days the Italian Government has failed to assist the shipwrecked. Holy words of the mayor of Lampedusa: "I am on the side of the law of the sea (...) at sea there is the rule that we must save those in difficulty. Nor can it be thought that anyone who saves can or should ask for a I add that this must be the law of men. Italy is a great country that, after the ecatombe of October 2013, started operation Mare nostrum, saving more than 150,000 lives and we will never stop, nor will the whole world, to thank our military, our Navy. It has been said that that operation and those that followed have saved the honour of Europe, while your Government muddles the honour of Italy, leaving in the midst of the sea a few dozen people to build a fierce media circus, so as to make it believe that it is hard, when then the ghost barchinos land undisturbed at all hours, without any control and without any identification. A set-up to hide the failure of this government on the real problems of the country: (other than few landings) the work is not there, the economy is down, there are cuts in school and health care. With a violent campaign you want to impose the link between immigration and security, an unfounded link to date, until there has been a system of integration managed by the municipalities, with rights, duties and controls that you are dismantling, making illegal asylum seekers, at the mercy of the great criminal organizations and making us insecure. You create the fear on which you then make propaganda and, instead of trying to govern such a great and endemic phenomenon, you use it for an infamous battle of electoral calculation. Moreover, if you really wanted to govern this phenomenon, to force the European Union to deal with it, to modify the Treaty of Dublin which puts Italy in difficulty and which was signed by the governments of the League years ago, Minister Salvini would at least sometimes attend meetings of his colleagues at European level, rather than spending time doing Facebook directly, in a continuous work of misinformation. I am referring to that minister Salvini who chose NGOs as his perfect enemy, criminalizing them, feeding them to the hatred of the web. Mr Minister - first of all, I am addressing you - the NGOs must be thanked, because those who save lives are a hero, not a criminal and I am proud of the Members who boarded the Sea-Watch, because it is our job to fulfil the duty to save lives, always. It is an absolute value for those in this House who are political and it is the same battle for us to table an amendment so that they do not close the schools of the seismic crater or give income to the workers of Whirlpool in crisis. And then, President, no more jackaling on the part of those who vote on migrants and do not deal with earthquakes or industrial crises. President. - We call for the whole of Europe and the UN to intervene in Libya immediately, to stop the massacre. We are asking for European humanitarian corridors and if there are NGOs today it is because governments do not do their duty, because you are closing Sophia's operation. We call for the international community to enter the camps and close them. Those migrants, Madam Minister, the people who flee from wars, violence and climate change are us, it is our own humanity. We cannot forgive ourselves - I say this to this House so distracted even now - the death of so many in our sea, especially children who perhaps guard, as happened, on the bedside table or narrow in the pocket of the jacket, during the crossing, their school report card as the most precious thing, as an amulet, as a piece of the future, as our children would do. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u67	The debate is closed. I note that the following agendas have been submitted to the text of this document: G1, signed by Senator De Petris and other senators, G2, signed by Senator Causin and other senators, G3, signed by Senator Marcucci and other senators, and G4, signed by Senator Ciriani and other senators. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the Government representative to comment on the resolution already adopted by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u68	Mr President, I support the resolution. I also object to the four agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u69	The Minister for Defence, Elizabeth Thirty, may speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the international commitments of our Armed Forces for 2019 which have already seen, on 3 July, the approval by the House of Deputies of the act of direction relating to the extension of the current missions and the launch of the new mission in Tunisia, have been defined through a careful analysis of the geopolitical and geostrategic framework in which our military must operate, characterized by continuous evolutions that I do not hesitate to define, in some cases, convulsive. Let us think only of the recent deterioration of the general security conditions in Libya, which also requires constant monitoring of the possible repercussions on the national contingent; Afghanistan, the protagonist in recent months of a marked acceleration of the political dimension, with the direct negotiations between the Taliban and the United States, until a few months ago unthinkable, or the recent events in the Persian Gulf, related to the famous series of incidents in the vicinity of the Strait of Hormuz and the sudden increase of tension in an area that represents a crucial junction for the energy supply of the country. In articulating all the interventions of our Armed Forces, we have adopted an innovative approach that links the concrete needs of national security to the consolidation of the legitimate local institutions, combining stabilisation and development and enhancing the multilateral formats at our disposal, in order to ensure our military presence in the various theatres, concentrating forces and resources in the geographical areas of priority national strategic interest, with particular reference to the enlarged Mediterranean and Africa, operating both on a bilateral basis and within the international reference organisations (NATO, European Union and UN). The Mediterranean therefore represents the nerve space of our action and our strategic priority continues to be the peace and stabilisation of Libya. We therefore continue to support the Libyan institutions and civil society bilaterally with the bilateral mission of assistance and support in Libya (Miasit). In the same quadrant, the European Union mission Eunavfor Med Sophia saw its operation extended for six months, starting last March, with the temporary freezing of the use of naval structures. In this context, the UN Security Council has recently extended the arms embargo in the high seas, off the coast of Libya, for a further 12 months. This calls for the operation not only to continue, but also to have all the capacity to intervene, including the restoration of the naval component. The complex complex of naval interventions in the Mediterranean basin is completed with the mission of the NATO Sea guardian and the national aircraft device in the area of the Central Mediterranean (Safe Sea), which also carries out tasks of support to the Libyan Coast Guard, ensuring an adequate readiness for the safety of our contingent on the Libyan territory, as well as the protection of national interests: I mean the fishing activity and the presence of oil platforms. The Sahel deserves the same attention, the origin and transit of illicit flows directly affecting the stability of all North Africa and, in particular, Libya. In this area, in addition to the interventions we already have in place in the EU and UN contexts, our bilateral programme to support military and local security capabilities has been launched in Niger. In this regard, I regret to note that someone still does not know that the mission in Niger has been started for a long time, that the number of military that currently works in Niger is 106 units and that they are expected up to a maximum of about 250 units (now I do not remember the exact number) on the basis of the requests of the Country. In Corno d'Africa the national effort to synchronize and coordinate all ongoing initiatives in the area by European union capacity building and European union training mission, in Somalia, and Operation Atalanta continues. We are engaged, bilaterally, with the Italian training mission (Miadit Somalia), which operates in Djibouti and has so far trained nearly 4,000 units, including Somali policemen and policemen and gibutian gendarmes. We also pursue the objective of establishing, in our basis of Djibouti, a high-level training centre for the civil and military leadership of regional states which, relying on military, academic and entrepreneurial contributions, can develop a wide range of initiatives aimed not only at combating violent extremism, but also at preventing radicalisation, thanks to the social and economic development of populations at risk. For the implementation of this project, we would like to see the support of the authorities in Djibouti and regional organisations in the area (African Union and IGAD), but above all of the European Union. The Western Balkans also confirm their strategic centrality for Italy and in this context the role played by K-For remains essential, of which Italy has been in command continuously since 2013 and for which we intend to present a further national candidacy also for the next mandate, in which fully supported by the countries of the Region and the main NATO allies. The fight against international terrorism is another national strategic priority, which we realize also through participation in the anti-Isis coalition initiatives today focused on reconstruction activities. In this context, we have started a process of remodulating the capabilities and the consistency of our military contingent in Iraq thanks to the recovery of resources allowed by the withdrawal on 31 March of the device deployed to protect the Mosul dam. To complete this articulated stabilisation mechanism of the area, the Dicastery intends to ensure, throughout the year, at the request of our allies and Turkey, participation in the measures provided for by NATO Support to Turkey. We have therefore decided to extend the deployment of our missile battery, which at first we had planned to return to Italy at the end of July. I believe that it does not escape anyone that Turkey is also the NATO border (I always say this to clarify, in relation to the comments made). To conclude the analysis of interventions in the Middle East, we still believe that the role we play in Lebanon, both in the UN Unifil mission and bilaterally, thanks to the training mission of the Lebanese Armed Forces, is fundamental. Looking ahead to Afghanistan, both the ongoing direct talks between the United States and the Taliban, which in the future could create the conditions for a withdrawal from the country of the international contingent, and the developments in the political dialogue between Afghanistan and Afghanistan for peace, stand out. As I also said in my recent meeting with NATO's new Supreme Commander, it is essential, as a result of these negotiations, to safeguard the important progress made by Afghan society in recent years, both in the field of human rights and with regard to the renewed social and political role of women. Italy is still in the Herat area as part of the framework nation of the NATO Resolute support mission. While reaffirming our commitment, we intend to rebalance the total resources available in favour of the commitments that are most immediately attached to the interests and geographical areas of priority international interest, further reducing the number of our contingent and in any case not before the conclusion of the electoral process for the appointment of the new President, up to a maximum number of 700 units. Finally, with reference to our contribution to the strengthening of NATO's reinforced deterrent and defence mechanisms, we intend to continue to participate in the surveillance activities of the Alliance's air space in Romania in the second quarter and to strengthen the allied presence in the framework of the measures of reassurance both along the eastern border and for air surveillance to the South-East and naval to the South, the latter with the participation in NATO's naval standing forces for which we will ensure the command of the mine counter-measures component in the second half of 2019. The complex of all these devices illustrated will lead us in 2019 to deploy a maximum number of about 7,350 women and men, with an average presence during the year of about 6,300. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u71	We shall now proceed to the vote on document XXIV, No 9.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u74	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I will be very brief, because we have already seen a very interesting and comprehensive debate. I would like to sum up my speech, which I am speaking on behalf of the Autonomous Group, in the following way: governments are passing away, but Italy's international military missions, undertaken on the basis of commitments in multilateral bodies, must have the support of the whole of Parliament, as well as - hopefully - of all Italians. This is the position I have always taken, regardless of the positions of majority or opposition I have held in this House. I believe that there must be unanimous agreement, because it is unanimous support that the Italian people direct to our military engaged in difficult missions. First, Senator Romani recalled our dead: they are pages that we cannot forget; not only the 54 fallen in Afghanistan, but the fallen in many scenarios. I remember as one of the saddest pages of my institutional experience as President of the House the night we received the fallen of Nassirya with President Ciampi. I do not think we need any further comments. In these moments we have warned that Italy is a great country, also because it knows how to put aside political distinctions and shows that it favours the patriotic sense that one must have. Colleagues, here we are not evaluating the work of Minister Trenta, we are not evaluating the work of Minister Salvini. You know very well what our positions are regarding the work of the Government, especially in the management of extraordinary issues such as the issue of immigration and relations with Libya. We have reason to feel sorry for the many positions of the Government, but at the moment our vote is in favour of the missions because we feel the sense of the state that must lead us, in this House, to a vote as wide and as united as possible. That is the meaning of our commitment. Of course we believe that on fundamental issues such as foreign and defence policy it is essential to give priority to what unites us, rather than the many moments of distinction. On the subject of Libya, resolutions will be tabled on which a different vote can also be cast. Colleagues, I sincerely say that I appreciate what Senator Bonino said and what Senator Verducci said, because they have a merit in my eyes: consistency. Senator Bonino said the same thing a year ago, as did Senator Verducci: I did not share them and I did not share them at the time; today I have reason to share more of their concerns, because there is no doubt that the situation in Libya has deteriorated dramatically and there has been an inability to see it compared to internal issues. We filled our mouths with this Palermo conference, which was ridiculous compared to the outcome it had. So, of course, I also have concerns, but I have to say that the different assessments on this point do not weaken the substantial commitment to vote in favour of so many scenarios in which our military are engaged. Of course, the hope is that the government will also listen to the concerns of the opposition in the future, because they are imbued with a sense of state and good will and are certainly not in any way pretentious. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and the Senator Fedeli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u77	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, today's debate, which is also very lively and with very interesting ideas, is dealing with the fact that we are preparing once again, as appears from the Minister's reply itself, to discuss the extension of the missions in a very bureaucratic way, let me say this: because there are missions we continue to extend indefinitely, among other things with the paradox that we are extending them in the middle of the year (but this is part of an ancient tradition), not having a discussion on the scenarios that have sometimes changed a great deal. There are many missions within the resolutions and in the document brought to our attention by the Commission, which are not all the same, and our Group, forever in this House, has asked to be able to vote separately because they are not all the same. And I'll give you a few examples right away, absolutely determined. We, on some missions, share what the Minister has said. I am thinking of the commitment to Lebanon; I am making this example, but I could make a long list of missions that we believe should be extended. We should have focused on others and I quote one for all: Afghanistan. In this regard, someone has to explain why it has not been done and I also tell my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that if they take up their speeches in the previous five years they will notice that they were saying exactly the opposite of what they are going to vote for. After seventeen years of presence in Afghanistan, where, Minister, the situation has certainly not improved, indeed, in the last two or three years it has become very dangerous and where the United States has even begun to deal with the Taliban, in your opinion, is it possible to extend this mission as if nothing had happened? We do not agree and not just for consistency, but using the elements at our disposal to try to understand what happened, what the results were and how the situation is evolving. As we absolutely do not agree on a number of other missions. I think, for example, of the one in Niger. Yeah, the mission's off, but we think that's a dangerous mission. What are we doing? What's the job? In this case too, is the obsession with the fight against migratory flows? Or do we have to control ENI's interests in the Niger Delta? Is this about energy geopolitics? What are we talking about? Today we were faced with this debate: we, on this dangerous mission, do not agree. Then we arrive at the complex of interventions in Africa. On the memorandum with Libya - I say this here not only because we claim consistency - we have raised a conflict of attribution because - alas - that memorandum, then, did not even pass to the attention and approval of Parliament and we were well right to understand what was going to happen, because after what happened in 2011 the situation in Libya has never been stable, nor did it lead to stabilisation. We have consciously and increasingly contracted - and we contest it at the root - the dirty work to Libya, that of contrast in the worst forms. What else do we have to wait for after the dossiers that have come out and the statements by the UN and international bodies about what happened in those detention centres? But how do we do that? We have our republican constitution which is essentially based on the respect and inviolability of human rights, the result of the repudiation of fascism, Nazism and mass extermination, and we are complicit. This is what we are doing and vague words on corridors or not are not enough. Even more serious dossiers have come out about the role of the so-called Libyan Coast Guard, the former traffickers who continue, when it happens, to smuggle and all this we hide. And what does the Minister of the Interior do? The only objective is war against NGOs, only and only this. Not the contrast to what happens, break and close, therefore, the mission in Libya and the bilateral agreement for the Coast Guard, which is the subject of our specific agenda. The situation in Libya can no longer see as an accomplice a country like ours, which has not only Article 11, but also all other articles of the Constitution, which should be the law. We obey that law, not others, who make us accomplices to those who are real war criminals and against humanity. Or, what has become our country? Minister, we asked for the Navy to be awarded the Nobel Prize for all lives saved, with honor. Instead, today, what are we reduced to? On an international level we have reduced ourselves to flanking a country that not only has never ratified all international conventions, but constantly is not a safe port and this is peaceful: who continues to speak of safe port and has asserted inside the SAR the idea that that can be a safe port, from no one considered such, you can not really understand. There is a constant violation of human rights, with testimonies and dossiers, everything is at our disposal and before our eyes and one day we will not be able to say that we did not know. And as we know, we have - and I demand here what our parliamentarians have done - the right to disobey unjust laws and to obey, instead, the supreme law, which is to save human lives and fight against war criminals, this yes, which continue to operate within detention centres in Libya. Italy is a great country and - I repeat - the Navy, with Mare nostrum and other missions, played a fundamental role and it was the honor of our country, because it saved lives and for this reason we were respected. Today, however, we simply need to see a strategy of tension. This is the only policy that citizens see, in search of votes and only for propaganda purposes. On the back of people, a real strategy of tension is constantly on the ground, without wanting to address the issue of immigration at the root. What do you think, it's a passing phenomenon? Do you think that by doing the intervention in Niger and the agreements with Libya and the war criminals, you will eventually solve the problem? With what's happening? Or do you only need climate change when you're fake environmentalists? Don't you understand what they do and will do more and more? Do you know what environmental refugees are? And how do you think you can deal with them with some other rogue country? Is this the policy that we want to put on the ground, with some other rogue country? Mr President, this is not the case. If the motion for a split vote is not accepted, our vote on the resolution will be against. We hope that you will have a minimum of resistance and you can at least have the House voted on separate parts. This will allow us to vote proudly against the bilateral agreements in Libya and the other missions which, as I have just said, are considered by us absolutely not to be extendable. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u80	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I believe I can say that, historically, Brothers of Italy has always expressed its assent and its support, parliamentary and ideal, for military missions abroad. Today the missions are 38, in 27 countries, and engage over 7,000 military. I used the term "historically" because our vocation is to be a party of patriots and that is why we are proud of our tricolor. We respect and appreciate all our Armed Forces and believe deeply in the operational concepts of peacekeeping, post conflict reconstruction, stabilisation and resilience, of which our missions have always been and remain exemplary expression and make Italians authoritative in the eyes of the world. So, with respect to the measure, we say yes, but...... because you put us to the test and not today. Let's take a step back: it was January 30, 2019 when the Permanent Commissions 3rd and 4th approved the Act of Government No 69, concerning the financing of international missions for the period from October 1st to December 31st 2018. Attention: not only did we approve in retrospect what had just been concluded, but we kept our military engaged abroad without the necessary safeguards, in the absence of the decree. So there was a delay and, in the typical neighboring of late acts, you are overwhelmed by strategic choices and you have not entered in the merit. As we have not entered into the substance - I must say - even at the sittings of 14 May, always of the 3rd and 4th Commissions, and of 6 June, the one that then adopted the resolution that we are going to vote on today. On 6 June we decided to extend the Italian participation in international missions for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. Nor, in addition to these delays, has the meeting of 31 May, with the communications of the Ministers responsible for Foreign Affairs and Defence, been enlightening when they did not enter into the matter. In short, in short, delays on delays, while on the international geopolitical background some important things happened, which above all went to look very closely at our presence in the operating theatres, not least the situation of chaos in which Libya fell. This series of delays, ladies and gentlemen, which the Government is dragging on, puts us to the test, because it is not only delays and documents that arrive late in the Chambers, without respecting the terms prescribed by Law No 145 of 2016, but it is essentially and dramatically a violation of Parliament's dignity and prerogatives. Above all, in our opinion, this shows - I would like to say this - a lack of interest and little respect for our Armed Forces, committed to representing Italy in international missions. As the Brothers of Italy, we have repeatedly called - and it is in the records of the Commission - for an in-depth discussion in Parliament on the subject of international missions; we have done so not only to stigmatize this delay, but also for some limitations of government action and for the lack of important answers to important issues. I mention just a few: the Libyan crisis and our ongoing bilateral mission (Miasit), the growing hybrid threats, the terrorist threat posed by Daesh, which certainly goes far beyond the dissolution of the so-called state reality between Syria and Iraq, as well as the danger posed by the return of foreign fighters, the pressure in the Balkans on the eastern side and, more generally, the international terrorist threat and the very one linked to Islamic radicalisation. Again, between statements and denials in the press, we could not compare on the remodulation of the Italian contingent operating in Afghanistan and neither on the newly-born bilateral cooperation mission with Tunisia (if it had escaped), nor on the vexed question of the extension (first not and then yes and we do not know why) of the SAMP/T missile battery in Turkey. And we could continue with specific and explicit examples, as we might stress the importance of a careful parliamentary examination and comparison, which has not even been on the subject of investment in military equipment and technological research and on other aspects of national defence policy and our relations of European and non-European cooperation. I repeat, then: you are putting us to the test (so yes, but...) The obvious thing is that this majority has two different souls and opposing sensibilities and there is an internal political conflict on the subject of international missions and more generally on the role of defence. It is clear that, between contradictions and uncertainties, the scissors between defence and security are spreading, as is also evident that -in the contradiction between pacifist rhetoric and anti-militarist demagogy on the one hand and real or presumed decision-making on the other, with cuts in the middle - international missions lack a strategic vision of the whole. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That is the point we would have liked to have addressed in Parliament: a strategic political vision as a whole. Similarly, we lack a reading of our key role in the Euro-Atlantic alliance and a reading of our role as a stabilisation in the increasingly central space of the Mediterranean, what Braudel called the liquid continent. We are convinced - and I mean it passionately - that international missions are a productive investment in civil and military cooperation and a pact of honor. It is a pact of honor, which we defend for the sake of Homeland - which is the DNA of Brothers of Italy - and for our respect for the Armed Forces. Attention: this is the only reason why we are voting in favour of this resolution today, which extends 8 missions in Europe, 11 missions in Asia, 17 missions in Africa, and 5 actions to strengthen NATO's devices. I repeat: yes, but no. Attention above all to another aspect and I start to conclude: the resolution that we will vote commits the Government also in relation to the mission Eunavfor Med Sophia and asks that the rules be changed, so that Italy is not the only country of disembarkation of migrants. On this issue we have tabled an agenda, which summarises and contains two fundamental concepts and demands: the implementation of a naval blockade off the coast of Libya and a European military mission in agreement with the Libyan authorities. For us it is worth what President Giorgia Meloni said in recent days: The ships of the Navy of the European nations engaged in the Mediterranean should not serve to transport illegals, but to stop the immigration of mass. This is why, as Brothers of Italy, we continue to call for a naval blockade off the coast of Libya, to prevent boats from leaving. I conclude: we also have other proposals, a manifesto of proposals to address this issue; one thing we ask and we ask with pride and pride, while we vote 'Yes', but 'Yes': that the government and the majority, beyond military instruments, finally express a clear and courageous political line. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u83	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, international missions are perhaps the main instrument with which we implement our foreign and defence policy and the place where in Europe, within the United Nations, in NATO and also in bilateral relations, we build our international relations. It is surprising, then, that it is almost as if it were a bureaucratic and late fulfillment. I went to see again the shorthand report of when, at the end of the last parliamentary term, international missions were approved, and above all the MPs of the Movimento 5 Star Group, but also those of the League, complained that it was possible to discuss such an important measure three weeks after the deadline within which it had to be approved. Well, more than six months have passed this year since we were supposed to approve that measure. And do we have to attend the lecture of the President of the League telling us about the divisions of the Democratic Party? [[Applause from the PD Group]] He was concerned about the fact that this measure was not approved for six months: we left our military without political cover. He dealt with the divisions between the Foreign, Defence and Interior Ministers, who are the three main Ministers on the game and who - one week yes and the other too - issue conflicting interviews on the main war theaters: from Afghanistan's withdrawal to the future of its presence in Libya. [[Applause from the PD Group]] International missions are not a derby to be measured if we are with the military or against the military, because otherwise this derby, unfortunately, would have lost it, in the past, the military, because I remember that the League abstained and the Movimento 5 Stars voted against the same things that are written in this almost photocopy measure. [[Applause from the PD Group]] So, let's save the lectures, President Romeo. On international missions we measure the coherence of a party on the fundamental choices inherent in stability and security in our country. This means thinking about missions in the Balkans, the Near East and the Mediterranean, understanding what did not work and what worked. The debate, on the other hand, has only been characterized - I must say, unfortunately - especially by the League, by a dialectic made of vanguard tones and we have not talked about what our country needs: if, in the missions in the Balkans, the military component still has to be prevalent or if we have to move more on a component of institution building, of aid to the construction of security forces and police. The same applies to the most important issues which, for example, concern our presence in Iraq rather than Afghanistan. Here, on these points the passage of international missions must be important to understand our country system, the main institutions, what they think of our presence there. Senator Romani tried to say that earlier in his speech. In the light of a radical change in the foreign policy of the United States, of progress, from the Taliban's point of view, on the ground of military confrontation, new things are happening: a negotiation has started in Doha between the United States and the Taliban, something that was previously unthinkable and on which our Government had already begun to reason. What do we do? Do we keep everything the way we used to or do we try to reason in terms of the presence of our military? If you care about our military you have to think about these issues. The same is true of Lebanon. I would like to say a few words - and I will close it - about who loves the military or not: the Minister of the Interior should be careful when he goes to some theaters; on his last visit to Lebanon, for example, the phrases on Hezbollah could have saved them. [[Applause from the PD Group]] When he goes to these places as Minister of the Interior he must know that he represents the country, he is not the leader of the League, who can afford jokes from sports bars. We would like to do this: we would like to reason on the future of the presence of our military in the light of the changes that have taken place. In Iraq, ours were mainly in Mosul, in defense of the dam, now on the border between Syria and Iraq; also there the conditions have changed: Daesh was fortunately defeated, although not definitively: there is the theme of the return of foreign fighters. Even in the light of the choices of the American foreign policy of a possible withdrawal, what does Italy do? How does it relate within NATO? As I said, reasoning on international missions means reasoning in terms of stability and security, but also of international order vision. Here, too, let us be careful: sometimes we give the idea of disbanding, because being inside NATO means joining not only a military alliance, but a set of values that characterizes us and also means trying to exercise cultural hegemony; that is why we, alongside military missions, have always - as the former Minister Pinotti might say - flanked instruments of development cooperation. These are fundamental, because we try to bring a different idea also of democracy, without exporting it in tip of bayonets, but investing in operations of institution building, capacity building: we help them to build the police forces, we help them to build the Constitutions, we go to do humanitarian mine clearance. This part of cooperation has been reduced. The report by Openpolis and Oxfam, which is very interesting, unfortunately tells us - I say this to Deputy Minister Del Re, who is very attentive to these issues - that we have reduced the funds on development cooperation: this has decreased by 35% in the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, where we say that we want to help them at home. Then it is just an electoral campaign slogan, it is not a political action that could be done. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Military missions and development cooperation go hand in hand, because they are two essential components. Libya is the other point on which we clearly disagree. On the overall layout of the missions, we are willing to vote in favour; we would like to be able to do so in separate parts, in order to have the opportunity to explain very clearly - as Senator Verducci has already done - what we think of the Libyan Coast Guard's mission. But let me say three things about Libya, to explain also the reason for our agenda, which explains the position of the Democratic Party, which is a united position, supported by all, without the pressure of the President of the League Group. We record a disengagement in the central Mediterranean. Safe sea is an operation intended to combat, in some way, the trafficking of human beings, but also together to save human lives, because we do not let a person die in the central Mediterranean, the dignity of the person comes first of all. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Well, that device has been withdrawn and a blank delegation has been given to the Libyan Coast Guard, and today we are not able to know how those patrol boats are being used, whether international standards and embargo rules are being respected. Minister Trenta has just mentioned the rules on the embargo and we are not able to know today whether or not those patrol boats have been rearmed. We have given him unarmed but today we cannot be sure that those motor vehicles are used correctly. The same applies to Eunavfor Med (Sophia mission). Even with contempt for ridicule, we managed to build a position in Europe and for the first time we created a naval operation without ships: congratulations, an incredible precedent from this point of view! We must be able to regain control of the central Mediterranean, doing so by means of the Navy, by our means, by our Coast Guard, by control of a strategic area for us, because it is the best way to guarantee the stability and security of that theatre. We do so in the wake of an agreement made by Gentiloni Silveri with al-Sarraj, who gave cover to international organizations, who for the first time entered the Libyan camps and allowed 40,000 people to return to their home and not to remain in camps where human rights are not respected. This was a success of our country, as well as the humanitarian corridors: these are the things that PD did, not the divisions that Romeo used to tell about. [[Applause from the PD Group]] With humanitarian corridors, 1,000 people in the last year have been rescued, thanks to their relationship with the episcopal confessions, with the evangelicals. All this thanks to the work done by the previous government. We would like this part to be carried forward, because muscle performances in the Mediterranean will bring you some extra votes, but they do not solve the problems of the stabilisation of Libya, where there is to be, you have to be there, you have to be present in international missions and on the side of international organizations, which are doing important work. For this reason, we will vote for international missions, but we will not participate in the vote on a mission that does not protect human rights, does not guarantee the protection of human rights and does not guarantee the security of our country. That is where we must insist: to return to the central Mediterranean. It is the only way to ensure that our foreign policy is consistent. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u86	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we are called upon to express ourselves on matters of primary importance to our country, such as international missions and cooperation. International missions and cooperation are those means of safeguarding human rights which are subject to and guaranteed by the international structure within which they belong. The theatre of intervention of our armed forces concerns three macro-areas: Asia, Africa and Europe, of course according to different gradations, directly proportional to the danger situation in which those territories are placed. Our Atlantic geopolitical location makes us absolutely consistent with our past and guarantees the uniformity of our actions with the main logistic-military structures of the West. At the same time, our Mediterranean vocation calls us to a duty that our country, our Peninsula, cannot abjure because it is motivated and imposed on us by the same geography: the countries that overlook the Mediterranean must see in Italy a leading contact person on which to count and without which the same political-economic definition of Mediterranean unity is lacking. These two main features of our policy of intervention, far from being in opposition or in contradiction between them, find in each other their raison d'être. First of all, before we examine what motivates us, I would like to remind you of the efforts made by our men and women in uniform against the advance of the Islamic State of Daesh. Many stakeholders have contributed to the fall of that global danger, the child of a culture of death contrary to all freedoms, which we call ISIS, and among them, in the international coalition against the terrorist threat of the Daesh, it is good to remember our men. For 2019 we expect a participation of 1,100 units, 305 land vehicles and 12 air vehicles. All in all, these numbers are lower than in the previous year, as well as the authorisation of expenditure on this mission has been diminished by the fact that from the territorial point of view the Islamic State has failed and a path of peace has begun for those territories martyred by years of barbarism; a path from which, however, we cannot back down, both for ethical reasons, and for national interest. In fact, the presence on the territory means being able to stem possible returns of flame that in the medium term have as their objective Europe, in an area historically susceptible to great upheavals and from which, often, the messengers of death head to the West to avenge the defeats suffered. Being there offers us a great opportunity to keep control of the movements of cells and terrorist groups that we cannot fail to observe in order to protect our safety and that of our Western partners. In Asia we are not limited to efforts against Daesh, but we participate in equally important missions, among which the most demanding in terms of assigned forces is the United Nations interim force in Lebanon (Unifil) where, since August 2018, they operate under our general almost 10,500 military from 42 countries. This is an absolutely primary commitment to a region that has been experiencing an absolutely difficult political and social situation for decades: Amnesty International has on several occasions certified systematic violations of human rights, to the detriment of both Syrian refugees and ethnic and gender minorities. The international cooperation and the presence on the spot of quotas that we know how to propose, not as a force of employment, but as a support for the smooth democratic process, is a commitment to which the international community has voted and to which we are fulfilling with a great sense of responsibility. While in Asia the guidelines that follow our international missions are all under the aegis of Atlanticism, in Europe, which after Asia is the second continent in terms of the number of our men engaged in international missions, the Mediterranean vocation of Italy also clearly emerges. This once again enables us to see without rhetoric that, precisely because Italy is the State of values and defender of rights, the Mediterranean cannot but be considered Europe. Similarly, it is no coincidence that the two most important missions of the European scenario are respectively a NATO mission in the Balkans and a European Union mission in the Central Mediterranean. The European body demonstrates that it is able to take the lead in the planning of international interventions to the benefit of its neighbours and its internal security. It is a pity that most of the time Europe has failed to pursue these objectives without taking the hegemonic claims of some States to the detriment of others. Once again we witness the failure of a model that, in order to be saved, must be re-discussed without triumphalism. The African continent, then, is for us a natural theatre of intervention. Once again it is no coincidence that the largest Italian presence is in the bilateral mission of assistance and support in Libya, a commitment that we have also made in Niger. In short, the continuity with our strategic structures is fully guaranteed, for the renewals as well as for the only new mission that begins in 2019, the bilateral one in Tunisia. Libya and Tunisia are two critical points of the Mediterranean chessboard and, today more than ever, there is a need for cooperation and bilateral missions in the countries that face the eastern Mediterranean, because we are witnessing moments of difficulties of the internal democratic holding in some and critical situations in others. From a regulatory point of view, international missions rest in a framework, both within our country and outside and over-ordered to it, much wider than the journalistic dynamics of open ports and closed ports. To bring everything back to it, as has been done in the debate over the past few weeks and as has also been the case here today, is an unacceptable way of propaganda against the government, without taking into account that we are talking about strategic perspectives, which put the lives of our men and women in uniform at stake. But we are not surprised, Mr President, that the life of the military is of little interest to a party whose exponents were on the Sea-Watch, when it literally rammed a yellow flame motorcade. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] We are not surprised, nor are the Italians surprised, who are now observing the disillusionment of certain Members of Parliament who take their leave - perhaps because they have not reduced their salary - and who skip the work of this House to board the NGOs' ships. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Senator Pharaoh's comments.]] Dear colleague Pharaoh, the reference is precisely for you. BITI (PD). What are you talking about? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pucciarelli, without prejudice to the critical possibility, has made an illusion that is not inherent, so don't force me to call her back. That applies to you as it does to your other colleagues. Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). It is not a criticism, it is an observation of the facts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please finish your speech. GIARRUSSO (M5S). What a shame! Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). This is not an offense, but a statement of what happened last week, Mr President. [[Comments from Senators Pharaoh and Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u87	You know exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u88	I invite you to conclude, Senator. Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Too bad they had nothing to do with Germany, which sent migrants back to Italy often drugged, and that nothing had to protest against France, that sends them back to us in the vans as if they were parcel mail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Croatti.]] Can these politicians treat our foreign policy and our strategic arrangements impartially? I don't think so. In conclusion, Mr President, our international missions and our cooperation have an essential Atlantic position and a Mediterranean vocation that is the daughter of our history. This is a direction that is absolutely consistent with what we have been and still are. It is a work of protection of human rights and of national interest, which also requires us to increasingly respect the Mediterranean scene and the political situation within the countries, friends, which face it. For these reasons I announce the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Parliamentary Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, addressing a thought of thanksgiving, admiration and sense of pride to all our military engaged in the missions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] One thought goes to our heroes who in those missions lost their lives in the name of a Homeland that today, more than ever, pays homage to their memory. Thank you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u91	CAUSIN (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia strongly wanted the Senate Assembly to play a central role in this debate. In fact, the examination of the measure could also be exhausted in the Commission, however, both the Forza Italia Group and the Democratic Party - I would also say on a matter of honesty - wanted the debate on the resolution to take place in this House. It is an unpredictable fact, which fits in with the spirit of the implementation of the Framework Law on International Missions, a law that has completely changed the authorization of missions, which was approved in the wake of the last parliamentary term and which aims precisely to give the parliamentary body back its focus on everything that concerns the issue of spending authorisations, but also the content of international missions. It is no longer a debate that takes pictures of the ex-post financial situation because previously, when the missions were extended, a financial match of missions was authorised that were perhaps concluded for months, as happened also in some of these. The value of the debate on this resolution is linked to the fact that there is the possibility that Parliament will discuss the status of missions and, above all, the prospects of international missions by providing the Government, and also the Head of State, who is the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, with operational indications regarding possible emergency and complex frameworks that might emerge during the legislature. It is clear to us - and this is the reason why Forza Italia has always expressed itself in favour of international missions - that the Italian presence in these missions represents a mode (not the only one but a modality) through which our country defends its national interests, even when we intervene at 5.000, 6.000, 8.000 or 15.000 kilometers away. We are defending our national interests with our speeches. In this sense, Italy has played its part in recent years. It has done so by assisting NATO and the international community in the new challenge of countering Islamic terrorism, where they have been achieved on the ground, through intelligence and military intervention, of the results that have allowed to contain the Islamic State; we have done so by marking a stabilisation presence of those countries that have emerged or are emerging from conflicts that have lasted for years and that leave dramatic situations on the ground. The Italian model is unique and is appreciated by all international bodies. We have done our part, which is certainly not secondary, through a contribution of assistance to rebuild what I define the democratic and security infrastructures that are the minimum infrastructures necessary for the civil life of a country. We have done so in the States where we have played a role. Whenever NATO, the UN or the international community - when they could not be the two previous bodies - have asked us for a contribution, Italy has been there, it has answered yes without delay, we have done our part and we have done it in an excellent way thanks to the professionalism and human qualities of the women and men who represent our country in uniform. Support for international missions is not a rhetorical issue, it is not just a nationalist or sovereignist issue. It is not even a question of a subordinate role that, as someone says, Italy has historically compared to international bodies or to debts that we have with countries that have played a role, for example, in the liberation of our country from Nazi-Fascism. Italy is present because it is the capacity of the Italian Parliament to recognize how war and international instability in nearby and distant places can change the conditions of security, economic life and social life in our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That's why we're here. Our support for international missions and the Armed Forces stems from the awareness that we have also, and above all, decided to protect our individual security, the security of Europe and our national interests. I do not want to go into all the missions in an analytical way here; the rapporteurs and the people who have spoken in the debate have done so. However, the examination of the resolution can be an opportunity, in this parliamentary debate (and in part it has been) to reflect on the strategic perspectives of our engagement in the world, of our military engagement abroad. It is the resolution which, in some ways, copies a substantial commitment that has lasted for years in the scenarios in which we are present, and in fact represents the continuity of what has been in these years in terms of commitment to photograph but weakly what will be the scenarios of the years to come. What concerns Italy is a scenario that photographs us as alone, isolated and exposed to face the challenges that come from the southern shore of the Mediterranean, in particular from Libya, which is not a stable country, but is evolving towards a situation of chaos; from Tunisia, which is a stabilized country; and - I say this here, since it has not been mentioned - from Algeria, where a political-administrative cycle of a certain type has ended and in which a condition of great confusion reigns that we do not know how it will evolve. Minister, I cannot hide the concern about the ambitions contained in the report and about an attitude that the Government has had of shrinking investment. See that this is clear: on the one hand there is an international situation that is evolving towards greater complexity, and on the other hand there is a choice of the Government, from the point of view of the economic commitment that concerns the Armed Forces and international cooperation, of progressive contraction of spending. Minister, there are three points and I want to tell you precisely why this parliamentary debate must see us united and also capable of facing future challenges. The first is to understand how the cuts in the multi-annual budget will be reconciled with the progressive and greater needs linked to our need to intervene abroad. The second is the government's attitude towards calling for greater financial commitment within NATO, which is not just a budget number (2 per cent), but is linked to the United States' decision to progressively demobilise its commitment to Europe's defence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Thirdly, we would like to understand the attitude or the way in which we will coordinate our international missions with respect to a common European defence perspective which is so much announced but still very, very distant. I do not want to waste any more time in the debate, because it seems to me to have been very exhaustive. In declaring our vote in favour of the resolution on international missions, I would finally like to mention the personnel who have fallen or who have been wounded in the exercise of their duty and all the women and all the men who represent us every day and represent Italy in the most dangerous and delicate scenarios of the Planet. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u94	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this long debate on the resolution on our country's international missions. I would like to try to put back some of the issues that have been raised at some time - there has also been a few moments - but I have to say that basically several aspects have been addressed in the speeches of my fellow Members and also in the explanations of vote. Above all, I would start with a consideration that is important to me, and this is the following. The continuation of Italy's substantial military commitment abroad, which, as has already been said by several colleagues, concerns more than 7,000 men, 35 missions in 22 states on three continents, confirms an important thing, in my view: the centrality of Italy in the maintenance of peace and international security. And it's no small thing. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that this is a very special commitment which, not only humanly but also financially, is very costly and our allies must not underestimate it when they talk about the Italian contribution to the expenditure on defence and collective security. This contribution, within which - I would like to stress this - this year will increase by 15% the funds allocated to development cooperation initiatives, to testify to the importance attached to this fundamental and valuable instrument of international stabilisation, cannot be denied, I do not think it is being denied and I do not think it has been denied by anyone in this House. As my colleague Senator Ferrara has already mentioned, the Movimento 5 Stars has always asked for the international military commitments of our country to be concentrated in the most important theatres for Italy. If we speak of national interest, we must necessarily focus our attention on the Libyan scenario, an aspect on which many speeches have been made. The gravity of the situation in Tripolitania today is in the eyes of all, with the increasing involvement in the conflict of different countries (especially France, Egypt, Emirates, with Haftar, and especially Turkey and Qatar, with al-Sarraj) and with the progressive escalation of the fighting. Let us see, for example, the criminal bombardment - indeed it is - of the migrant centre and the number of deaths in the clashes that has now exceeded the quota of 1,000 people. I believe that, as many have pointed out, this situation involves two huge problems for our country. The first is the direct threat to our economic interests and the real risk of seeing us cut off from the political and economic games of Libya tomorrow, which must be avoided. The second is a humanitarian crisis, underlined practically by all the interventions, which, together with the obvious impossibility by now to consider Libya as a safe port, risks generating a flow of refugees that cannot be rejected at the starting point. Hence the need, in my view, to continue to strengthen Italy's presence and commitment in support of the legitimate Libyan authorities led by al-Sarraj, who, for the record, are successfully rejecting the offensive of General Haftar. This would allow Italy, in the first instance, to remain in the game in Libya with a leading role, contributing to the country's pacification and avoiding getting excited by European and Arab competitors. Secondly, it would allow Italy to continue to build that Libyan air force to which, when Libya returns to be a safe port and unified state entity, it will be up to Italy to monitor Libyan territorial waters, in order to counter human trafficking directed towards Europe. What is the point on this subject? Today the Libyan Coast Guard is still infiltrated by subjects related to drug traffickers - it is impossible to deny it - and is equipped with inadequate means and unqualified personnel. Here our intervention is important, because it is not yet able to do its job well and if we were to back out right now, as someone would like, when we started training personnel, providing adequate naval means and restoring aircraft surveillance means, the situation would never improve, I am sure. What was our goal and what should be our perspective? It was and remains a Libyan Coast Guard and a Libyan Navy that, in the near future, are able to intercept and rescue the boats operating in the Libyan Sar in a professional, reliable and autonomous way. Our goal of course was also to bring migrants rescued in Libyan waters to Libya, certainly not in the lagers under the bombs, which must be evacuated immediately, but in suitable and safe reception centres, managed by the United Nations, from which to organize voluntary returns not only to the countries of origin, but to all those European and those safe of the Mediterranean and Middle East Region, starting from those who today blow on the fire of the conflict (and I remembered them before). Achieving this goal I think would lead in a short time to empty the centers by draining the source of the business for the traffickers and thus stopping, as a second instance, the departures of the boats. Colleagues, the pacification of Libya is the number one priority of Italian foreign and defence policy. As I said months ago, if the calls for a ceasefire and diplomatic pressure were to continue to remain unheard, we would do well - I firmly believe - to seriously consider the possibility of a UN Blue Helmet peace mission before it is too late. Remaining in the African geopolitical quadrant, clearly strategic - as I said - for our country, of international missions oriented to the protection of the national interest, the Movimento 5 Stars considers very positive the start of the new national mission of military support in Tunisia, that it is a strategic partner for the security and stability of the North African Region and in particular for the fight against terrorism and the traffic of human beings. For the same reason, as Minister Trenta recalled and as other colleagues also recalled, I am pleased to record the full start of the national military support mission in Niger. Niger is the main crossroads of human trafficking from sub-Saharan West Africa, as well as recognized as an outpost and bulwark of the struggle against Daesh. Finally, the Italian mission of training the Nigerian security forces in the fight against human trafficking and terrorism becomes fully operational, from a few tens to almost 300 men, 160 land vehicles and 5 aircraft. In conclusion, I would also consider it very important to continue the Italian commitment to Somalia, where we participate in the European mission of training local security forces: it is a fundamental mission for the stabilisation of both Somalia and the Horn of Africa, which are obviously among the main areas of origin of migration to Europe. For these reasons and for those already described by all my colleagues in the Group, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u95	Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind the House that the agenda will be put to the vote after the vote on the resolution of the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a. I also warn that Senators Verducci, Bonino and De Petris have requested a separate vote on the same resolution. I invite them, in accordance with the order of request, to specify the request for a split vote before the Assembly gives its opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u96	Mr President, we call for the vote to be taken separately, with regard to the premise of the resolution, item 23 (-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u97	Mr President, I had been asking for days whether it was possible to vote separately, in particular on the last paragraph of document XXIV, No 9, which goes from the words 'in relation to the bilateral mission' to the words 'in embargo'. Mr Verducci also added point 23 and I have no objection to this request. If it is not accepted, I insist at least on the last paragraph because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not so much a kilo here. Each mission has its own specificity, its own organicity and its usefulness and, therefore, we do not understand why we have to vote for everything or nothing, a lot per kilo. Madam Minister, finally, if the news that all agencies are beating right now is true, I would say that perhaps it is better to file the skeleton of the Sophia mission and think of something else. All the press agencies are beating at this precise moment that al-Sarraj has freed 365 migrants from the bombing center of Tajoura without sending them anywhere else, so they will be expelled - apparently - from the United Nations and the Sarraj Government. Where they go they do not know; you can imagine it and you can also imagine - I cannot tell you this - if this is only a first step compared to the threat that this ally had made to us and, that is, to send all those present in the state centers in our countries or if it is a one-off case. In any case, I think it is part of a more comprehensive package and it is all the more urgent to remove this empty, ancient and obsolete skeleton from the Sophia mission and to think frankly about what we want to do, including integration into our country. We're not getting rid of this so easily. Please - everyone will then vote as they please - but do not force us to vote on the whole package. It doesn't really make sense. Each mission has its own specificity, its own problematicity, and I have not been alone in this House in these hours to express all the concerns regarding the operation of the Libyan motor vehicle, Sophia or anything else. I've heard them from various quarters. I think it is right that you, who will then vote differently, support at least the proposal that everyone should take responsibility for these missions. It's not that much a kilo. These missions are different from each other. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I have understood correctly, you are asking first of all what Senator Verducci has already asked and, subordinately, to separate the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u98	Mr President, we are asking for a separate vote on points 8, 9, 10, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28 and 29. As far as the final arrangement is concerned, we would like to vote separately on the two points and, therefore, apart from the last paragraph of the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u99	Pursuant to Rule 102 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal to vote on the document separately. It's not approved. Mr ASTORRE (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agenda G1 is not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2, tabled by Senator Causin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4, presented by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u101	I call on my fellow Members to leave the Chamber as loudly as possible so that we can complete our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u102	You have the floor, Senator. MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I am sorry to speak at a time when this House is not concentrating, because it could be useful for all colleagues who, like me, are receiving some sort of mail-bombing from young doctors who are looking for an outlet for specialization schools these days. Each year, in fact - it is a given - more medical students are enrolled than the system of scholarships can dispose of. To date, after seven years of study (six years plus a year for the state exam), only one in three doctors has the possibility to continue their post-graduate career. In particular - and this is the reason behind the mail-bombing of these days - this year more than 12,000 doctors have not had the opportunity to continue their training. This mechanism, which is called a training funnel, leads to the accumulation, between one year and another, of young doctors in a limbo place between graduation and specialization, basically cutting them off from the world of work. These young doctors retry the competition in the following years, increasing progressively, from year to year, the number of candidates and, with the grants currently made available, those excluded from specialized training. What happened? Now, what happened? On June 26, Minister Bussetti published on his Facebook page a post, in which he excitedly declared that he had increased the posts to the entrance tests for the faculty of medicine and surgery, having demonstrated once again that he did not have clear what the problem is: it is not access to medicine, but access to specializations. So Minister Bussetti should have increased, along with Minister Grillo, the specialization grants and not the places for medicine and surgery. So now the problem gets even worse. I would add that training a doctor for the State is a considerable economic investment; many of our young people, after completing the degree course go abroad, because here they know very well that they can not find the space in the specialization courses: they emigrate 1,500 each year and this has a cost for our country of over 225 million euros. Now I ask myself, and I ask my colleagues who have left the Chamber at this time, what they intend to do: whether we all join together for strong action, gathering the demands of these young people, these doctors, trying to build a path collectively, or if passively everyone else does not realize that the system is in collapse. However, at the collapse there is not only a health system, but there is also the future of many good and prepared boys. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u105	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak today in order to bring to the attention of this House some recent events in my chosen territory, and more precisely in my city, Cremona, in Lombardy. These are worrying incidents, which I would call disconcerting, which concern our young people and which unfortunately cannot be underestimated. The local and national chronicles have told of disturbing aspects of the story already renamed as the "Fight club" of Cremona. But here unfortunately there is no Tyler Durden; here were our boys and, instead of talking about literature, we talk about real events, that took place in the squares of the city and that led to an operation of the Carabinieri with seven arrests. The chronicles tell about young boys, almost all underage, who met on social networks to fight, to trigger fights and to target other young people like them, and then, finished these beautiful adventures, publish everything on Instagram or Facebook. So let's talk about free violence, unmotivated and senseless, just to take some more likes on social media; all this for me is absurd. As I have already had the opportunity to say, as a parent even before I am a senator of the Republic, I am shocked by these gestures and I think that each of us is after reading the news. It is unacceptable that we can even conceive of these things and it is even less tolerable for them to take place on our territory. This is not the fun we want for our children; at least I do not teach this to my children and I would not want anyone else to teach this to their children. Unfortunately, this is the reality of the day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So I thank the Carabinieri, I thank the police and the authorities, who have done an excellent job, and I hope that soon we will shed light on this bad story and that justice will take its course, also to protect security, first of all of our children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u108	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech starts from a fundamental consideration: one of the pillars of our democratic state is mutual respect for its role in the institutions; not to go beyond that subtle line that marks the boundary between its own and the specific competences is the basis of democratic balances. What happened in the municipalities of the Neapolitan hinterland Acerra and Casoria towards the spokesmen of the Movimento 5 Stars Carmela Auriemma and Elena Vignati in my opinion is very serious. The councilwoman Auriemma has been sued for having highlighted situations of incompatibility between the role held by the municipal secretary and the managerial tasks entrusted to him by the mayor. I would like to remind you that the single text of the local authorities (TUEL), for this case provides that the management delegations can be entrusted to the municipal secretary only temporarily and only if in the organic plan of the municipality there are no other managers, but in the Municipality of Acerra there are seven executives. This condition, which was only to be temporary, lasted over time, thus generating a condition of fact of incompatibility: at the same time, it cannot be controlled and controlled. The case of the Councilwoman Vignati, in the Municipality of Casoria, north of Naples, to the administrative past of 26 May has of the incredible. It was entrusted with the transport of election reports to the firm of a coalition candidate who was then successful. In the middle of the sections the minutes were altered, with the insertion of sheets without stamp of union, nor signatures of the members of the seat. At the request for verification of these acts, the institutions erected insurmountable walls, replying on the merits of addressing the TAR. The lack of clarity on the part of the electoral commission about the alleged anomalies during the final municipal elections de facto denies transparency in public activity, thereby generating mistrust and separation from public affairs in the citizens. The institutions are the home of the citizens and their transparency is in serious danger, due to the presence in it of unclear characters who use it for their use and consumption. Representatives of the State and the relevant structures must intensify and ensure compliance with the democratic rules enshrined in the Constitution. I address my personal solidarity and the 5 Star Movimento Group of the Senate to Councillor Carmela and Elena and I invite you to continue to defend the core principles of democracy: legality and transparency. A new wind is blowing: you are not alone, the citizens and institutions are with you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u111	ORTOLANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about the phenomenon that occurred last Wednesday, six days ago, on Stromboli, when in the afternoon, fifteen minutes apart, there were two very powerful explosions, not forewarned. The population had not been notified and a boy died at 400 meters above sea level. We remember that guided excursions are carried out, up to 800 meters high, but the presence of the guide in these cases does not help anything. The phenomenon was considered one of the most powerful after the great eruption of 1930. We are leading you to underestimate the Stromboli, because we see a volcano of 800-900 meters, which emerges from the water. However, keep in mind that 2,000 meters of volcano continue under water. It is practically a volcano of the size of Etna and therefore is a large volcano, which we unfortunately neglect. Following the two explosions, the tidal chart on the island verified an abnormal oscillation of the sea of about 40 centimeters, which then continued, attenuating. Thirty minutes later there was an abnormal movement of the water at 135 kilometers away, in the area of Palinuro and Marina di Camerota: it took about thirty minutes of time. This phenomenon is not new, because in the eruption of 2002, in the area of Palinuro and Marina di Camerota came tidal waves that had 2 meters of run-up, that is, the wave entered the hinterland with waves of 2 meters of height. Keep in mind that it was winter then and therefore there was no one on the beach. This phenomenon has so far been neglected. We remember that in the last nine hundred years there have been 18 abnormal marine phenomena, in years in which the bathing tourism was still not widespread. I think we need to reflect: what has this phenomenon taught us? First of all that Stromboli is one of the most and best controlled volcanoes with the best available means. Nevertheless, no signal was taken to warn the population. So we have this problem: has something not worked or is it not possible for current monitoring systems to provide guidance? This is an important reflection because we take into account that we are already in the bathing season and several hundred tourists frequent the island. After the event, the island was placed in the first level of attention (before it was considered virtually risk-free). Another problem we need to consider is the tsunami risk. Italy has no law concerning this risk; interventions on the coast are free, there is no protection. Well, I believe that this phenomenon must also be addressed as soon as possible with an environmental teaching to show what are the signs that can be felt on the beaches at the time when such a phenomenon occurs. There is therefore a need for a great deal of teaching. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. ORTOLANI (M5S). I believe that together with the 2002 phenomenon, the one of six days ago represents a yellow card that nature has proposed to us: take into account that we run a risk against which we do not yet have any attention. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u114	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I take the floor to remind this House that on 20 November 2018, one of our co-operatives, Silvia Romano, was kidnapped in Kenya and that no news has been received since then. The initial optimism has gradually replaced the silence on the matter. During the first few weeks, it was thought of a terrorist kidnapping or a group of criminals who wanted a ransom; on this were concentrated Kenyan investigators, who in the days following the kidnapping had made several arrests. Today, however, this track seems to lose consistency in the face of new revelations broadcast by the television show "Le Iene". According to reports from several witnesses interviewed, Silvia, a few days before she was kidnapped, had reported to the authorities a priest who would be involved in acts of paedophilia. A circumstance, this, which emerges more than six months after the kidnapping of our cooperative, leaving very few doubts about the reasons for the seizure. Why did the Kenyan authorities not immediately inform our counterparts of the lodging of this complaint? Why did the Islamic groups follow the lead from the outset, instead of investigating also the complaint lodged? We'll probably never know. However, I would like to stress that, in the face of these new revelations, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs should ask the Kenyan authorities for further clarification. That is why I put a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have a duty to do everything in our power to get the release and close this matter as soon as possible. In conclusion, allow me to thank the boys and girls who are committed to cooperation, who help their neighbors in Italy or Africa. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that our country would be a better country if we had more "Silvie" than "Roman," because it is not only a question of solidarity, but of sensitivity towards the last, the disinherited, who does not give up. Mr President, I hope that our institutions will be more committed to the liberation of Silvia and I hope that this young woman will be able to return to Italy safely as soon as possible. I hope so as a Member of Parliament, as a father and as an Italian citizen. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u115	Thank you, Senator Ferrara. The Presidency joins its hope in hope and commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u118	CORBETTA (M5S). Mr President, it was on July 10, 1976, a hot summer day like so many, when an accident occurred in Brianza that would mark that territory forever. At 12:37 a.m., from the Icmesa plant in Meda, came out a toxic cloud containing at least 15 kilos of the most dangerous of dioxins. The cloud spread in a territory with 36,000 inhabitants, between Seveso, Meda, Cesano Maderno, Bovisio Masciago and Desio. The grass yellowed, the leaves fell, 3,300 dead animals, 80,000 killed later, 736 evacuated people; 41 families no longer returned to their home because they fell. Hundreds of adults and children are intoxicated. It was a tragedy that caught our country completely unprepared. That year, spontaneous abortions and birth defects greatly increased, as did liver disease and other health problems. Officially dioxin did not cause even one victim, yet the municipalities involved recorded an increase in mortality that someone pushed to calculate between 126 and 157 deaths, and this to limit us only to the effects in the short term. The contaminated materials, the earth, the rubble, the remains of the animals were buried in two large tanks specially built in zone A, the most affected, the only one that was reclaimed. Lands in areas B and R, where contamination was minor, were never reclaimed, testifying to the fact that at the time there was no real perception of the gravity of the event. A simple ban was put on the cultivation and consumption of agricultural and zootechnical products, but after ten years that ban was lifted. Thus began the process of collective removal of the worst environmental disaster that our country has ever known. In 1985 the Lombardy Region banned constructions and excavations in the contaminated area, but incredibly in 2009 the same Region lifted the ban to allow the passage of the Lombard Pedemontana highway. Yet, after forty-three years, dioxin is still there, present in the land well beyond the legal limits. On the very high toxicity of the substance today there is no doubt: it is carcinogenic, it damages fatty tissues, liver, heart and kidneys. The epidemiological studies confirmed a significant increase in cancers and other diseases in the disaster-exposed population. Only thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars in the last regional legislature has put itself concretely the theme of the reclamation of the land on which the Pedemontana should pass and also for the agricultural land there are finally new: for a few days we have a norm that requires the ASL to control the products of the contaminated land and protect the health, but meanwhile forty-three years have passed from the disaster of the Icmesa. Environmental legislation, starting from that incident, has made enormous strides around the world, but the lost time in protecting the environment and the health of the citizens of Brianza will never be able to recover it. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u121	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, on 28 June 2018, a year and a few days ago, a person was taken from his home by policemen and city police in uniform and armed, and was taken away against his will, in a place where, for the year that has passed in the meantime, he could not see any family member except one, twice a week, under the supervision of the people of the institute where he is located. She was forbidden to speak with this person in her mother tongue, and this family member, and in a year she was never able to speak with a magistrate or other person to whom she could express her position. Are you a dangerous terrorist? Is he a mobster? Does it belong to an organization that deals in human beings? No, she is a child who was eleven years old when she was kidnapped; today she is twelve and in the last two months, since her mother protested about this situation, she was also forbidden to see her mother. She was kept in total isolation, a 41-a. What's his fault? Of course none: teachers, instigated by the principal, reported that the child sometimes had clothes that sent bad smell and was absent - you think - twenty-seven days in the course of a year. An inspection of this child's mother's house found that there was no better precise dirt and even a certain mess; in fact the family was moving and so it is obvious that there was some chaos. I have put a question to the Minister of the Family, the Minister of Health and above all to the Minister of Justice, because all the procedures I have described are demonstrated by tabulas, by papers, and they are all contrary to the law. Unfortunately, however, no one moves, starting with the magistrate who authorized this monstrous procedure on behalf of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-130.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 10 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.56 p.m.
