ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1354, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Vitali to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u5	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: 'We are on the same page, Calimero', citing ancient television advertising. In fact, the decree-law under consideration has been approved by the Chamber of Deputies with numerous changes that govern thematic areas that are heterogeneous to each other. The omnibus effect of the text and the cumbersome nature of numerous articles of non-immediate application risk having a negative impact on the original objective that this decree-law wanted to achieve, i.e. to increase GDP, even by 0.1 percent. We are in fact faced with the usual postponement to implementing decrees of which we have lost track, nor has the Government resumed to respect the obligation to inform Parliament about the state of issuing the implementing decrees. The last time I counted the outstanding implementation decrees, I came to more than two hundred. We do not know today how much the implementing decrees that the Government must issue amount to. This is not the first time that we have pointed out that the heterogeneity of matters in a decree-law ends up impoverishing Parliament's legislative prerogatives, in fact abusing the urgent decree. The decision of the Constitutional Court No 22 of 2012 found the decree-law whose content is free of the constraint of homogeneity to be unlawful. We would deserve a prize for the obstinacy with which we try to bring you on the right path of law and you a double sanction for the repeated recurrence by which you bypass the constitutional rules. There are those who do not see the need of the Government to realize its own program and to make operational with immediateness some decisions, but, on the contrary, this requirement cannot prevail over the peculiar nature of the decree-law and the twists of this provision are already recognizable in its vague title, generic and such as not to understand the specific scope of its application. It is your custom to believe that the inclusion in the title of the term "urgent" is sufficient reason to make a decree-law possible, while, in violation of the Constitution, you have made the decree of urgency an ordinary way of lawmaking. In addition, you have violated the requirements of stability, certainty and simplification of legislation. It should also be considered that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly referred to the provisions aimed at speeding up the process of the circulation of knowledge and increasing the competitive capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in matters falling within the shared legislative competence of the regions. This being the case, the attraction to the centre of administrative functions through the call to subsidiarity requires that legislative intervention includes forms of loyal collaboration with the regions. Articles 28 and 29 of this provision disregard those provisions. To be clear, Article 28 provides for the introduction of simplifications for the definition of territorial pacts and area contracts, with the agreement in the State-Regions Conference rather than in the unified Conference, as well as in the hearing from several parties had been requested. Article 29, which concerns new zero-rate enterprises, smart starters and digital transformation, paragraph 3 requires the revision of incentives for business activities, without any involvement of local self-governments, to decrees of the Minister of Economic Development. Not to mention the articles from 1 to 22, which include several additional articles inserted by the Chamber of Deputies, which, while dealing with tax-related provisions, deal with different issues. Not only that, but following changes in the other branch of Parliament it is also difficult to find that the principle of necessity and urgency proper to the decree-law is satisfied. I do not want to examine all the articles, because this is the subject of the debate on the subject, but it is necessary to point out that important issues remain unresolved, such as the issue of Alitalia, contained in Article 37. In fact, beyond a generic authorisation for the MEF to enter the capital of the company, at the same time canceling the term for the repayment of the loan bridge of 900 million, of which 650 million covered with an increase on the electric bills, it is easy to imagine how this device will be considered State aid from the European Union. And what about Article 38, which was to contribute to the definitive closure of the administration of the Comune di Roma? Even here, in an unelegant and transparent way, with amendments inserted at first reading, only six cities have favoured themselves, to the detriment of all the others. Another violation is the one included in the sitting of 20 June in the Chamber of Deputies, where a much more important issue such as the so-called South amendment, which in fact took away the management of resources 2021-2027 from the Minister for the South and for cohesion, was merely drafting. Finally, we must definitely denounce the custom of transforming our bicameral order into a monocameral order. In fact, this majority, taking advantage of larger numbers in the Chamber of Deputies, presents there all the decree-laws, which arrive in the Senate with contingency times and which do not allow any serious examination, in violation of Article 70 of the Constitution. Ultimately, the customary contra legem by this legislator to produce decrees-laws in contrast to judgments of the Court, constitutional decrees and legislative provisions weakens the credibility of the legislative bodies, their components and the value of the force of the laws and of the Constitution. Finally, it raises doubts that a decree-law formally flawed may be issued and subsequently converted. For these reasons we insist on the preliminary constitutionality presented. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u8	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I was a little late when the explanation of the question for a preliminary ruling had already begun, and I am surprised that the Government is not present. We are discussing a bill and the government is absent. I'm sticking to your decision. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u9	I would like briefly to suspend the sitting while waiting to see whether or not the Government will be present in the Chamber. (The sitting was suspended at 16.16 a.m. and resumed at 16.17 a.m.) The government is present in the Chamber and we can proceed. I call Senator D'Alfonso to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u10	Mr President, I would not have shown any wonder if I had found the absence of the government, because one of the characteristics of the decree-law in question is that it reveals a form of hatred towards the Senate. I say this only to judge by the time that has been invested by the Chamber of Deputies, to which it has also been allowed to conduct a proper investigative activity: over sixty days, forty-five abundant days have been reserved to the Chamber of Deputies, while to the Senate of the Republic, materially, since the documentation came to us, I have counted, in terms of the appropriate time of work, roughly sixty hours. We are before the illustration of a preliminary question not only because it sometimes happens that oppositions resort to this instrument, but in this case there is really need to organize the expression of a pre-judgment in order to try to find the space of a judgment of merit. We are at a time when the Italian economic picture is characterized by the elements referred for example to Istat that, photographing reality, reveals us how the numbers of our real economy tell us aloud that the fiscal pressure has increased compared to last year, that in fact industrial productivity manifests difficulties, as well as the ability to place labor force; increase the unemployed, decrease the quantity of industrial electricity that is demanded and used, as well as the number of exceptional transports refer to industrial production; increase the number of hours of the Cassa Integrazione. Within this framework, the Government of the country, also bound by very promising contracts, certainly had to put in place a necessary and urgent measure capable of producing growth. At the level of the denomination we have a paper consistency that speaks of growth, but in fact the decree-law in question does not even have the characteristics to be conceived, on the level of the order, as decree-law. It has no capacity for effectiveness in the immediate time that we need, because it postpones its effects in the future, for its effectiveness gives rise to the demand for about 45 implementing measures and is in fact a decree-law bazaar, other than omnibus: inside it there is everything and the opposite of everything. We are indeed faced with the difficulty, even for the organs of verification and rereading, of judging as suitable and consistent the product of this decree-law for excessive heterogeneity. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 is relentless. Nevertheless, we go ahead and we point out that this decree growth only of name, within itself, for example, brings an objective recognition of mistakes made in the immediate past. Think, for example, of the budget law and the negation contained in that law with respect to the fundamental instruments of the real economy, when, that is, you have forgotten, stifling it, the instrument of super amortization. In the budget law you have cut him off as an instrument, now you are using him again. This does not mean that then the state machine, the order, the real economy know immediately to start again on the way because the tax and fiscal order needs to find peace, normal functioning, not this normative scramble, up and down, first demolish and then rebuild. It also happened with the institution of the so-called mini-Ires as it happened with regard to the patent box and other tools from the past that you wanted to bring to a kind of burial and then bring them back to life. What is the way to govern public affairs when this is done? In the decree-law at our examination, for example, try to address the issues of cities in financial distress, which are in foretold or broken and try to address the great capitular issue of Rome. The mistake is not the attention to Rome or other municipalities like Catania that come from this trouble, from this financial difficulty; it is the financial supply that is wrong. The resources cannot be removed from the innovative economy, from the competitive economy, from the 4.0 economy that Italy needs so much to overcome the international challenge, to use them to ensure that one city or the other can start again. Homogeneous products are needed for cities that have to play their part. Rome needs a special law, recovering the spirit that activated Legnini as undersecretary to the Ministry of Economy and Finance delegated to this, or even the work that he tried to set up Calenda, or even the one that stuttered the vice premier Di Maio when, for half an hour, he was interested in the themes of Rome. We need a law that facilitates its functioning as a capital city of the State, as happened in Berlin - where there is and works - or in Brussels, or in London. No resources are taken from vital sectors from the economy to try to buffer. Another gigantic mistake is what was done on Alitalia's big node. Here, too, a wrong initiative has been taken in terms of financial supply. The extraordinary momentary need is covered by the taxation of citizens in relation to electricity services and the mandatory burden, also for Europe, of the repayment of the bridge loan is exceeded. We need to find a suitable partner and we need to make a strategic choice for the future, not an extemporaneous and immediate choice. What is the soul of this decree-law? It seems the attempt of a student who does not want to study and who, in order to try to deceive, is buried in books and the only thing that can put in place is the application on the theoretical part of physical education. In fact, it's a deception. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a sort of toad that from the work of the Council of Ministers, adopted twice, goes to the competent committees of the House, then to the Assembly and doubles, so 50 articles become double. A lot of stuff introduced to the House, which is really the place of the normative confidence of this Government, doubles and also produces meaningless norms, ultronoe, such as the referral to the contradictory in the relationships between financial administration and taxpayer. This is an already acclaimed and peaceful fact, but the rule is rewritten in order to invite the adversarial in administrative terms. Moving forward, with respect to the fantasies of this decree-law, there is even a rule that states that, for the recovery of those who have given rise to off-balance-sheet debts in the regions, the off-balance-sheet debt could be recognised alternately in the Regional Council or in the Junta. However, the order establishes specific and precise competences, so it cannot be said that either it is done in one way or in the other; this is how we begin to demolish the order in its third partyhood, neutrality and fixed competence. This decree-law must therefore be re-examined. There is a company in Abruzzo that is called ICO, Corrugated Carton Industry: why do we not entrust this paper industry with the rereading of the decree-law in question, which in fact is a pile of papers that has no soul or ability to meet the needs of the economy in this period of time? That is why we are telling you to stop and ensure that the work of Parliament's auxiliary bodies, the Commissions, can produce meaning. We tried to correct him here in the Senate in front of the assembled commissions. We have also worked on agendas, which are not the wings of angels, but set thematic priorities and update the agenda. Ninety agendas were approved, revealing the inconsistency of the quality of the product worked in the decree-law. That is why we ask that the question be voted on and that we return to a substantive judgment on the product of this rule. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u11	Greeting on behalf of the Assembly Giovanni Dal Cero, mayor of the Municipality of Castelnuovo del Garda, and Marco Franzoni, mayor of the Municipality of Cerea, and a representation of the association Actively of Stornarella, in the province of Foggia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u12	I call Senator De Petris to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u13	Mr President, I would also like to address you and your sensitivity: I would try to reason with all my colleagues that the time when a question of constitutionality is being referred to can no longer be interpreted as a kind of tired ritual. Clearly, if we do not give the right weight to the very serious issues that we are putting before us, together with our previous colleagues, we still do not understand the serious situation we are in. Do I have to remember once again that it is no longer possible to continue to present, package and approve decree-laws in a continuous and repeated manner? These are crimes against the Constitution that continue to be perpetrated over time, and which become worse from time to time, while the Constitutional Court, as is well known, has sanctioned this behaviour several times. The violation is continuous and constant. Here we have indeed come to a sort of manifesto and a list of violations and crimes against the Constitution. Mr d'Alfonso spoke of a sort of hatred of the Senate; perhaps it is an ancient hatred, but it is obviously repeated here too. In fact, bicameralism is constantly being questioned. I heard colleagues, authoritative senators also of the majority, just yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the general discussion on the measure for reducing the number of Members, saying with conviction that the perfect bicameralism - I think Senator Grassi who is hyperconvinced (despite he is now busy with the computer) - is important, because it is a guarantee for good legislation. While we are here in constant and constant presence - because it is not the first time, but today it is done clearly - of a violation of bicameralism. In addition, I would like to remind you that the House has kept this decree-law for fifty-one days. Today is Wednesday and perhaps in a few hours we will vote for trust, but I would like to remind everyone that we have spent these hours in the Commission trying to make an assessment, to try to know all the elements contained in this decree-law. Furthermore, I would like to point out once again that there is necessity, urgency and homogeneity among the fundamental criteria for using the decree-law. This is instead a decree hyperomnibus. The decree-law under discussion was born with 51 original articles, but then in a chaotic way, with a confused discussion within the majority, with amendments on amendments by the rapporteurs, the House was created a monstrosity. We are in fact faced with a decree-law with 120 articles that arrives here in the Senate for our armored evaluation and approval. There's more and more. I repeat again: I still do not understand why we have to name the measures. You didn't invent it, but you keep repeating this very bad habit. I understand the anxiety of communication and propaganda, but to call this decree "growth" - other governments have already done so - when it contains a series of measures - some perhaps acceptable and just, others hyperdamaging - in which growth is absolutely marginal. So we continue to go on trying to put up patches, thinking of pushing without having a clear and precise idea of what is the strategic axis on which to try to start this country. That's because you're divided into everything. In this measure we have mini-Ires, Imu, Tasi, land income, VAT, dry coupon, e-invoicing, building value, energy efficiency. I could make a very long list. So as far as homogeneity is concerned, we're not really there. On this point too, how can you fail to understand that the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court has been absolutely clear? Do we want to talk about urgency? The provisions of Article 3d concerning leases cover all contracts concluded as from 1 January 2020. In addition, Article 3-e extends the regime for the review of INAIL tariffs from the year 2023. And this is the urgency? A mechanism for reducing premiums and contributions for compulsory insurance against accidents at work, which certainly is not a good thing with regard to INAIL. I can continue: Article 7- bis exempts from payment of the levy for indivisible services buildings constructed and intended for sale from 1 January 2022. It is therefore a list of rules that will then need implementing decrees, of which we will lose track. Many of these will come into force in a few years' time and I do not know if there will still be this parliamentary term. Indeed, the conditions of necessity and urgency laid down in Article 77 of the Constitution are systematically violated. Not to mention the fact that the measure is armored. The President will now tell us what wonderful work we have done. You will certainly not be able to accuse the opposition of preventing you from coming to this House with the rapporteurs. I believe that we have also been all too gentlemen and gentlemen in working in the Commission, because at other times there might have been different treatments. As I said, this is a set of rules whose effect, in the end, will be completely marginal. The nodes are very serious, and not only for indoor reasons, but also for outdoor reasons: we are faced with a macroeconomic framework that has lasted for a long time, particularly serious in Italy with regard to deflation and the devaluation of labour, on which these rules will certainly not produce effects. However, there are also very serious rules. Some are useless, some marginally useful, some very serious. I quote one for all, in Rule 24, and I address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. Do you remember the 2011 referendum on water advertising? The opposite is true: Article 24 deals with the Agency for the Development of Irrigation and Land Processing, on which Decree-Law No 201 of 2011, which initiated the liquidation, had already intervened. You turn it into a SpA and then you want to put your soul in peace by passing an amendment to the House that prohibits the sale of quotas to private individuals. You're making fun of us or you're making fun of yourself. Once again the transformation into SpA, and therefore into a private system, will be the precondition for allowing - and it has been seen what happened to the House with the funds for the Mezzogiorno - a very serious and dangerous operation: the privatization of the system of adduction, and therefore of sources and sources, to the South. Do you realize what gravity is? You have not even accepted agendas capable of mitigating the norm and giving you the opportunity to reconsider it, perhaps imagining a consortium of municipalities or a public company. Even those you didn't want to accept. We arrive in Rome Capital. Do you dare to call him saved Rome? What is saved for the renegotiatation of loans, including the additional ones deriving from the Irpef, with the highest rate paid by citizens resident in Rome, is used in the fund "save other municipalities." Instead of saving Rome, it is Rome that saves the Municipalities. Here again there is a fundamental institutional issue: but what country is it that does not know how to give a serious special legal status to its capital? Certainly I cannot be accused of favoritism towards the mayor Rays, but here there is a very serious institutional problem, which concerns the dignity, even constitutional, of a country with respect to its capital. Instead of tackling the problem once and for all seriously, you even use the save Rome to do an operation that will once again steal resources from our city. For all these reasons, I would ask my fellow senators not to proceed with the examination of draft law No 1354, for obvious and manifest inconstitutionality. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Nencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u14	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u17	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the previous Members have already made very clear the reasons for the unconstitutional nature of the decree-law in question. Let us put aside the ridiculous things, such as, for example, the fact that there are rules so urgent that they come into force in 2023. In order to be consistent with the autonomy process of the regions, there is a further process of centralization. However, the problem is more general. Yesterday the Leader of the League, in the discussion on the calendar of the intense activities, has explained to us that the reason why the Senate cannot discuss the decree-law in question - we are not discussing it - lies in the fact that the Regulations of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are different and the Rules of the Chamber makes that branch of Parliament can hold in question a decree-law for a long time. It is quite clear, at least from this point of view, that we can clearly take note of the situation. The problem lies not in the parliamentary regulations, but in the fact that between the two forces of majority, on any act, there is never an agreement; after that we use all the time to discuss within the majority and we get to a dramatic fact, expropriating the Senate - dear President of the Senate - the possibility of discussing. Mr President, you are fully aware that the House, the Commissions and our institution are also expropriated of the possibility of making a positive contribution to the Government. I therefore ask you to find the form to protect us more and to protect this House better. Otherwise there are no conditions for discussion: it happened for the budget and it happens for every measure. You do not agree on anything, colleagues in the majority: you have to discuss what goes to one and what goes to the other and in the end there is no time to do anything. This is the most serious thing. I just want to say two things about the substance of the provision. You're talking about growth, but there's no strategy. There are so many measures in this text, one alongside the other, many wrong and some useless, but there is no rag of strategy. We pay more taxes, and not only is there no growth and the year has not been so far beautiful, but Istat also says that for the next quarter we will be in difficulty and increases the productivity differential between us and the European countries (in negative for us). Do you have an idea? Do you have a proposal? Do you have an industrial policy that addresses the problems of the country? Is that what we need to talk about? Absolutely not. I want to conclude by putting a problem and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you can listen to me. In the Chamber of Deputies, a small amendment to Article 14 was adopted which extends tax relief to associations. I do not know whether you have done so knowingly or unknowingly, but it extends taxation - for example - to health funds. Attention: this is one of the most serious measures against the National Health System and against the principles of fairness and equality of access. With that article as a state we go to finance those who compete directly with the national health system, already in huge crisis. The health funds - please go to check: find the list at the Ministry of Health - for the four fifths are managed directly by the insurance companies. Can we say that they do not have a commercial effect? Please consider this point. Who has a heart the National Health System, in the face of the dramatic crisis that is going on, raise your voice; stop this wrong and dangerous choice of which you do not even have the courage to speak explicitly. The most negative and dangerous way to proceed with the privatization of health care is to do so without saying it; to do so by hiding the face. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very serious. If someone cares about our National Health System, stop this intervention perhaps through the vote on unconstitutionality. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and the Senators Di Marzio and Rojc.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u20	RICHETTI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the right day to talk about growth. President, all today's news about our country is about growth: the first was about tax growth. As never before, we increase the tax burden on the citizens and businesses of our country, with so many greetings to flat tax, excise duty, tax reduction and everything that was promised to this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is a second more dramatic news on the issues of growth: the growth of fatal accidents in this country. The President of INAIL today also denounces some of the contents of the measure under consideration. To put a title to a decree takes a moment; to make consequent reactions is more complex and the results are those that tell us today. The third news of today comes from the Court of Auditors: debt grows and its growth can cancel any benefit always brought by the miraculous measures concerning flat tax and tax reduction. There is only one news in contrast to the growth that tells of a tendency to decrease: it is that relative to the estimates of growth of the Country. It is true that they did Standard and Poor's and, therefore, part of this Parliament does not touch, but estimates of our country's growth are down. Mr President, I will make an explanation of vote on the preliminary ruling, since ours is of unconstitutionality, but also of coherence, decency, logic and reasonableness that this measure does not cross. I say this because on the unconstitutionality I would expect from the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Star solidarity in the battle that we are conducting, and not only about the abuse of the decree of urgency. That was very well explained by my colleague Teresa Bellanova in the Commission and I know that you are sensitive to the subject, because - let us be honest - you have climbed the roofs for much less five years ago. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You went up to the roofs for much less, when you were then reproaching us on the subject of urgency. Mr Errani recalled this: how does a measure that releases its effects in 2023 have reasons for urgency? How can we fail to grasp the theme of heterogeneity of matter, when in the same measure we talk about votive lamps in cemeteries, the commissioner for Valtellina, the Apulian aqueduct and the return of sportsmen to Italy? From 50 articles the measure comes to have more than 100. And yet, it's okay. It is all right even when an element that could have the characteristics of exceptionality, such as the provision on Rome, becomes a measure ergo omnes for Municipalities in failure and in foreboding, losing the only reasons for the extraordinaryness of the provision. I said that our objection is not only on the issue of constitutionality, but it is within a matter of coherence that lies in the need for a legislative system. We no longer allow to call a measure "security", "dignity" and "growth" when it produces exactly the opposite. We do not allow you to talk about growth to citizens when this is a measure that reduces by 490 million a fund that reads as follows: "Fund for actions to promote the development of intangible capital, competitiveness and productivity" Well, cutting this fund means accompanying growth: now there is a limit to everything. I know what happened, Mr President, and this House is able to reconstruct the dynamic of the measure, because it is by no means true that colleagues in the majority live on the moon or on another planet. You talk to the country, too. Go to the entrepreneurs, go to the artisans and traders, who tell you that the last good thing politics did for them was the superimmortizations of the Renzi Government and the Minister Calenda in Industry 4.0 and those measures allowed them to make investments. Look who votes Movimento 5 Stars and League does not lose interest in the country, the company and its competitiveness. So what do you rightly do, if your entrepreneurs also tell this? Reintroduction of superimmortizations: correct. There is only one problem, on the contrary, there are two: re-introduce the overlays, reducing their impact significantly, but above all you have forgotten to ask the entrepreneur who asked you to re-introduce them what programming time he has in his investments. Reintroduce super amortizations in June that apply for 2019 and have ahead of six months of programming horizon. Do you know how a company works? Have you asked business? Have you asked how they plan and study the market? That is what is missing from the measure. The fact that the preliminary ruling goes beyond the unconstitutionality, ladies and gentlemen, lies in the fact that, when we want to discuss the growth of a country, we cannot do so without a great plan for manufacturing, a great industrial plan, a great ecological transition plan, a great plan for public and private investment in green. Why are these things missing? Why was the captain still on Facebook ten minutes ago saying that he will send kisses to Europe if he doesn't want us to reduce taxes and that they will take care of it? In this measure do not tell the Italians that you take the Alitalia money: 650 million out of 900 million inside the electric bills. When we put a withdrawal in the electric bills it was to reduce the fee and make the Italians pay less. Yet, you have the courage to tell us that this measure accompanies growth and reduces taxes. Europe has no responsibility for the growth decree and does not place any constraint on it. You could find the money differently and instead you know what you do? It reduces the money of Industry 4.0 and puts them in favor of the municipalities in disarray and foretold. Will this produce the growth that you are telling the country, when there is no trace of the demands of the productive world of the Country? There is no simplification measure. Look - I say this also to my colleagues in the North League - that, when you participate in initiatives and assemblies of the productive world and ask you to compete at sea, they refer not to navigators, but to measures to increase the competitiveness of companies, otherwise you do not understand. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Yesterday someone, during our work, had the courage - and also the ardor - to include a beautiful conquest of our country as the Olympics of 2026 among the measures for growth. I will not bother and I will not allow myself to be ironic about the comments of the mayors of Rome and Turin who have accompanied that event; on the contrary, I want to defend those who in these hours accuse the Movimento 5 Stars of losing their identity: no, they were born from a comedian and the feet in comedy keep with force, without ambiguity. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Look, we - and that is why we shall be voting on this question - have taken you seriously and have looked into the content of their titles in the measures. We have sought in the Security Decree measures for greater security for Italians; we have sought in the Growth Decree measures to accompany enterprises, development and employment; we have sought in the Decree dignity something that spoke to the dignity of workers. We have done, Mr President, a search vertically and today, which is a very sad day and not only for the events that concern this House, but for what is happening on the Italian coasts and close to the Italian coasts, we have understood that those decrees are read not vertically, but horizontally. Is there security in the growth of the dignity of this majority? I'm afraid the answer is still no. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u23	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are forced here to ask questions about the constitutionality of the measures which are being put to the attention of this House. (16.58) (Follow Pagan). We regret to say that, but it has become a practice for us. The truth is that unfortunately this yellow-green government, which was supposed to represent what I think you called change, unfortunately nothing changes. If there were bad habits in past legislation, so the legislative measures, in particular the decrees-laws, became omnibus in fact, unfortunately you have not lost it; indeed, you have - if we want to tell us all - even aggravated it. The measure before this House today, unfortunately, once again appears to be spoiled by profiles of unconstitutionality. Others have already said so before me, but it is right to stress once again the defects and conflicts with our Constitutional Charter, which are also evident in this provision. The omnibus character of the measure is evident: it has been inserted within the so-called growth decree of everything and more. The cumbersome nature of numerous articles of non-immediate application certifies, once again, the fact that a decree-law of such an invoice cannot be brought with this type of legislative solution. The heterogeneity, therefore, of the subjects in a decree-law certainly determines an improper use of the decree of urgency and above all generates - and this is the aspect that we senators must consider important and fundamental - in fact the depletion of the legislative competence proper to the Chambers. The Government's will to carry out its programme or so-called contract - as you have defined - and to make its decisions operational immediately cannot become prevalent over the particular nature of the decree-law. It should be recalled that the verification of the criterion of homogeneity is one of the fundamental pillars on which the Constitutional Court - therefore, not the undersigned or the senators who have asked the question for a preliminary ruling - has always founded the argumentative paths linked to the presence or absence of respect for the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency required by the aforementioned constitutional article for the legitimate adoption of decree-laws. Well, in the measure under consideration, once again, by not changing absolutely the bad habits of the past but - as I explained before - making them worse, all this is not found. Articles 1 to 22 in particular, for example, with regard to the principle and issue of heterogeneity, although they concern provisions relating to taxation which are taken into account in the measure, deal with completely different issues. In some cases, in the rules of the decree-law it is also difficult to find that satisfaction of the principle of necessity and urgency proper to the decree-law. In view of the fact that during the vote of the examination of the Assembly in the Chamber of Deputies, during the sitting of 20 June, the majority rapporteur for the 5th Commission informed the government of the need to make some changes to the text of the decree-law for the purposes of the subsequent boiling and - as evidenced by the representatives of the oppositions during the session - it was not a matter of simple sketching corrections, but of much more important issues, such as the so-called South amendment, which, in fact, creates the conditions for some measures, which were deemed to be the responsibility of the South Ministry, to be attributed instead to the Regions. In this regard, it is still useful to point out that the practice that has been consolidated in this year of the yellow-green government shows a dangerous drift of our system in the monocameral sense. This is what I was talking about earlier and which clearly points out as we move forward in this legislative experience, in open violation of Article 70 of the Constitution, which states that the legislative function is exercised collectively by the two chambers, mortifying from time to time - as in the specific case - the role of one of the two branches of Parliament. In this case, the Senate does not express any role; in fact, it only ratified what has already happened in the House and that here it cannot be changed at all. The low level of consideration reserved to Parliament by the majority forces, while at the same time being incomprehensible the compression of the time of the decree-law process by the Senate, once again does not offer the possibility to carry out a thorough examination and to make changes to the text transmitted by the House. In this case, the senators, both the opposition and the majority, are not allowed to speak on a text. Therefore, it is clear that in this case it is not possible to define the measure in question as a measure in accordance with the Constitution. The customary contra legem by the legislator to produce decree-laws in contrast to the judgments of the Supreme Constitutional Court, constitutional dictates and legislative provisions weakens the credibility of the legislative bodies, their components, the value and strength of the laws and the Constitution. Moreover, it raises doubts that a decree law formally flawed may be issued and subsequently converted. So, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I must say that, once again - in spite of me or, better, in spite of us - we are forced to say that this decree-law is not in conformity with the Constitution. Therefore, as this is clearly contrary to our Constitutional Charter, the Forza Italia Group calls for a favourable vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u26	GRASSI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary to make a few comments on what Mr De Petris said as soon as possible. These days the false news is repeated that we would have allowed the privatization of water. In a nutshell, in 2017 - we were not the majority - with the law of stability was arranged the closure of the Agency for the development of irrigation and land transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia (EIPLI), an institution dating back to 1937, which has the management of water reserves and plants of the Apulian, Basilicata and Campania Regions. This agency has been in the pipeline for thirty-five years and is in loss, also because Aquedotto Pugliese SpA does not pay the fee that it should pay for the provision of the service. It is therefore a body in clear difficulty. It was not decided by us to close the agency and turn it into a public limited company. However, we have intervened on an already existing rule, establishing - by law, therefore - that private individuals cannot enter the capital. The SpA that is being set up and will be constituted can have as members exclusively the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Apulian Region, the Campania Region and the Basilicata Region. We are not faced with a private-law entity with regard to content. It must be said very clearly that these SpA, which are participating companies, are now regulated also and not only by legislative decree n. 175 of 2016, which imposes a series of rules that transfigure in a profound way the private nature of the same. What is the character of the public body beyond the dress? It is the lack of division of profits. The public economic entity, the special company does not have the typical purpose of the SpA of the division of profits. Therefore, these public limited companies, which take the form of in-house companies, if so-called similar control is envisaged in the statutes, are not compatible in practice with the division of profits. Many statutes of these in-house companies can be found online, in which it is clearly stated that the profits are used for the maintenance and modernization of the plants. The activity of the company in total public hands, which pursues not the division of profits, but the so-called objective profit, which is destined to the maintenance of the plants and whose tariffs are provided by a public authority, is not part of the market in a competitive sense, because the tariffs are subject to an authoritative measure. A company of this kind provides for similar control, which is that control according to which the public body of reference carries out control of the company of equal intensity with respect to the controls it carries out on its own organs. Well: a society that presents all these characteristics, beyond the nomen iuris - you should know it and you know it, also because the legislative decree n. 175 of 2016 is text wanted by the previous majority - has the substance, even if not the dress, of the public body. It must be made clear that the decisive element is not the container, which has now become a neutral container in the opinion of the public; the difference is given by the statute. A special company, formally a public body, may also have the same interests as private groups and banks, if, for example, it opens up to the provision of finance. The game - please - on the public nature of water management is played on content. Water has remained public: sources, lakes, streams, rivers are part of the state's unavailable heritage and these assets have remained of the State. This must be clearly stated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The management of the plants has passed to a SpA that, in the opinion now widespread, is radically different, rules to the hand, from the SpAs of strictly private law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then those who continue to repeat that we have created a SpA - forgive me - prove that they have not studied a recent manual of administrative law. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, I'm sending the senders back to the charge that we abandoned our first star. It's not like that, for God's sake! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At the 5 Star Movimento it is clear that some primary goods, for ethical and technical reasons, must be removed from the concept of privatisation. Attention: Privatisation - a word so used - makes sense where it opens up to a competitive system, because the private sector can be better than the public if there is competition, since competition allows a better allocation of resources. But there are sectors where privatisation is incompatible with competition. The paradigmatic example is given by the concession of roads, the highway concession. When we give a private road management, there is no competition there, because, when we arrive at the toll booth, we cannot choose which operator to take the highway with. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There we are faced with a privatisation that is not really such, because the element of competition is lacking; and it is competition that gives the private sector that quid pluris which sometimes makes it more efficient than the public. Water is one of those goods for which there can be no competition, because the pipeline is unique. Therefore, water cannot be privatised for technical reasons - just as roads cannot be privatised - and for ethical reasons, because it is a primary good, on which it is immoral to make profits. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u27	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP1), Senator Bellanova and other Senators (QP2) and Senator De Petris and other Senators (QP3), referring to the bill n. 1354. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u30	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. There are people in the gallery I wanted to say goodbye to. LUPE (M5S). But this is not an intervention on the order of business. CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). First of all, I would like to greet my colleague Jesus Yanez from Venezuela and the family of the first Vice-President Zambrano, who was arrested on 8 May and who is illegally detained in Venezuelan prisons. [[Applause from the FI-BP, PD, Mixed and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] I would also like the House to address this family, which is suffering and which has been received today in the Vatican, applause as a sign of Italian solidarity towards the battle of Venezuelan democrats. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u31	The Presidency strongly supports your greeting, even if it would have sufficed for you to tell us and we would have given the announcement. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u32	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1354, already approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the 6th Permanent Commission, Senator Bagnai, may speak to report on the work of the Commissions meeting 6a and 10a.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u33	Mr President, the 6th and 10th Commissions met at a first sitting on Monday to examine the draft law on the agenda. The comments made, in particular by the opposition colleagues, from the beginning of the sitting until today suggest what the outcome of this examination was. We gave the deadline for tabling amendments on the following day, Tuesday at 11 a.m.; 1,203 amendments were tabled (which seems to me to be a fair measure given the complexity of the measure) and 90 agendas. It was therefore decided, after the presentation and presentation of the amendments, to conclude the general debate, as set out in the Rules of Procedure, by drawing up and voting on the agenda. To the 90 initial agendas, others were added, which resulted from the transformation into agendas of some of the amending proposals. I must acknowledge the opposition's contribution to creating a peaceful and loyal climate of debate. We have tried, to the extent possible, to value its contribution in a context in which objectively, if we want to interpret the role of the majority in a way different from that of wronging the minority, it was already complex to exploit the role of this branch of Parliament. I think I can say that without being interpreted as a polemic. It is in fact, it was in things: to impossible nemo tenetur. So the measure arrives in this House - and I will not surprise you - without the rapporteur. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Bagnai's report, draft law No 1354, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, therefore without rapporteur, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as we have repeatedly pointed out in this House this afternoon, we are once again in the presence of yet another, repeated and grave institutional force. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u36	Excuse me, partner. I understand that the general debate may not be of interest to everyone, but those who remain in the Chamber are asked to follow it, otherwise, rather than being in the part of the hemicycle near the exit (I say this to colleagues who are lingering), make a decision: either sit down or leave. It's not a difficult decision. You're welcome, Senator Misses.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u37	President Bagnai has acknowledged the opposition to the work and responsibility with which we have followed the work in the Commissions. However - I want to say this forcefully, because there is a lack of programming capacity for the whole majority here - you are preventing the Senate of the Republic from contributing, in full respect of our prerogatives as parliamentarians, to the necessary improvements to a decree-law, which, moreover, was largely revised and upset by the Chamber of Deputies at first reading. The decree-law, in fact, will produce a growth for the umpteenth time below the albeit low forecasts contained in the DEF. A 0.1 percent growth was expected, therefore a DEF without ambitions and without proposals for the future and for the economic and social development of our country. The decree-law to our examination will introduce many ambiguities, uncertainties and gaps that to a reading of merit should be overcome and unfortunately vain and useless has been our work, not only in the preparation of the amendments but also in the preparation of different agendas because the necessary time for their deepening is lacking. You have even given up the investigation of our amendments. Yes, because the divisions of the majority, to which we must add the spites and the low-profile quarrels with electoral calculations, aimed at the announcements for the European elections, have held not hostage - in my opinion - this branch of Parliament but, even more serious for families and businesses, hold hostage the economic development of the whole of Italy. Good titles to the decrees are not enough to govern Italy if you do not have a project for the future. Today you are talking about growth, a narration conceived by the communication agencies but which confronts the reality and the real repercussions of these measures. Today, for example, while talking about growth, Istat certifies, in the first quarter of the year, the only real growth that unfortunately is that of increasing taxes for families and businesses, while the country is parked in recession and, even more serious, without plans for work and economic development. In fact, without attracting industrial investment there is no job generation, without balanced control over policies and debt, we do not guarantee solidity and credibility to our country in the European dimension. As was evident from the budgetary law, freeing the blockade of the additional Irpefs for territorial authorities together with other wrong measures would certainly have led to this effect. We have denounced it several times in the budgetary debate: freeing the blockade of the additional Irpefs in the territorial dimension would have produced an inevitable increase in the tax burden. The result is that, after a year, we are at 38% of the tax burden, at the highest, at the top since 2015. But all our demands and proposals, of course, have been rejected, in the extravagant ideology of a will to oppose the past without taking into account the present and future of the economy and society of our country. I would like to focus mainly on the measures that have repercussions on the regions and on the territorial authorities, we cannot fail to note in this context too the launch of new strong initiatives in communication, but as always weak, useless and in many cases even harmful in the implementation. Without a project to reform the institutions from local and regional authorities, we are not going anywhere. With extemporaneous measures you put pieces, but you do not identify the future. In a normal country, capital is its whole face and, even in the territorial dimension, determines the image of the nation: that's why Article 38, the so-called save Rome, which faces the debts of local authorities, seems a hot chamomile to cure a serious illness. We needed a special law for Rome Capital: this was the serious way to face the future of our country, not within an omnibus measure. Other is a shift in the cost of debt from a commissioner's management to the Italian State, without structural measures to block the increase or to generate the cash resources necessary for the better functioning of the services. It served and served a capacity of Government, which in the City of Rome appears insufficient and inadequate to deal with the complexity of a capital among the most important and precious in the world. On the other hand, if it takes eight months to reopen a subway station, it is clear that no additional words are needed to determine the state of crisis and degradation in which our capital lies. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you, you've already gone a minute further, Senator Misses. MANCA (PD). I'll finish, Mr. President. You do not have a design to connect local authorities to the Provinces and Regions. We need to change our path: the cost of the failure of your economic policies, twice a year of government, is enormous and unfortunately is dumped on the Italians. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if the question of trust is raised, as we can expect, Forza Italia will clearly vote against it. Given that in a topic like the decree-law on growth has everything to do with the economy of the country, before I heard about water management. Sometimes we have to say what many local administrators think and think, even if not all, in the political differentiation: I believe that the path taken is the beginning of the sovietization of the system, so we start from the waters and return to the public and to the deficit. Given that the water is public, as is evident, the management must be done in another way. It has been said by various political forces that it is an omnibus decree: in my opinion, it is a two thousand or three thousand extensions and an average Italian who reads a measure of this type thinks that there is simplification. Perhaps we can do this in a different way: there are times and seasons of politics in which we need to intervene on many measures. It is true that growth - the decree-law has been titled this way - is the problem of these months, compared to GDP and therefore compared to the 2019 deficit and, in anticipation, 2020. The second big problem is the debt: we don't mention it, we take it for granted, some newspapers talk about it. The third is differentiated federalism: we talked about it in the Commission this morning, it is current, but it may be a bomb that can disrupt the system. I think that in economics numbers are not an independent variable or an optional, therefore, if we talk about paying the commercial debts of the public administration with mini-BOTs (then we deny it and reaffirm it the next day), we clearly talk about debt that has not been accounted for before for a disorder, for a rule that does not return to the public accounting system; but if we pay with mini-BOTs within one, two or three months, mini-BOTs then used to pay contributions and taxes, these go to debt and we have to face them. If it were so easy and no one intervened to say that everything cannot be done properly, we would all be running for President of the Council or Minister for Economic Affairs. It would be too easy: we promise more (and in part it has been done). Now, someone, sooner or later, will intervene to stop this system. In the public budget we need an overall view: the whole budgetary framework, the balances. I remain of the idea that the state budget can be transferred to a sheet A4, because macro-balances, macro-expenditure and macro-refunds can be seen where one can go through some choices, which are always postponed for the policy system in general and, in particular, for the policy of the last few months. It also takes a time perspective: announcements for 2023 may have a psychological effect, but they do not have a practical effect. Then there is the important question of the relationship of all kinds of economic choice with Europe, which has begun the infringement procedure. Like many majority politicians, I hope all of them, I think that the defeated commissioners are enjoying a hyperburocratic procedure for which they remain in office for several months, in my opinion, to do damage. On these, the voice can be raised quietly, but perhaps it is worth working on diplomacy within the structure of Europe, possibly seeking alliances with other States. Then there is a relationship of the decree-growth law with the DEF that has been approved in recent weeks, always for the balances: if we talk about economy, the safeguard clauses and the announcement of flat tax for the impact of billions on the budget have a relevance that is part of the overall picture. I have briefly examined the arguments of the decree-law in question. I think that on some issues, such as Alitalia and Roma Capitale, the average Italian of a small town or a small town that has been reading newspapers for years, you think that certain decisions must be made. For me, Alitalia - I'm sorry - failed at the time. Swissair was allowed to fail, but the next day it is split up and is now managed; Switzerland has failed its flagship company. The trade union hyperguard in Alitalia and the difficulties it has always had, being dislocated as a hub at a certain geographical point, ensure that Alitalia will never be able to render for how it is managed. I'd throw away the key or give it to someone. As far as Roma Capitale is concerned, it is true that it is a matter of dignity on the one hand, but it is also true that those who managed Rome handled it badly. It is disdainable and crazy to think that even tourists get used to dirt, broken roads and that the city budget is made of places that have been hidden under the carpet for years. I think the average Italian doesn't like to continue paying for Roma Capitale, even with the fund for the competition to pay for the debts of other metropolitan cities, through public intervention. I've missed two arguments that I think have been expunged. It will be my ignorance but I quote them: Ilva and motorway concessions. Let's be careful to touch on certain topics, because then you have to pay. There are some rules, such as the taxing from 2020 of fees not received on leases, which are a reasonable choice. The reduction of INAIL prizes, unfortunately since 2023, can have a psychological effect. Imu deductibility on capital goods, by degrees, up to one hundred percent in 2023, can have beneficial effects. There is also provision for contradictory treatment with the taxpayer. The Tasi exemption - much requested by manufacturers, but rightly so - from 2022 for buildings built and intended for sale is a good thing. The fight against evasion in the short lease tourism sector must also be pursued in relation to the principles of competition for those who are in good standing. With regard to local authorities, there is a rule that must be exploited: to make the issue of licences by municipalities subject to verification of the payment of local taxes. I think it's a test that can be carried out. In an article it is then expected that the territorial authorities can dispose of public real estate: I believe that this is part of the Fondo salva Italia, which can be formed on a regional basis, as Panerai says on the "Milano Finanza" and "Carlo Messina," CEO of Intesa Sanpaolo, who is willing to invest billions on this. This is the shock for the economy. [[Call the president back.]] I'm gonna finish. Good is Article 30 and good are the rules on Sabatini law, which was a Member of my Province. The savings from citizenship income and 100 share keep them aside, because you may need them. We are too weak on the international financial market. If the European financial bubble - caused by Germany, derivatives, the loss of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank - goes off, we can light the candles. However we attack the public debt, otherwise the public debt will attack us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u41	Mr President, the first time that the Council of Ministers adopted the Decree-Law on growth on 4 April last year, it did so by means of the formula 'unless otherwise agreed', thus reserving the possibility to amend the text at a later date, after the entry into force, which actually took place on 1 May, after the adoption of a new text by the Council of Ministers, which took place on 23 April. From that moment on, we know that a myriad of amendments have been tabled by the League and Movimento 5 Stars, which have blocked the measure for about a month in the Commission, in the House of Deputies. Now you arrive in the Senate counting the minutes with the clock, because on June 29 the decree-law expires and, if it is not converted, decays. The urgency of a new Italian growth package, as well as the threat of the infringement procedure by the European Union, is also highlighted by Istat data and estimates of the country's economic performance. In the first quarter of the year, economic growth figures were around ridiculous percentages. According to new estimates, Italy will close the year by reaching more than 0.3 per cent of GDP, half of what was achieved in 2018, about one sixth of the 2017 result. At the end of March, it was stated that 1% of GDP growth expected by the Government for 2019 had no basis. This has shown that the most important flag measures of the League-5 Star Government, beginning with 100 percent and citizenship income, would have had no effect on the stalemate situation in which the country has been in office since this Government took office. The economic situation is clear to everyone: we see it almost every week, with data from Istat and other international agencies. This very day Istat has once again certified, if necessary, the total failure of this Government's action. Faced with so many promises comes data, numbers, reality. The tax pressure - it has been stated - has grown in the first trimester of 0,3 points regarding the first trimester last year: we are to 38 percent, not happened since 2015. Istat also reported that in the first three months of 2019 the profit share is 40.7 percent, down 0.6 percentage points, compared to the previous quarter. In this case, this is the lowest value recorded in the current historical reference series, launched in 1999. Since the initial orientation of the measure under consideration expressed the desire to have a precise focus on economic growth strategies, the bill has now come to enclose the most urgent solutions for the problems afflicting Municipalities, Regions, institutes and bodies: a sort of omnibus decree, which has little or nothing to do with the need of the country to grow. Salva Roma, salva Comuni, salva banche, salva Mercone Uno, salva INPGI, slide company for early retirement, cutting of Ires, issue of electronic receipts. Let me say that this seems to me to be one of the most striking elements: I simply cannot understand what the postponement from ten to twelve days of the transmission of the tax receipt to the Revenue Agency will have to do with growth. Such a measure has no impact on the economic life of the country and like this measure, there are many others in the measure, which have nothing to do with growth. It will not happen, but if I were the President of the Republic, this measure would not stop you, indeed, I would tear it to your face, because nothing has to do with measures that must have at the center of growth, the greatest need that our country has in this historical phase. The decree-law in question proved to be at the end for what it is, that is a great bluff. He should have had the same power as other measures only for the name you gave him, but that, alas, is not enough. It is not enough to say that poverty is abolished in order to have an effect. It's not enough to say "closed doors"!It's not enough to say "closed doors" when only in the last week 200 people have arrived in Lampedusa and today they are making incredible scenes about 43 unfortunates, who have been offshore, at sea, for two weeks. The label outside a box is not enough to define its contents. The decree-law under consideration will not produce any kind of growth. Moreover, it is the same Government that, in one of the initial reports, ruled that the effect of the measure on GDP would be equal to 0.05% - that is, zero - but then retouched, saying that, for the combined arrangement between the decree-growth law and the decree-law unblocks yards, the measure would affect the GDP by 0.2 percent. However, we are talking about EUR 400 million, which is a ridiculous figure. To really grow ours and any kind of country you need investment and we had left you 90 billion euros, which to a large extent you have not yet managed to unlock. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We need an industrial plan to relaunch our economy and, above all, to put the workers who create it at the centre of active policies, that is, companies. I do not repeat what Mr Richetti has already said with regard to the Industry Plan 4.0, because you have really done a disaster in this area and it is indecent to think that you can give entrepreneurs back a measure for only six months. What you lack is courage: to be able to grow a country needs courage. I would ask you not to answer me, saying "What then is the PD?" "What have you done?" "because the data, not only of Istat, but of all the major international agencies, say that when we governed GDP has grown, employment has grown and tax pressure has decreased, while today it is happening exactly the opposite." Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to share a brief reflection. In these hours we were very involved, even emotionally, for the assignment by the IOC, Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo, of the Winter Olympics of 2026. This is a very important event, which I am sure will be another opportunity to show the world what our country is capable of. Colleagues, it has been estimated that the Olympic Games will have an effect on GDP of +2.3 billion euros, an important and significant figure, much higher than what the Decree-Law on Growth has established or will allow to obtain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u42	Please conclude, Senator Begin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u43	COMINANCES (PD). I shall conclude, Mr President. This is a demonstration that having a vision of tomorrow, looking forward, planning, building and imagining the future, cooperating between different institutions is the only way to bring the country to grow and increase its wealth. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u44	Colleagues, since you have decided with your groups to divide the time available between several speakers, I would ask you to stick to the time set. She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to adopt a very important measure for the development of the country, for its small and medium-sized enterprises and for workers. It is an ambitious decree-law, which seeks to combine the need for growth of the country with that of safeguarding the environment, enhancing merit and capacity, and investing in technological transformations of enterprises. We can therefore talk about a decree-law growth to all intents and purposes, not only from the point of view of the administrative mechanisms of business life, whose simplification receives further impetus, but also from the point of view of investment in people, in their talent, in their ability to invent and innovate. To invent and innovate are two concepts that, never as at this time, it would be essential to affirm in Europe, in that very Europe that, as an economic patient in the world, it desperately needs to recover the path of growth by focusing on its citizens and its businesses. The reason why we are going to convert a decree-law renamed decree-growth, in this sense, also stems from the awareness and the desire to react to a European context of economic slowdown in some aspects self-induced. It is the same Europe in which the economic locomotive, that is Germany, is fighting in a growth from "zero comma," exactly like Italy. That very Europe which, by applying its rules in a fragmented way and, I would say, pulverized, has produced internal imbalances in everyone's eyes. It has allowed Germany itself, without a blow, to feed the bulimia of exports, systematically violating every parameter in this matter and to put its partners in difficulty, until the outcome, to some extent obvious, of the last few months: trade skirmishes and customs wars, induced mainly by the United States which, in one way or another, wanted to send out a signal. I say this in order to focus on the context of low growth in Europe, for which the European Union itself has not indifferent faults. This context has penalized Italy and has pushed us with the utmost conviction to elaborate this decree growth. In it there are very important fiscal measures for companies, which correspond in part to historical demands for too long remained unanswered: I am thinking of the further increase in the deductibility of the Imu paid on the capital goods of companies, which in a few years will become integral; the progressive reduction from 24 to 20% of Ires on the profits of the companies provided; the prediction that it makes structural the cut of the INAIL tariffs in order to lower the cost of the work of the enterprises; the recovery of an important instrument to stimulate the investments in capital goods such as super depreciation. A very important chapter concerns investment, for businesses and for people. Not only have we increased the Guarantee Fund for medium-sized enterprises, so as to ensure access to credit for long-term investments, but we have also refinanced the Guarantee Fund for the first home, to help many young couples contract a mortgage to buy a property and thus start investing in their future. Thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars, thanks to the majority that supports this Government, in the decree growth was guaranteed the maximum concentration on the issues of environment and sustainable development. I will not dwell again on the question of public water, the identity principle of Movimento, because Mr Grassi explained everything in an exemplary way just now. All I'm saying is that the attempt to privatise water in the South, built on track by previous governments until shortly before the March 2018 general election, was foiled. We have also allocated 140 million in terms of the environment to stimulate the development of the circular economy. These resources are aimed at helping to realize new products, processes or services, providing support for economic activities that wish to rethink or convert the productive model. We think only of the efficient use of resources and the reuse and transformation of waste; we think of the reduction, recycling and reuse of food waste; the development of integrated water cycle systems; the supply, rational use and sanitization of water; technologies that can increase the life time of products and make the production cycle more efficient; finally, we think of the experimentation and development of new intelligent packaging models. All this has in the decree growth a not indifferent economic shore. There are, then, interventions in favour of the municipalities, which have been beaten in recent years by various cuts and stability pacts. The decree-law allocates an additional 500 million to help mayors carry out investment projects in the field of energy efficiency - think, for example, of public lighting - and sustainable territorial development (for example, the safety of schools). This assistance is in addition to the 400 million which had already been allocated to assist the municipalities in the implementation of investments against hydrogeological risk. Not to mention the signal we give to the municipalities themselves on the recruitment front: we have linked the capacities of hiring municipalities and regions no longer to historical expenditure and turn over, but to a standard value of financial sustainability related to revenues of the previous year. It is estimated that, thanks to this intervention, we will be able to unlock more than 40,000 recruitments in the municipalities. It will be fresh air and essential staff also to implement with more speed and efficiency the public investments that we have relaunched through the maneuver. Finally, Mr President, but only as an example, I want to dedicate a transition to innovation. In the growth decree, among the many measures, we have included a very important rule that fluidizes the so-called patent box, that is the facilitated tax regime that excludes from the taxable 50% of the income deriving from the use of copyrighted patents or software. With our amendment it will no longer be necessary to wait for the long time of the appeal to the Revenue Agency, but it will be possible to indicate the income that can be facilitated directly within the tax return. Help is not indifferent to all those companies that bet on their ability to innovate and invent solutions to grow and be competitive on domestic and international markets. In conclusion, Mr President, we are about to adopt a decree that intends to react to the economic slowdown situation by finally providing Italy with instruments to begin with a reversal of the trend. All this by enhancing the soul and body of the country, its small businesses, its talents, its young people and its excellences. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u46	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final lines of a long and very troubled story. Two months ago, the Government issued the decree-law called growth, a type of measure that the Government can adopt only in case of necessity and urgency. Well, so much was necessary and urgent the content of this decree (which I think I can define together with the other omnibus colleagues) that it took months of waiting to see it come to the final approval. A wait that not only denies the requirements of necessity and urgency, but that reveals very deep perplexity among the government forces, which every day are more in pain in pursuing the interests of the country. Yes, because the times of the parliamentary process can only be explained by the attempts, alternating and continuous, to satisfy various electoral needs, each one of its own. But if at least all this expectation had led to concrete measures for the growth of the national economy, we would have gladly borne the weight of it. In spite of this, we are not only witnessing yet another act of removal of the role and function of this Parliament, having been deprived of a broad, concrete and real space of intervention, but we must surrender to the fact that, as usual, we are obliged to take note, even of a disorganic heterogeneity that distances us from the principle itself and the value of growth. It is not enough to post the sign "growth" so that a measure really will have positive effects on the real economy of the country. It will be a great way to communicate through social media, through a strong and immediate media impact, but not thought, not reasoned and above all in a completely ineffective way to achieve tangible results. There is no growth, there is no strategy that defines certain times and mature choices, up to the real needs of the country. Much, much more could and should have been done, especially in terms of the allocation of resources to relaunch public and private investment, which is the driving force behind a sound, structured and sustainable economic recovery. It would have been necessary to intervene courageously on industrial policies and instead the decree almost forgets them. And to pay the consequences will be the Italian small and medium-sized industry, which is not supported enough at a time when, on the contrary, it would need better conditions to strengthen and resume to run. Structural action should have been taken to boost consumption, adapt wages and increase employment. Really active policies are lacking. Little, almost nothing has been done about that. And also where the aims of some measures - as in the case of facilities for energy efficiency or contributions to the municipalities for the sustainable development of the territory - are to be welcomed - remain the perplexity: in the first case, in order to encourage even more the interventions of regeneration of the existing patrimony, also with a view to a substantial reduction of consumption of new soil, without causing harm to small and medium-sized enterprises; in the second case - i.e. the contributions in favour of the municipalities - to give the measure a logic of system, indispensable in order to avoid that resources useful to finance the interventions of energy efficiency and sustainable development become a trivial and inefficient contribution to rain. But the great absence of this measure remains precisely that part of Italy that more than all would deserve growth and investment: the Mezzogiorno of Italy, not even touched by the trajectory of the decree-law, if not for article 44- bis, with fiscal incentive to promote the growth of southern Italy, which is nothing more than an intervention also to save, rightly, the Banca People's of Bari, just that type of intervention - useful and just - that you all demonized until a few months ago. We have tried, in the very short time allowed, to propose changes useful in order to integrate and improve these and other norms, through solicitations and agendas, that for us are not only method of dilation of the times, but a concrete expression in order to make more effective the contents of the decree-law. Among these, there is one of great importance, which intervenes in the circuit between economy and environment, requiring the government a serious commitment to the circular economy, the ecological transition and solidarity. I conclude by pointing out that the real strength and credibility of a political proposal lies in the quality, not only of the pronunciation, but of the path of dialogue and confrontation. The quality figure must clearly and incontrovertibly connote objectives, objectives and methods. Our commitment will always be in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u49	Mr President, this decree-law has had a very long and troubled birth. We are examining it a few hours after its expiry, so it has been in force for almost two months, but it has been preceded by a broad debate in the Council of Ministers and also by texts which had been adopted previously. Therefore, it has been almost three months that we have been talking about this decree growth and for two months it has been in force, for the most part, in its original version. At the same time, the country's economic situation is further, dramatically worse, as this morning's data show, both with respect to the increase in tax pressure, and with respect to the loss of control of public accounts, as well as with respect to the forecasts (essentially always wrong) contained in the flag measures of the majority (quota 100 and income of citizenship), and, finally, with respect to the serious industrial and social crisis of the country that worsens from day to day. 5:58 p.m. (Urso followed). However, I would like to take this opportunity - of course, first of all to the Presidency and to the benches of the Government, then to the parliamentarians of the majority - to examine and talk about a single case, which concerns only 1.2 million families, 1.2 million Italians (entrepreneurs, artisans, professionals and families) who, according to the trade union of Italian banks (the FABI) are at risk of wear and tear. I don't know if the usury is the first, the second, the third, the fourth or the fifth star of the Movimento 5 Stars, but I have the impression that you have locked yourselves in the Palace and no longer see the suffering of the Italians. 1.2 million people are at risk, because at this moment their lives, their history, often their home (speaking of loans to young people and do not realize that hundreds of thousands of homes are about to be taken away from Italian citizens and families) are linked to the massive sale of credit in distress and credit deteriorated by Italian banks. I say this also and above all to the League, which should represent the productive world of the North: in the alarm to the Country and the Parliament, launched the other day by the bank union (110,000 members), the majority of these Italians and these enterprises, now reduced in conditions such as to be subjected to blackmail of the usurers, is located in Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia Romagna, and represents a good part of the productive system of the Country, which is in a situation of impasse. Well, we noticed the story and on September 11 last year we presented a measure that allowed this million and two hundred thousand Italian families to redeem themselves, to free themselves from debt slavery. We presented the measure as a draft law and it was assigned to the Finance Committee. President Bagnai, who is absent here and I regret it, assured us that he would immediately place the measure on the Commission's agenda. The government here told us to share it. We have retabled the measure, in the form of an amendment, first to the simplification decree: nothing to do; then to the Carige decree: nothing to do. But in that place the Undersecretary Villarosa said to share the provision and accepted it as an agenda, committing himself to examine it. Then, silence. Too bad that the other day a gentleman in his underwear looks out of a balcony in Naples and manages to address the President of the Count Council, who was on the other balcony with his cocoon of officials. The President of the Count Council, considering that he is the attorney of the people, also welcomes the demands of this gentleman in his underwear who, heartfelt, turns to him saying: other than income of citizenship, other than 100. There is a measure, says the gentleman in his underwear to Conte, which, if Parliament approves it, could set Italy back on track. Count asks: but which one? And the gentleman tells him the number and the proposer of the provision. Count says he'll examine him right away. You have already examined this three times in this House. You rejected the amendments and committed yourself, in March, to implementing them on an agenda. Why am I talking about it in this decree-law? Because the growth decree, which speaks of everything, also speaks of this. Also in the growth decree you have put an article that concerns the tax benefits of the vehicle companies for the management of the NPLs. As a matter of fact, deal with this issue not on the side of the victims, but on the side of the securitisation companies, so that they are facilitated in their operation of collecting the victims' money. We are talking about EUR 360 billion, which is the amount of loans not repaid by banks. We are talking about 170 billion sold to a few debt recovery companies. We talk, as the union of Italian banks says, of the usual known, of the usual characters that are enriched at the rate of usury. That's what the bankers say, i.e. the employees, because they know how much is happening, they know that their client, his family, to whom they have given up their deteriorated debt, is subjected to choking operations. The 110,000 union members tell us to pay attention to what is happening, because it's a social bomb. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] In the face of this, what do you do? Intervened on the side of those who trigger the social bomb and not on the side of those who are victims of the social bomb: one million and two hundred thousand families, mostly entrepreneurs, craftsmen, merchants of the North productive, who have ended up in the central risk of the Bank of Italy and can no longer operate. I beg you, as the lawyer did in his underwear (which is then a well-known professor of civil law) to examine our provision and not to close you in your palace. We proposed a solution: the possibility of redeeming the debt on the part of the person who, of course, had not been able to pay the payments. It was, because, of course, the measure is limited to the deteriorated credits already declared as such on 31 December last year. It is a phenomenon that concerns the social, financial and banking crisis of the last five years and we do not think, of course, that it can be a regime-based measure. It's to heal the great scandal of the banks. Where has the Bank Commission gone? Where has the Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system gone, which was also to examine this? Yesterday we denounced him publicly and today the President of the House woke up, finally asking the names of the Groups. BOTTICS (M5S). Ask the Democratic Party and Forza Italia for names. Mr Urso (FdI). Do you need our alarm every time? Where do you sleep, between the cheeks of power? Well, we propose and propose that, when the damaged credits are transferred, the bank informs the debtor, who will have three months to redeem them, paying more than they were sold, but in a congruent way, so as not to be subjected, as happens every day, to the banking stalking, which constitutes crime, and not to be at the mercy of the usurers, always according to what is denounced by the Italian banks. This would also allow to bring back in bonuses, because they would be cancelled from the central risks of the Bank of Italy, 1.2 million artisans, entrepreneurs, traders and families, present to a large extent in the North of our country, but also in the South of course. Is it possible the League forgot this? Is it possible that the Movimento 5 Stars canceled from the five stars first of all the fight against the financial oligopolies that are speculating on the social drama of our country? We tell you this once again and we demand that President Conte respond not to us, but to the lawyer in the pants of Naples: it is he who said - not us - that this is the law of the pants, which will allow Italy not to end up in the pants. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galliani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u51	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, the measure we are considering, with the many changes introduced during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, has also found a good appreciation from the employers' organisations. It should be acknowledged that, with respect to the rules contained in the decree-law issued at the end of April, the text seeks to remedy what has not been done so far, in a long year of government. Entrepreneurs need rules that support their actions, not because they are not able to take initiatives alone, but because, on the basis of the rules, they make the following decisions. Those who do business take into account the overall framework of the rules, comparing all the conditions of their country with what other countries can offer them, in a world that is now increasingly globalized, not only in the industrial sector, but also in that of services. In this context, there are large countries, such as China, which have based their economy on an industrial policy framework that has multiannual programming and whose targets are incredibly ambitious, as precise as they are. However, there are also smaller countries, on the border with Italy or almost, in the East of Europe and in the South of the Mediterranean, which offer favorable conditions. Therefore, in assessing where to start a business, where to bring your capital or where to ask for credit, the Italian entrepreneur certainly keeps in mind the overall framework of rules and opportunities. For this reason, the introduction of incentives to invest in our country must always be welcomed. This, however, is only a small step in introducing new measures and it replicates some of them that have already worked in the past. The aim must be to avoid the flight of Italian companies abroad and, at the same time, to create a fabric of favorable provisions for those who want to do business in Italy, with a framework of rules that is organic and lasting. We therefore welcome the re-introduction of super amortization to 130%, which, with a limit of 2.5 million, is aimed mainly at medium-sized and small enterprises that want to invest in capital goods. Welcome to the so-called mini-Ires, a tax regime that gradually lowers the rate to 20% for small entrepreneurs, which will be in place from 2023. It can be considered an acceptable rate, considering that a small company almost always coincides with the person who leads it, who devotes his whole life to it and who wants to reinvest his profits in the activity in which he believes. Another common sense rule is that it provides for the deductibility of Imu from income taxes. It should be said that a tax on instrumental real estate would be better not to be there; but to arrive at a deduction that gradually becomes 100% from 2023 is a positive fact. As I reviewed the measures of this decree-law, I noted that many of the measures, even of common sense, come under the regime in three or four years' time. So the courage to insert more generous predictions from the outset, that had an effect on growth since this year, which instead will remain very low, just above the "zero comma." There has been a lack of financial cover that should support good measures to support entrepreneurs; there is little more than EUR 400 million. It is still very little, compared with what is allocated to other flag measures, citizenship income and 100, which will cost just under 8 billion compared to the 11 estimates and which will have a very low impact on growth, but high on public expenditure. It is also appreciated the first step towards the norms that restart the yards, moreover embellishing the cities through plans of urban regeneration; but it is only a very small step. It is not conceivable that there are no interventions to modernise the infrastructures of the peninsula, which in many cases are firm in the sixties, just as it is not conceivable that there are works like the TAV, whose bans go on despite the opposition of the Minister of Infrastructure and one of the parties of Government. A minister in charge of public works should be happy if new construction sites leave or if the firm ones are unblocked, often interrupted for bureaucratic reasons, and should do everything in his power to unblock the firm appropriations. It doesn't seem that way. This is the great contradiction of this Executive, which unfortunately emerges in the choices of economic policy, with too many nos marked by one of the contractors, in an unnatural government pact. Moreover, in the eternal dispute of autonomy or not referred to the Regions, in which the majority is engaged in these days, it has not been noticed that Italy already travels at two speeds; we are told by the data just disseminated by Istat, which photograph a country at two speeds, with a Mezzogiorno that grows less than half of the Centre-North, constituting a brake factor to the overall growth of Italy, which in turn increases half of the average of the European countries. Therefore, the theme of infrastructure is central, without which the South is even further away from the heart of the productive world, especially that of subcontracting, and fails to engage the productive models. Having made these considerations, it is also worth wondering what our economy lacks in order to be able to return to growth with the rhythms that characterized the years of economic boom. First of all, what moves the economies of the whole world and, if you will allow me, also the human relations of the whole world and which is realized in a single word: trust. The lack of trust is the constant of the last six or seven years, in which ordinary people are afraid to buy and keep their savings firm and businesses are afraid to invest, because they do not trust policy decisions. It is therefore necessary to adopt rules that create a climate of greater certainty, a framework that is widely shared and therefore an expression of the majority of Italians, while the sum of the Members who support this Executive cannot be so, because, despite the government contract, the programs of the two contractors are too distant from each other. We therefore believe it is necessary to turn away the daily theater of politics that scare investors; we must make sure that we look at Italy as a reliable nation, in which it is beautiful and convenient to come and invest your time and your money. At the same time, conditions must be created to stop the bleeding of investments that, on the contrary, take the foreign routes. In essence, a framework of certainty which can only be derived from the desire to take the measures that companies have always requested: simplification, rapid settlement of disputes, cost-effective access to the capital market and, for all, a fairer tax system. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Casini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u52	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u53	Mr President, I would like to put to the attention of the House a part of this decree-law which concerns the cheated savers, who are conned by the banks. It is interesting because we are faced with an unspeakable ballet that lasts from the birth of this Government, even from before, to tell the truth. In short, the majority forces of this Government, its leaders, in particular Salvini and Di Maio, had promised that in the measure under discussion they would resolve everything. I simply wish to recall the facts. They have been swindled by a system of banks - which is evident to the public, thank God - hundreds of thousands of citizens in our country; certainly the epicenter was Veneto, but not only that region was affected by this sad affair. Not only have great professionals, entrepreneurs, industrialists, so people who know how to defend themselves and still have the money to give themselves a dignified life, but also hundreds of thousands of families who had put in these banks the savings of a lifetime. Personally I met workers who had put all the TFR, all their savings in the actions of these banks; they had done it for themselves and their families: I met a father who had put the savings of a life for the disabled son. Attention, these were not any banks, but local banks, with which the citizens of that area had established a relationship of trust, often for generations. It is therefore a betrayal not from a bank based in London, Brussels or Shanghai, but from credit institutions based in Vicenza or Montebelluna. Mr President, at last the previous central-left governments - beyond the general nonsense launched through a memorable system of fake news with which they have been consolidated in non-secondary parts of public opinion - have taken over the story and saved the accountants, the employees, the base, the structure of these banks, so that the devastation did not fall back on the families, savers and on all the productive fabric that with these banks had built a branching and growth in the territory of competence. Finally, the outgoing center-left government, the Silveri Gentiloni Government, with the 2018 budget law, so in December 2017, for the first time in a European country, states that shareholders can also be refreshed when the so-called misselling, i.e. the scam, is proven. In this case we are talking about fraud, because hundreds of thousands of people have been deceived for their ignorance in the technical sense, that is, they ignored the fundamentals of finance. Mr President, it is necessary to speed up, because after the centre-left government with the 2018 budget law had laid the foundations on which to draw up the decrees, this Executive had to immediately launch them and could do so very quickly; it did not want to do so - I would like to remind colleagues - despite the unanimous vote in this House, in August 2018, an amendment of mine was voted unanimously at the end of October on the deadline for writing the decrees. Nothing has been done; the government wanted to introduce a new rule in the 2019 budget law; we told you that it was wrong, in fact it was and you had to bring the primary rule back here. To conclude, Mr President, I would ask that at least the possibility of total and not partial refreshment be included, without the limit of EUR 100,000. In fact, Di Maio, in the election campaign, came to say in Veneto - I listened to him with my own ears during a press conference - that everything that had been less than 100 percent of the refreshment, would have been considered alms. And it is not Europe that sets a 30% limit, because the European Commission has said in an official way that it is a government choice that can restore up to 100%. Refresh up to 100%, refreshed over 100,000 euros. Do justice, President, because here of "balle" (I apologise for the term) we have heard too many of them. PRESIDENT. - Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whether it is an omnibus decree-law is in fact a matter of fact. I pierced the index and already in its very first part register: the issues related to the house, the radio companies, the return of the brains, the hiring of staff in the public administration, the maintenance of the roads of Friuli, the compensation for the savers, the paediatric transplants and so on. The register also serves, for the complete application of the decree-law, at least 39-40 implementing rules, which causes the characteristic of urgency to lapse for the provision that we are discussing. What I do not understand is the political ratio of a decree-law of this nature because it is more a measure of the end of the legislature than of the half legislature and has two characteristics that manifest themselves and that stand out in an absolutely obvious way: it lacks an organic vision of the growth of a great manufacturing country such as Italy (the second European power and among the first in the world), and lacks an equally punctual, effective and organic response on the four issues that afflict contemporary Italy; low productivity, asphyxia of the internal market, a clearly weak role in Europe, excessive debt. If we go climbing in the article, we find no answer on the four issues that are troubling this extraordinary country. Many are flag measures, but they are of no use to you when you face the hairpins of history. There is no doubt that the time we are living - not alone, not Italy alone - is a hairpin in some way decisive that should be addressed, instead, with measures that should have a design nature. I do not belong to the category of those who claim that everything is negative. I record a recovery, for example, of the over-immortizations (and that's fine), the deductibility of the Imu (and that's fine), the strengthening of the fund for companies that are the victims of missed payments (and that's fine); but if I go to see the investments that are made to cope with these measures (I think of the mini recovery of Industry 4.0, Article 49- bis and the integration of young people in the labour market), I see that the chapters are right but the funds made available for good ideas are not there or are so lacking that they seem completely insufficient to face decisive knots for the Italian economy and growth. I'm not talking about Alitalia I know well. It is expected an intervention of the MEF with several tens of million that are added to the several hundred million already spent in favor of such company. I register that all positions taken by the Government, since it is in office - we are now traveling for the thirteenth month - have been completely denied. Where, then, is the political point, if there is no organic provision, if there is no effective vision to buffer the reasons for the failure of this Italy? My reading is that the measure is born dead, because a part of the majority - and I am referring to the component that belongs to Vice President Salvini - already has the head oriented elsewhere and the direction elsewhere that causes this decree-law to be born dead is the flat tax, on the one hand, and the law of stability, on the other, which aims to bring into question already in the heart of summer. Now, you will understand well, Mr President, that if today I approve of the decree-growth law, which in its presentation is already decidedly ganghered, but at the same time I put the spotlight on flat tax and the law of stability, it is like saying that this measure, if it is okay, will leave the time it finds. Not only does it lack a project vision to address Italy's major unresolved issues, but above all two effective responses to two specific issues (which may not exist, because in the contract between the League and 5 Stars are not foreseen). What do we do to increase the cake of wealth and allow it to be divided equally? What do we do to support the return of the brains, not with very weak flag measures and without putting an effective fund next to you to bring them back? There is no measure concerning the increase in grants for deserving students who are in need, nor is there any talk of reducing the tax core, which serves to make the internal market more sparkling than it is at present. I would like to make one final point, in conclusion: moving further and further the resolution of the problems - so flat tax and the law of stability and, rather than lack of a project, decision not to present an organic one in order to face the nodes of this Italy - I fear that we will continue to scratch the belly of the grudge and anger that spread in the country, doing pin especially on the extraordinary difficulties and fears of the middle Italian class. Attention, however: in these days there is not a great anniversary, but the memory of the myth of the mutilated victory; even then a government won the elections, but brought Italy to the brink of the abyss. My opinion is that measures like these bring Italy closer to the leap into the dark, because only with promises, in the end, you do not live. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u55	Senator Margiotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u56	Mr President, in this case too, the Government has the capacity to give a fine name to a decree-law: growth. We had decrees-law dignity, security and now the duo-growth unblocks yards. There is nothing to say, they are good at giving names: the problem is that this decree-law will have no effect on growth, as well as unlocking yards will have no effect on yards, and this is the maximum problem. On the other hand, the same technical reports accompanying both decrees estimate very little of the increase in GDP that could result. I have a feeling that that estimate is also absolutely optimistic. It is an omnibus decree-law, as has already been said. Of course, it contains some positive things, first of all - for me - the amendment that saves Radical Radio (on the strong action of the Democratic Party), a voice of democracy. It contains, however, many other negatives or at least irreconcilable and almost all commercial interventions, without any ability to look to the future or any vision (it is a Government that has no vision, in fact). Among these measures are also those on Alitalia, as was mentioned a moment ago. What does the decree-growth law on Alitalia provide? Meanwhile the MEF enters the new company as a member, with everything it entails, and then cancels the obligation to repay the financing of 900 million euros. Mr Missa said well just now: this actually means putting your hands in the pockets of the Italians. I remember very well that the first act of this legislature was exactly the adoption of a decree-law on Alitalia. A year ago, we listened to the company's commissioners, who came to us and said: "Be quick, as you discuss, you risk running out of fuel and the planes risk remaining on the ground, with fatal consequences, because the airlines essentially hold on to trust. It is enough that once those who bought a ticket cannot leave, because the flight has been cancelled or because there is no fuel, that the effects are deadly on the company. Instead a year has passed and you are still looking for a newCo partner to put 40% of the capital (something like 300 million). We've also heard some sort of extemporaneous auto-candidate, but this partner isn't here. Member - I tell the Government - who should be able to submit a request according to the rules of the market; not a member who should be asked by the Government to enter the newCo. But even in this field, as on others, you are full of contradictions and climbing on mirrors. First, force Ferrovie dello Stato - because the strong term is "constricted" - to enter the capital of Alitalia putting at risk the financial estate of an active company, one of the real pride of this country. Let's hope it's a right choice and that it doesn't take Ferrovie dello Stato instead into the abyss. Then you say yes to Atlantia in Alitalia, despite you feel Benetton and Atlantia the absolute evil and despite you have put in the unblocking yards a paragraph - a little' improved by an amendment of the Democratic Party, to my first signature - that goes against the basic rules of the right, exactly to favor the termination of Autostrade from Atlantia. So is Atlantia a reliable partner to get into Alitalia or is it the absolute evil to drive out of Autostrade? Decide. The same contradiction exists on the current debate on the TAV. Minister Toninelli still tries today to explain that there is a fundamental difference between notices and expressions of interest. That's not true, both of them can be revoked at no cost to the state. No TAV-Yes TAV: we heard Deputy Minister Castelli talk about TAV light. Here - alas - I have to agree with Minister Salvini, who says that there is no TAV in nature that is not a fast train, because the contradiction is in the same terms. The risk is that, while you linger in such discussions, not only do you not get fuel to Alitalia's planes, but you don't get any propulsion to the country car and the country freezes. We'll try not to allow it to happen. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u57	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, how else to define this decree-law if not your review of reparation in an attempt to remedy the failure of a budget law that has not had the desired effects? A hope, yours, which was widely predictable would have been misplaced: because you bet everything, all the money of the Italians, on two measures that had nothing to do with growth. I am referring, of course, to the income of citizenship and to the 100th share, two flagship measures of this Government, which, according to your estimates, had to guarantee an increase of 1.5% of GDP. Unfortunately, today even the rocks know that the growth of the country not only will not respect that delirious forecast, but it will be zero or 0-0.1%. The accounts are done in the end, you will say, but from now on we can say without fear of denial that poverty has not been abolished, despite the miraculous announcement from the balcony, and neither has that turnover between older workers who have retired and younger workers who, according to your promises, should have replaced them. It wasn't and couldn't have been. Citizenship income was such a failure that even only one in three of the navigators admitted to the selection tests came to the competition to support them. We have already asked for this with acts of inspection union and we will continue to ask the Government, in particular the Minister of Labour and Economic Development: how many Italians in poverty have really received the income of citizenship? How much was the actual amount? How many returned the card because they felt fooled by the government, not receiving at all the figure of 780 euros promised, but sometimes even a begging of 45-50 euros monthly? How many smart people have been found to collect their citizenship income without being entitled to it, perhaps being black workers? They were sentenced to a six-year prison sentence, as you had threatened and campaigned? How many immigrants received their citizenship income? [[Comments of Senator Pellegrini Marco.]] At the moment you do not know or probably do not want to answer these questions, but sooner or later you will have to do so and we will press you so that the Italians know the truth. Recapitulating: the Government has failed to bring growth to the country with the budget law and now tries again with a special decree growth, with the breath on the neck of the threat of the infringement procedure and unfortunately of the dramatic data Istat. But how can one think that, where one has not been able to give impetus to growth with the large sums that you had in the budget law, will instead focus the objective with the few resources of the growth decree? They are absolutely insufficient figures to restart the country, especially since they are divided into several small sectoral measures, which have transformed this decree-law into a sort of omnibus, without head or tail, without a project for Italy. You have started from the 51 articles of the decree-law and you have reached the 120 articles of the text that we are debating today; only 27 of them, however, carry concrete spending commitments and even are not immediate spending commitments but will take place in 2023, when perhaps, as we hope, there will be no more this Government. A decree-law must have the requirements of necessity and urgency, but if then the decisions you make today will take effect only in four years' time, then these requirements will fail, so it is a scam. What unfortunately does not fail, however, is the guillotine that families and businesses have on their necks, represented by the 23 billion euros in 2020 and the 28 billion euros in 2021 that the Government will have to find in order to prevent the release of the safeguard clauses and therefore the increase of the VAT. Where will you find the resources to prevent the increase in VAT and the resources to avoid the infringement procedure for excessive debt? As I said, your two flag measures, citizenship income and 100 share, even in terms of the number of recipients who benefited from it, have not had the positive impact that you hoped and believed. This should involve a sum of about 2 billion euros less burdens; however, these are resources in deficit compared to those anticipated, money that had to be invested in growth, while the government parties would like to put their hands on finance probably other electoral measures that will not increase either GDP or employment. It is clear that in the case of this and the other measures, it is only smoke thrown into the eyes of the Italians to try to distract them from the fundamental question: the total lack of a single and coherent vision of development by the two shareholders of the Government; two irreconcilable political forces, which have completely different programs. In fact, the stated objective of the 5 Star Movement is the happy decline, while the League's program is - or should be - the one that it has signed with the other parties of the center-right before the political elections, but that unfortunately does not see the light, if not to some extent in the matter of security and immigration, and that is totally obscured by the pre-eminence of the grill over measures of an economic nature. On the lack of growth and policies for work the Government has managed to agree even Confindustria and trade unions, unanimous in denouncing the inadequacy of the measures put in place. Moreover, the attitude of the triggers towards the world of business and work is punitive, because the 5 Stars prefer poor and unemployed citizens, to be easily deluded by welfare measures such as the income of citizenship, rather than citizens who, having an economic independence, also have political independence, not being blackmailed by the alms of the State. Italy needs to grow but it needs right ideas and people; ideas such as re-launching infrastructure, great works, not like the block of the TAV; ideas such as de-taxation for new recruits, especially in the less-favoured areas of the South, not as the income of nothingness; ideas such as investments in health care, with the cancellation of the number closed for access to medical and surgical faculties and the intake of doctors and nurses, not the cuts in health. I ask you, gentlemen of the government: have you noticed that every time statistics come out it is a Caporetto for your policies? And she's a Caporetto, unfortunately, all over Italy. We at Forza Italia, in the electoral program shared by the center-right, insisted on the introduction of flat tax. Unfortunately, however, as Istat has now certified, taxes are increasing even more than GDP, because in the first quarter of the year the tax burden has risen by 0.3%, while if all goes well, GDP will increase by 0.1% throughout the year. In conclusion, in order to grow, not only the decree-laws are needed, but above all they serve abilities and will, qualities that unfortunately are scarce in this Government. I am sure that many of my colleagues in the majority feel the same way, but the government will soon be asking for confidence, so you want a closed box vote. The review of the reparation that you have tried, in order to remedy a wrong budget law, unfortunately for Italy has had a negative outcome and you have been rejected. Consequently, we shall vote against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u59	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, representatives of the Government, I rise in this debate with great pleasure to comment on the decree-law containing urgent measures for economic growth; together with the decree unblocking yards, already approved, are the two measures by which the majority intends to relaunch the path of economic development of our country. We at the League have very clear what our country needs for a real economic recovery, that is a courageous tax reform that involves a serious cut in taxes and that allows the recovery of domestic consumption in order to revive the economy, putting money back into circulation. The most worrying recession is the demographic one: the birth block is the real drama of our country. Precisely because the future of our children and of Italy comes before the constraints decided by others, the reduction of taxes will be our final goal. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Meanwhile with the growth decree we intervene on the guidelines of action that concern, on the one hand, the strengthening of public and private investments and, on the other, the implementation of incentives and tax reliefs to companies and citizens, including the strengthening of the protection of the made in Italy. Among others, I would like to mention some key measures of the decree-law, such as the re-introduction of the greater depreciation for new capital goods: a facility that allows to increase by 30% the cost of acquisition, for tax purposes, of investments in new capital goods. Then there is the increase in the deductibility of the Imu for companies, which reduces the tax burden on the companies themselves: the deductibility will reach 70% in 2022 and will reach 100% in 2023. A noteworthy intervention is also represented by the definition of mini-Ires. Indeed, in order to facilitate the capitalisation of companies, the benefit-benefit mechanism has been simplified through the application of a reduced rate on non-distributed profits. Unlike the current legislation, which provides for a 9% reduction on specific incremental investments compared to the past, the amendment provides for a simple reduction in the rate on non-distributed profits - within the limits of the increase in equity, excluding banks - linked to the re-utilisation of the same. Equally important is the planned reduction in premiums and contributions for compulsory insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases, i.e. INAIL contributions, now foreseen for the years 2019 and 2020. With regard to public investment, we act by accelerating the use of resources already allocated to private investments, removing regulatory constraints, remodulating appropriations and encouraging public and private research. The objective of public investment is to boost public expenditure, which has been progressively reduced for more than ten years. For this reason, interventions are planned on the procedures for the realization of the works aimed at using resources already allocated and the allocation to the municipalities of 500 million euros for small investments of rapid execution aimed at the safety of the infrastructures, the buildings and the energy efficiency. Article 7b is very important for small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector because it provides for specific conditions of access to the special section of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. The crisis in the construction sector has reduced the rating of banks for these companies, putting them in difficulty for access to credit. One of the most important measures is the bonus earthquake, in order to facilitate anti-seismic interventions even for real estate owned by persons who do not have the liquidity necessary to anticipate such expenses, it is extended to areas 2 and 3 of seismic risk, while today it is only planned for the buildings of zone 1. This benefit allows the tax deduction of 75 percent in case of improvement of an energy classification class and 85 percent of the purchase price of the property unit in case of passage of two classes. The growth decree favours a series of tax reliefs and incentives and to revive private investments, provides rules for the protection of the made in Italy and other measures for the support of the growth. These are all measures that have always been hoped for by this majority and which are finally being implemented today. The decree-law represents for us an opportunity for growth and recovery of the economy. Before concluding, President, in terms of growth I would like to remind you of the beautiful victory of the award of the Olympics 2026 in Milan-Cortina. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is the result of the great work done by those who have always believed in this goal. The regional administrations of Veneto and Lombardy, led by Zaia and Fontana, received the right recognition of the great work done and for having believed in it to the end. Compliments go also to the two mayors of the cities Ghedina and Sala for having shared efforts and enthusiasm, but fundamental was the contribution of Giancarlo Giorgetti in having managed to involve the Government in this wonderful adventure, which allowed to shout to victory all Italy, which from this event can find the inspiration and enthusiasm to start the whole country again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I can only express all my joy at the great opportunity that this event can give our country. The international sporting events are a possibility of development and growth for the country if thought and planned as opportunities for construction and upgrading of infrastructure that can be used and requalified for everyday civil use. This was precisely the extra march that made possible the victory of our country. It is therefore not only an event that once again brings prestige and prestige to Italy, but also a possibility of developing a sustainable plan that will increase employment and consumption, not only until the event is realized, leaving good fruits usable and tangible to all citizens. Finally, I would like to stress the attention the League has to citizens and businesses. The measure is proof of this because it will allow us to achieve the objective of meeting the needs of Italians and our companies, in the hope that we can recreate a relationship of trust between the State and the citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u61	Mr President, I continue to be uncomfortable in intervening in this House on measures that we cannot deal with and deepen in the Commission. This is a measure, Mr President, which was thought of by the Government in April, which has been in force since May and comes to the House without rapporteurs: it is a fact that finds no explanation, no procedural logic and no common sense. I keep surprising myself as a newly elected man: I feel this rite tired of complaining about discounted things. This is a measure that we are discussing here in this House, but not in its content. Some interventions magnify the results, but the title leaves us absolutely perplexed, incredulous. The decree-law is defined as "growth" but neither would the dictionary of the synonyms and the opposites, since the same majority has elaborated a Document of economy and finance, with which it attributes to the measure under consideration, in conjunctural with the decree unblocks yards (not alone), the 0.1% of growth. So, Mr President, forgive me, but I believe that calling it growth is a sort of misappropriation of a term that I would use for others and much more motivated measures. And God knows if we really needed a measure of growth and that he really put his hands on the fundamentals of our economy according to a shared plan. I would like to say one thing about mini-BOTs, having dealt with economics almost always, even if - it is clear - at very low levels (I do not subscribe to the category of phenomena; there are other phenomena here). It seems crazy and it seems absurd, but from my point of view the idea of mini-BOTs, in its extraordinary simplicity, is smarter, because at least, if implemented, it would put in circulation some money, some liquidity and presumed or real wealth. Much of the money that circulates is electronic money, so it's fake money. Therefore, in its absurdity, as proposed, launched and thought, the idea of mini-BOTs still makes sense. He tells a story and says: we put in the pocket of the Italians a little'money with reference to the debts of the public administration unpaid and the credits that the companies wait to collect from the public administration and that they are late to be cashed. But there is nothing in this provision that concerns this aspect. There is a mix, a soup, a pot-pourri of things: it seems like someone in the morning after the coffee at the bar passes to Palazzo Chigi and says "you need this or that"; then there is some good secretary who takes note, puts down something and maybe every ten or fifteen days at the Council of Ministers arrives the shopping list and sets up a measure. Sorry, that's exactly what happens in this provision. Last week we discussed the Calabria decree and the same thing happened: only for a short stretch of the measure we talked about Calabria, but for the rest we put everything in (the usual secretary noted measures that probably served). Within this measure there are common rules and standards that are not acceptable, but are not growth. It's not what the title says: maybe I'm out of place, I don't doubt it, but I feel like I'm going against the hand in a street where everyone else goes in the opposite direction. But what good is it to have a measure with a term that has absolutely nothing to do with it? What is the point of applauding interventions that say nothing and that state apodiptically that this measure will favor growth, when the Government itself launches a DEF and says that, together with the unblocking yards, this decree-law will increase the economy by 0.1 percent? You say it, the representatives of the government say it. But how can we read, moreover, written interventions that to some extent affirm the impossible? I remind everyone that what we say in here is recorded and filmed, which will remain for posterity. The other day, out of curiosity, I went to see the story of the senator in whose name I live. He is a late nineteenth-century senator named Felice Napoleone Canevaro and in the archives of the Senate there are his speeches; therefore, colleagues, all the darts you say will remain there. Those will remain for the posterity. It will remain for posterity that you and your Government tell us that this is a decree that increases, together with another decree, the GDP of Italy by 0.1 percent! Get it over with. Be honest with yourself. When writing the speeches, read them before reading them in the Chamber. I deal with health, I am a member of the Health Commission, President, where we have dealt with this decree-law... PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Change your job! Mr Zaffini (FdI). Yes, read them. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Mr Zaffini (FdI). You're right, ma'am. I deal with health care and do you know what this decree-law does with the resources to be allocated to health building? And it's not that we don't need to modernise hospitals in this country, it's not that we don't need to redo much of the South's nosocomi or buy sanitary equipment. It is not that you do not know, colleagues, that in the South we live five years less than in the North. You have all been elected to the South, you have won in all the colleges of the South. Do you know that the people you represent are five years younger than those who live in Lombardy? Do you know that? [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Do you know that the Italian industrial system lies in the North and pollutes the whole North? No, you don't. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Talk to the president! Mr Zaffini (FdI). Well, Mr President, do you know what this measure does? This measure takes the money - but a lot of money - that was destined for the years 2019, 2020 and 2021 and what does it do, my friends, fellow senators? He moved them, extending the terms, to spend them not now, but in 2022, 2023, 2024 and 2025. In my house, I don't tell you what it's called, because I'm ashamed, because it stays in the Senate, and I don't tell you everything, because then someone's going to read it tomorrow. Before I came to the Senate, before I became a regional councillor, I worked at the bank and sometimes came those who said they had a check that expired after two days and asked me to bring the deadline to a week or fifteen days later. You guys do the same... buffets. That's what they call what they do. Senator enough, talk to me and don't use certain terms. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] But I turn to the person who wrote the measure, Mr. President. In my home it is defined as who takes today's money - indeed today's debts, because they are promises of money - and brings them to 2024, 2025 and 2026. I do not know, Mr President, I may have used a colorful term, you are right, it remains in the act and all right, but it remains the substance: this is not a measure that leads to any growth. This is a measure that determines nothing: it is a set of measures of which someone - I repeat - is acceptable because it is necessary and because of minimum common sense but that has no organic logic, has nothing to give to the Italians. Someone just said it looks like an end of the legislature. Yeah, eventually, when a guy makes the boxes to go, he finds out he forgot one thing and then another and puts it in the boxes before he takes it away. I hope, I hope, that this is indeed, Mr President, a measure at the end of the parliamentary term. I hope so for all Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, by the end of March it was clear to everyone or - better, almost everyone - that the Government's GDP growth forecast for 2019 would never have been achieved: the most optimistic estimates gave, at most, 0.2%. This meant, however, already in March, the collapse of all the stories told until then. This meant that the salvific measures, so much flattered, beginning with the 100th share and citizenship income, would not have moved the country from stagnation - if it had gone well - or the recession - more likely - into which it had fallen. This government, all propaganda and badge, so what does it do? Bake a new recipe, a catch-like solution, and call it decree-law growth. A legislative initiative which, in fact - and it is the Government itself who says so and not me - is very easily weighed down, because it admits that it increases the rate of GDP growth - think a little - by 0.05%. And you put it, black on white, in the DEF: 0.05 percent! In this regard, the proportion of your initiative is enlightening, taking as an example a common thing: a euro coin. Your 0.05% growth is those five cents of copper, those small coins that don't even allow us to get coffee from the machine. I wonder, then, what idea of growth this Government has and how it can define growth? Will your communicative maquillage ever perform miracles on what, in fact, is a decree-law born without ideas? A decree-law that has dragged, from the beginning, between Palazzo Chigi and MEF so tired as to make it necessary to make it deliberate twice by the Council of Ministers, because, after its announcement, it had matured too late compared to its publication in the Gazette. Today, this delay is humiliating. The decree-law expires, in fact, on June 29, a little more than the day after tomorrow, and the Senate is called to express itself in a very rapid time, in spite of the more than eighty-three days since its baptism in press conference. This way of proceeding - which is not the first time we have recorded, particularly here in the Senate - by those who shouted at the risk of dictatorship for the compression of parliamentary processes, is, to say the least, inconsistent. And if we move on to the content, the judgment becomes even worse. Among all of us, I would like to draw our attention, to the attention of this House, to the shameful robbery, to the dexterity of theft, to the development and cohesion funds, and to the equally dishonorable payment of some sort of ransom. Both facts that have been carried out in the House; all for the use and consumption of a Minister for the South who, first, thought well not to show up for the Commission's work and then stunned because, in fact, he felt his chair as Minister for the Commission. It has been an exchange of balances and interests, all on the part of the citizens of our Mezzogiorno, which has turned the institutions towards an embarrassing and truly unacceptable level and has, to date, been perhaps the point of greater exposure of the inadequacy and of the 5-star skittery, on the one hand, and of the predatory logic that the League continues to have towards the South, on the other. The Government, in fact, did not intend to accept our agenda in the Commission, which provided for the Government's commitment to clarify that the resources of the territorial pacts must be used to finance projects that fall within the same territories as those in which the pacts were activated. It was a simple agenda for which Mr Garavaglia, Vice-Minister, did not stand, the reasons for the too short a period of time to comment on the matter. After all, the wolf loses his hair but not his vice and it is not so far the memory of a League that has dissipated the FAS funds of the Mezzogiorno, using them as ATMs. I could go on, but I will finish, as the President calls me to respect the times. I believe that this Government also measures this measure and demonstrates its inadequacy. I think that, for the sake of the country, as soon as possible you will stop doing damage, the sooner we will probably gain as a country in terms of trust, but also of international credibility. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u64	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat things that have already been said by my colleagues, particularly by Senator Galliani and also in part by Senator Perosino on the various articles of this decree-law, which are in some respects also acceptable. I would like to make a few more political reflections which I hope will make us reason together, also with a view to the next financial manoeuvre. I would have expected an act of greater courage in this decree of growth. On the contrary, I have not found in this measure, which has a very evocative name in the word "growth", nothing that goes in the direction of truly supporting the growth of GDP of our country. We've been freaking out pretty much since 2007, since the financial bubble year, and we're not growing up at all. The last decades of real growth have been those Fifty-Sixty and Eighty-ninety; since then our country has basically no longer grown. We are late because we should already have put in place a series of measures just after the financial bubble, after 2007-2008, but we do not lose courage. You know what's missing from this decree? We really do not have a framework in which, with courage, I repeat, we should have included a series of measures which really supported growth in concrete terms and which I am going to list very quickly. Savings and investment are two parameters that need to be correlated in the economy. We know perfectly well how much savings are growing in our country: as evidenced by the latest data Istat, investments are not related to savings. Let us then try to think about the instruments of democratisation of finance, the so-called private banking, which can be included in this reflection. I am referring to venture capital, private equity, club deal, individual savings plans (PIR). In this sense I see absolutely nothing. Much is being discussed about the RIPs, but no concrete proposals are being made to put finance in support of the real economy. However, there is an important part of financial assets in Italy that would be ready - precisely because today the managements do not make anything - to be addressed to the so-called productive investments and therefore to support the real economy. I've read these days that Cassa Depositi e Prestiti is redesigning its financial architecture. Certainly the actions he has always done in support of private equity and venture capital will continue to exist: if I have read correctly, we are talking about about EUR 1 billion. Then there will be the new innovation fund of 700 million euros, which we hope will truly be addressed to an economic sector on which we can bet a growth of our country that stands at around 1% and not at 0.1 or 0.2 percent (we do not know if it will be 0.3, but it is of little importance). We need to rethink growing around one percent. So do we really believe that we are investing without dispersing resources on so many investments that are not strategic? We must focus everything on the fifth industrial revolution, on fifth generation technologies and on artificial intelligence, which is central to the real economy. I hope that there will be an in-depth reflection on this. Alas I see here again, in this decree-law, of the announcements (we support the made in Italy, we support tourism), moreover with the formulas Rocambolese that further emphasize the bureaucracy, the one that has penalized over the last thirty years the growth of the enterprise, the only real social elevator on which we must bet. In fact, there in capital, work and today also the data fed by finance as a generator of wealth can support important growth. I say important, because today thinking of 1% growth means thinking that GDP can grow in an important and significant way. The enterprise is that place where work, innovation, well-being and inclusion can again be four words united, while in the public opinion they are now totally disjoined and cannot be pronounced together. Instead they must return to be pronounced together within the corporate organization and within the small and medium-sized enterprise, the one that has made our country great. This enterprise, it is true, also has some limits; this must be said and I say it as an entrepreneur. We often do not think about generational replacement and we do not even have a particular culture for financial instruments. Instead, this culture should mature, precisely because we must not be totally dependent on credit, but we must start to think that finance can support the production of wealth that we generate within our businesses. What do I think the government should do with the opposition? Let's think about what was the success of the Olympics: when we work together on the big projects we are winning and show that our country is ambitious, is great and can do it. We must strongly support Made in Italy and small and medium-sized enterprises; what I defined a year ago, in an intervention that I had made on tourism and made in Italy, the Italian creative industry. How do we support these companies? We support them with technologies, which we need to develop with a country project, because the individual company does not make it. I would like to say to those who have supported very much the 4.0 that it is exceeded: we are already at 5.0. All right, we have included these measures again, but look at the fact that those measures were good for large companies, not for small and medium-sized enterprises. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed, Senator Tiraboschi. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). I conclude with one last thought: let us look at the East, because the Asians are 4.5 billion, while the Americans are only 350 million. The market to which the entrepreneurial class is looking is therefore that there. It is a market that is difficult to penetrate, but it is a market that we can penetrate if we really and convincingly support what we have been talking about for a long time and on which it is now debating: I am referring to the Belt and road initiative, where other countries (France and Germany) have crept in and have ridden in silence (making their cabbages, to be very clear). Now is the time, given this privileged relationship we have with China (the fact that the Chinese Premier has come here proves this)... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Get it done. TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). I shall conclude, Mr President. In a strategic vision, let's evaluate this market. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u66	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u67	Mr President, before moving on to the subject of my speech, which will be Article 24 on the Agency for the Development of Irrigation and Land Transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia, I would just like to point out, precisely at the mathematical-statistical level, that a decree that speaks of growth and that, coupled with another, promises a declared growth of 0.1 per cent is called statistical error, that is, it is irrelevant: writing +0.1 or -0.1 per cent would have exactly the same meaning. [[Comments of Senator Matrisciano]] That being said, the second point concerns the privatisation or non-privatisation of the irrigation agency. The first consideration that must be made to correct some of the statements made is that it is not true that we cannot compete with the distribution of water because the pipe is unique: the same irrigation and reclamation consortia do it constantly on the works of derivation, uptake and adduction by concluding what are called conventions of couso of the artifact: couso of the cross, couso of the gates, couso of the same channel, couso of the closed conduct, waiting then, for hydraulic purposes, that it is a channel with free hair or that is a closed conduct is completely irrelevant. The other example is related to the ordered flow of electrons in the electrical duct: no electron has the label, yet there is a perfect competition for which so many operators can use the same infrastructure, the same electrical duct or electrical pipeline. So, unfortunately, that is not true either, but I do not want to be a cheap professor who goes to correct what someone else said and then that other one will go to correct what I said. I would like to point out that among all that could be done in the revision of the situation of the Agency for the Development of Irrigation and Land Transformation in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia (EIPLI), one could, for example, foresee a society totally in house, without the stew that had been done at the time, because the agency for the services it provides had to remain a single body, removed from the individual control of the Regions. Secondly, it had to remain a body governed by public law, but instead it becomes a SpA, falling precisely in the book V, Title V, of the civil code, for which the amendment Daga would foresee the impossibility by private shareholders to take over shares in the capital of this SpA; I am talking about shares and not quotas because in the case of a SpA we talk about shares and not quotas. In this regard, I would like to point out that this amendment does not exclude the possibility of new share issues, so that another entity can become part of the capital without taking over any action in the possession of the shareholders envisaged, which will be the Regions (I say this just to clarify this point). Moreover, while it is true that a public SpA may not have as its sole purpose the remuneration of the capital, I would point out that, as professors of mathematics teach, any statement we call proposition or theorem for which at least one counter example is found is destitute of foundation, worth nothing, is fake. Consequently, at a time when I find a counter-example that disassembles the previous statement I have mathematically established that that statement becomes false: Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, which falls in this case, has been asked an extraordinary grant of 959 million euros to assert from the reserves, so at any time the participants can ask for an extraordinary dividend, which I can call as they want, and the principle for which it is not distributed useful comes to fall. I would remind you that Banca d'Italia, which is a body governed by public law, has used its reserves on a legislative mandate to re-evaluate the shares, so at any time it is possible to override this rule. In conclusion, the spirit of the referenda questions that spoke of public water referred to two points: the first was to repeal the rule that allowed the private to enter the management, the second was to abolish the remuneration of the capital. At the time of creating the opportunity to pay the capital because a SpA was set up, one of the two referenda questions was materially violated, which were voted only by 25 million people. Therefore this is not a privatisation, but it represents a series of doors open at the entrance of the private in the management. Here too there is the usual distinction between ownership and management: water is a state property and management is distinct. No: if the aim is that the water must not be profited, that is, it must be declared good without economic importance as we all once said, then this principle is totally violated and this is the thing that absolutely must be rejected and for which all the rest of the decree-law, of course, must not be considered, beyond the paper that it has committed, because it is enough Article 24 to say that it is inadmissible. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u69	Mr President, before we begin, given that you are quite right to make the deadlines met, I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. Dear colleagues, economic growth and infrastructure: these are the two pillars around which the Government and this majority have built the vision of a country. A clear indication of how economic recovery can actually be activated only by incisive action on these two areas. The so-called unblocking decree was the first step. Now is the time to act on a number of elements that will lead to substantial growth in different areas and sectors. First of all, economic growth cannot be divided by industrial growth, which has always been the engine of our economy. Obviously I did not mention the decree unblocking yards because the two measures are necessarily two pieces of the same mosaic. The industrial recovery passes also and above all through the revival of the great useful works. That's not all it takes, though. A mechanism, although well oiled, needs all the gears to work. For this reason, today, the text arrives in the Senate at our examination. There are many interventions in favour of Italian companies: extension of the super depreciation to 130% for the purchase of material capital goods, revision of the mini-Ires and progressive reduction of the tax rate in the coming years, reduction of the tax burden on the enterprises equipped with instrumental properties thanks to a progressive increase of the percentage deductible from the income of the enterprise and from the professional income of the Imu due on the capital goods. We have bonuses for energy efficiency, we facilitate aggregation between businesses, we increase the fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. I could go on for a long time, but I prefer to focus more on two standards that I care about. In this intervention, I want to thank the Government and the Ministry of Economic Development because it has incorporated in some articles of this decree-law some instances and problems on which I have been working since last year. All this bears witness to the great usefulness of our daily work as parliamentarians, because good ideas and positive proposals, in this majority, have no preconceived preconceptions. The first example in this respect is contained in a small but incisive rule on which I have been committed for a long time, including amendments to the last Stability Act. Finally, a tax credit is introduced for all those Italian companies that want to participate in non-EU trade fairs. It is a first but fundamental step on this issue. Now it will be necessary to identify, in the next Stability Act, other resources to increase the fund allocated to this incentive. Widening the audience of the companies that will be able to benefit from it is fundamental: I remember that export has supported the entire Italian economy in the years of the crisis and allows, to this day, the survival of many companies. Constantly growing, according to Istat data it will reach the figure of 540 billion in 2021. If I look at the data of a sector I care about, that of the ceramic industry, the flagship of the Italian production fabric, 85 percent of the annual turnover comes from export. Precisely for this reason the growth of this sector, as of others, must be supported in order to allow Italian companies to impose themselves in difficult international markets. It is necessary to do what is in our power to enhance and help to best express the potential of our excellences that must be supported with deductions and economic support. Not only that: our products are unique in the world in many production sectors and all too often, in the recent past, we have witnessed abuses if not genuine predatory attitudes. With this decree-law we give the start to the first concrete series of measures aimed at safeguarding our historical brands and the contrast to wild relocations. Companies that produce products or services in Italy in the presence of all the necessary requirements will finally be able to obtain the registration of their brand in the special register of historical brands of national interest. Among other things, the logo "Historical trademark of national interest" is established, which companies registered in the register may use for commercial, distribution and promotional purposes. In this way, there will be more prevention of closures, collective redundancies and relocations. No one will be able to maintain the historic brand if the production site is transferred outside Italy and in addition the company, in case of closure for cessation of activity or relocation, will be obliged to notify to Mise all information related to the business project, to identify all possible solutions to protect the jobs. In this regard, then, we set up a fund for the protection of historical marks of national interest at the Ministry of Economic Development with a budget of 30 million. The most important aspect of this segment of the measure, however, is certainly the battle to defend from barbaric imitations the products that make Italy famous in the world. More and more, Italian companies must take legal action to protect themselves by imposing costs, which sometimes make it difficult to follow this path. For this reason, for national consortia and collective organisations of companies operating in foreign markets we introduce a tax credit of 50% of the expenses incurred for the legal protection of their products, including agri-food ones. Sometimes the border between imitation and counterfeiting is far too labile. The case of Parmesan, moreover, is known to all of us Emilians in particular. For this reason, it is a duty to defend the products made in Italy make their greatness. For a year now, this majority has been painted in blazing shades by bureaucrats in Brussels. Let us leave the words to these policy-makers of rigour and respond with concrete facts. Of course, it would be easy to bow down and align with the European prescriptions and Diktats, but then what would we say to the many Italian citizens and businesses who ask us for reforms to streamline procedures, burn down the public machine and re-launch the country system? Our recipe therefore, to conclude, is the following: value growth, industrial growth, professional growth and growth of the labour market; in short, growth. These are all points on which we have been working for a year, and on which we will continue to work with our heads down; on which points we are very clear on the way forward. At the centre we always place citizens and businesses, who, instead of the word growth, with the past governments have only heard of sacrifices, tears and blood and recession. Today we thin that hood of austerity that has obscured and flattened the country's potential in recent years. From most media our work is not recognized, but we continue decisively and convincingly, before all the general interest of the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u70	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the analysis of this decree-law would have deserved more attention from this House and from the committees of merit. On the other hand, we have seen that the debate on this measure has been the subject of very strong pressure, as some of my colleagues have pointed out, and of a limited discussion in the Commissions meeting, which has not allowed an analysis of the amendments. This is a problem, because we could have contributed to the improvement of a measure that, instead of stimulating growth, will probably not introduce elements that can give depth to a maneuver of revival of the economy of our country. It is a measure that has a limited scope, partial and in some ways confused, with norms that will not determine any turning point for the economic and productive system of our country. Among other things, the country deserved more, thanks also to indicators that highlight the difficulty of our economy: the collapse of investments (less 0.3%) and employment, the worsening of the deficit-GDP ratio (2.5%) and the debt-GDP ratio (133.7 percent). Our country needs real stimuli, while we note the absence of the definition of a strategy both from the economic point of view and of industrial policy. This is a measure that has had a very long gestation, as some of my colleagues have mentioned. On 4 and 23 April the Council of Ministers, by two resolutions, actually dismissed him. A measure resulting from the very strong contradiction between the two main actors of Government, League and 5 Stars, with a contrasting vision of the idea of development that characterizes these two political forces. The result is a measure that, as the attached technical report points out, will produce a very weak boost to the economy: 0.1% for 2019 and 0.3% for 2020. It commits a very low amount of resources: 400 million. Above all, there are a number of rules that are very far-reaching from the point of view of their entry into force. Some measures of the past years are taken (and I would say less badly). I am referring to the relaunch of some of the rules concerning Industry 4.0 and the repositioning of the super depreciation, which has deteriorated compared to the central-left government's measure because a limit of 2.5 million is introduced to investments. But even here I would say: better late than never. It was short-sighted not to think of relaunching this measure before the Stability Act, because it would allow companies to have a year to invest in incentives. Ires has been modified. Here, too, you had to cancel some of the measures that the center-left had put in place - I am referring to the IRI and ACE - which favoured the capitalization of companies and better taxation for corporate income. You had to cancel those measures to cancel our experience as a government and you put an Ires in December that then changed today, introducing a mechanism for which the new Ires rate will go to regime in 2023, in fact not giving a current boost to the economy with a devastation for corporate income. Insert within this provision some norms that have absolutely nothing to do with the development of the country. I refer, for example, to Article 38, known by all of us as saving Rome. In fact, that article does not put an end to the administration of the city of Rome, but opens a sort of safe conduct for the municipalities in disrepair of the cities that have up to 65,000 inhabitants. From this point of view, I think it's a wrong measure, and I say it as a former mayor. There is no doubt that the municipalities have objective difficulties due to changes in the accounts of local authorities in recent years. However, there is no doubt that, in my opinion, a reform of the issues affecting local authorities should have been carried out, starting with the accounts and the fund of dubious debts, which is a trap for local authorities, forced to put aside negative points relating to the difficulties in collecting taxes. So let's do an organic reform that combines autonomy and responsibility and avoid this kind of posthumous lifesaver. This measure is even more serious because it comes from the funds of Industry 4.0. This is well stated in paragraph 1 of Article 38, in which it is pointed out that the funds to cover the outstanding loans of Municipalities capital of the metropolitan cities are taken from the funds of Industry 4.0. We are talking about 35 million per year from 2020 to 2033: check how many resources are being taken from this important measure. Not to mention the Alitalia affair. Also here the Ministry of Economy and Finance is authorized to enter generically into the capital of the company, it goes to cancel the term for the repayment of the loan of 900 million that the State has made to Alitalia and covers part of this loan (650 million) practically drawing the money from the environmental energy services fund. It is basically a leap that will go into the bill of Italian citizens. Then there is the measure concerning the reduction of INAIL premiums; this is a very serious measure because, in 2023, a cut of EUR 600 million will be made, which is not a cut in labour costs, but a reduction in the resources employed for safety at work and training which must protect workers. It's not a cut in labor costs. The cutting of labour costs is done by cutting the Irpef. We did so, for example, with the 80 euros, which were not a tip, but went into the pockets of the Italian workers. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A structural measure, which has lasted for five years and which you will never have the courage to cancel, because you will not know how to explain it to the citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u72	Really finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u73	Mr Grimani (PD). I believe that such a measure does not serve the country; the country needed a much stronger shock. It is not this measure that can give a perspective to our country and its economy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u74	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u75	Mr President, representatives of the Government, all of us want to grow, all of us want Italy to leave this moment of stagnation, all of us want Italy not to risk the infringement procedure, indeed to abjure it. Of course, stagnation and infringement also have a name and a last name, a person responsible. There was a dominant influence here. Growth is not enough to dream of it, it is not enough to propaganda it, but it must be built by method. If we were training an athlete, a runner who had to run an obstacle course or a relay, we wouldn't be surprised to have to give him fundamentals, train him, keep him in shape with an athletic physicist not weighed down, having him follow the advice of the sports doctor, have to tell him not to fight with his teammates, otherwise the relay falls, and maybe to perform properly, if there are external observers and want to upgrade to a better team. These fundamentals, which we take for granted in sport, seem not to apply to Italy, because we eat badly, toxic foods such as the income of citizenship and quota 100, which clogged the state budget, with an increasingly high debt and out of control, which weighs down the physicist of our athlete. The Councils of Observers, both institutional and non-institutional, both internal and external, are waste paper. Spain, Portugal and Ireland, which have followed them and have achieved results, are not considered as virtuous examples; you must be inspired by minority economic theories such as those of the denominator, never applied because already on paper they seemed not to be effective. All this, in metaphor, is truly paradoxical. We have to tell ourselves what the reality is, photograph it. We are not performing: unemployment over 10%, youth over 33, the 133% debt of GDP, growth at 0.2%, spread over 280 basis points, now stable. The propaganda of those who say "but first" is not enough for us anymore. Before you did better than that, now you are doing worse; and even if you did not, you have candidates to change for the better. This is not a change for the better, it is not. We're talking about a growth decree. Those who believe in growth believe in a measure with which to invest; in this case 400 million euros have been invested, which are few. Just to make some terms of comparison, are the share that Veneto and Lombardy invest in the Olympics: two Regions, yes, virtuous, but always two Regions. 400 million for growth, against 7 billion for the decline of citizenship income. This is the investment that is being made on growth and it is already known that it will be unproductive, because it is written in the technical report and in the DEF that the decree growth and the provision unblock yards are worth 0.1% of GDP. So zero. We said: all right, they didn't invest, but at least they designed a framework, a vision for the future, they invested in technology, on the 5.0, infrastructure, on young people and therefore on training, on a new relationship between enterprise and tax. We didn't find any of this. On 4.0 you just restored what was there, without adding a penny. On the infrastructure we are still in the dilemma between TAV yes and TAV no. Not only that: it privatises what the government wanted public, like water, and it nationalizes what it wanted private, like Alitalia. There is a great deal of confusion about motorway infrastructure, because we do not even want to transpose the European directive which recommends keeping a share of private partners in society, in order to make it virtuous (and indeed an agenda has been accepted). The ultimate vision is to buffer the leaks. Carige, Alitalia, Salva Roma, Banca Popolare: they are patches on situations of serious difficulty. For young people little is done, beyond the four articles, which provide niche contributions. We all know that a brain that abroad earns three times what it would earn here, certainly does not return to Italy to have a tax decontribution of 250 euros per month. This is not of interest, but all young people are interested in having opportunities in Italy, equal to the effort, in ability and training, of their own family and of the State. So investment must be made on companies, because it is those who create that growth, that GDP and those resources, which can then be redistributed. There is a lot of talk about simplification and so we could have invested in the data. Now the public administration has millions of data, at the expense of professionals and businesses: 941 million electronic invoices, 750 million data on health costs, 21 million unified payments, 16 million building renovations. These data must be used to make compliance, that is, to make companies do what they know how to do: to stimulate growth, to create work, to produce, to seek and to export. All the rest must be done by the public administration: now it can and no longer has alibi. Let us then admit that even the simplification part that has been introduced is not a real simplification, because we only oiled things that were obvious mistakes and did not work. Let us give examples: we have charged companies with the costs of software, training, e-invoicing and electronic receipt, and we have given six months of sanatorium for sanctions. All right, I'm gonna go live. There are two more days for the issue of the invoice: we could have kept the ten days and it would have been the same. As for the rent rule, the fact that they should not be taxed, if not received, at least for natural persons seemed a basic principle, but we had to write it down. As for the fact that, in the event of a finding, we must make an contradictory, I would say that the opposite would have been counter-intuitive. That, by the professional, I should be given the instructions to make tax returns models in good time for them to be completed, even in this case perhaps a growth decree was not needed to establish it. In order to establish that the synthetic indices of reliability (ISA) should be extended, since the public administration did not give me the data, I do not have access and I do not have the software, perhaps it was not necessary to raise all the categories of Italy. Unfortunately, there is very little in this growth measure - unfortunately - but the serious thing is that companies have also been illusory, because tax measures, which have simply been reintroduced, not only contradict political propaganda, but have not added a penny in favour of companies themselves. Businesses have been illusory, because they want the almost €11 billion of credits they have towards the public administration and want to pay less taxes. Telling them the hoax of mini-BOTs and that the flat tax can be done with the savings of the submerged, is like saying that you want to make the flat tax in deficit. All this for businesses is an infinite damage and, if businesses do not grow, Italy does not grow and if Italy does not grow, the Government does not redistribute. President. - I invite you to conclude, Senator Conzatti. You're out of time. CONZACTS (FI-BP). Those who want growth cannot trust you. But you will ask for confidence: we are to the ninth trust in the Chamber of Deputies and the fourth in the Senate, in homage to the propaganda of the last legislature. Who wants growth can only do one thing, that is to work for better times and we are working. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u76	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u77	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow senators, Decree-Law No. 34 of 2019 contains urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations through fiscal measures for growth, rules for the relaunch of private investments, provisions for the protection of Made in Italy and further interventions for growth. The measure has been under consideration by the House of Deputies for almost two months and is now in the Senate's attention for a time insufficient to ensure a correct dialectic between Parliament and the Executive. Compared to the need to combine the demands of economic development with those of work and the need to promote industrial development compatible with the diversified territorial needs, the expectations generated by this decree remain largely disregarded, in particular, due to the low economic growth for the current year and the absence of an overall view on the measures to be taken. There was also no real comparison on how to support domestic consumption, increase wages, create new jobs, invest in training and new skills. I have tabled amendments and agendas on agricultural rigs, drilling, 5G technology, wind power and the privatisation of public water. Only a few agendas have been accepted, others like recommendations and others have not yet been taken into account because now the real examination of government measures is left, alas, to one branch of Parliament. I would like to focus - as my colleague has done - on an important amendment and on some unaccepted agendas concerning water as a public good. In 2011 26 million Italians, including 270,000 lucans, declared themselves in favour of public water by winning a referendum. What does public water mean, however, seems to be unclear in this House. To the institutional representatives who claim that water remains of the citizens I would like to remind them that it makes no sense to talk about public water if the manager becomes a private person and at any time can even give to others its function of water management, water resource and sources. Water management, in fact, is in itself a natural monopoly in that both the reserves that provide the good that the works that allow its use are closely linked to a specific territory and, if the local manager operates under a monopoly and non-competitive regime, it goes without saying that privatising the manager is, in fact, the equivalent of privatising water as well. And if, as in this case, the manager operates on an area of great territorial extension such as Puglia, Basilicata and part of Campania, the situation becomes even more serious. This provision realizes the fraudulent phenomenon of privatisation and, that is, the transfer of a state property of absolute and primary importance such as water from a public body (even if SpA for more than a year), required to pursue public interests, to a society that will now be deprived, both with state participation, which is held according to the civil code to pursue the interests of the members and not those of the Italian people. It should not be forgotten that, in accordance with Article 144 of the environmental code, namely Legislative Decree No 152 of 2006, water is considered a state property belonging to the sovereign people and that, being out of trade, cannot be sold to a private society. The distribution of water, according to the Constitution, must also be in public hands. In fact, there is no private company, even if it is owned by territorial authorities or ministries, that is able to implement the discipline that the aforementioned Article 144 of the environmental code establishes for the management of water. If the managing entity consists of a company whose purpose is only economic profit, the pursuit of objectives of general interest will become increasingly impossible and, however, certainly recessive compared to the private economic interest. While it is true that the Agency for the Development of Irrigation and Land Processing in Puglia, Lucania and Irpinia (EIPLI) is already a SpA for more than a year, the amendment Daga does not aim to close a breach, but introduces a legal framework that opens a motorway to private individuals. It is not understood otherwise why his bill wanted by the Italian Forum of Water Movements that lies in the drawers of the House is stranded. In Article 24 all previous forecasts are confirmed, demonstrating the complete subalternity to market logics that have somewhat marked the last twenty-five years of policies on local public services and, in particular, on water management. The entry of the management system into the minefield of public limited companies, where it operates in full market regime regardless of ownership of quotas, will create for the management of a public good such as water a vulnus for the survival of man. Consequently, this privatisation conflicts with several articles of the Constitution, including Article 1, which states that sovereignty is the responsibility of the people. I would also like to remind you that on several occasions the Holy Father has affirmed the recognition of access to drinking water as a right that derives from human dignity, therefore incompatible with the conception of water as any commodity. This amendment therefore makes little sense. It seems that the intention is more to introduce the ban in order to lighten a transition from the public to the private one and then one tomorrow, with a first useful measure, to make possible the extension to the entrance of the private ones. What should be, however, rather than the strict definition of the statutory aspects, is to provide for the constitutionalization of the prohibition of passage to private individuals of the shares of the SpA, in order to prevent the above-mentioned proposal of law Daga from losing priority, as well as to secure the concept that water is a state property and therefore public, with public and non-profit purposes that belong to a SpA. A provision is therefore needed to prevent private individuals from entering the SpA and this is only possible with a constitutional rule. The concept of water as a public good must be included in the Constitution, so that it applies to all water management bodies. I will shortly present a constitutional bill to that effect. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u78	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u79	Mr President, when the news came that the Government wanted to present the so-called growth decree, we welcomed it with great satisfaction, because our need is precisely to intervene on the growth of this country. Unfortunately then he arrived in written form and we could read the 110 articles of which he is composed and we realized that, except for the title that certainly embodies the needs of Italians and Italy, there was absolutely nothing of growth. In addition, we have made another consideration: the Government, by presenting this growth decree, in fact denies itself, because - I remind this House, but I believe that all colleagues have it well in mind - the Government up to a month ago argued that all the measures provided for in the budget law and which have been defended by the entire Executive, I would say with even greater passion by the competent Minister, guaranteed a growth of 1% of GDP. We of Brothers of Italy have always known that this was not possible. None of us believed that the measures contained in the budget law could increase our nation by 1%. Now with the growth decree - as I said before - the government has denied itself, because it has understood that it needed to do much more to support growth, but also this time it has missed a great opportunity. In fact, that the growth decree is disappointing not only we say so of Brothers of Italy or other oppositions, but it is the same DEF that certifies it, providing that the provision, together with the decree unblocks yards, will contribute to the growth of GDP for the current year for 0.1 percent. What does this mean? It means that, in addition to the growth forecasts of current legislation of 0.1, Italy in 2019 is expected to show an overall increase in GDP of just 0.2 percent of GDP. This means that the forecasts that the government had made and the magnificent - as they told us - budget law lead to a growth of 0.2 percent. What will this mean for our nation? It will continue to keep Italy as the growth taillight of the whole of Europe. The great government of change, therefore, has in fact reproduced in the form of the economic recipes of the past: to make more current shopping and above all to make it in deficit. We have always said that the deficit does not concern us so much, but we are concerned about why money is spent on deficits. I make a comparison as a mother of the family: if I do not do it tomorrow because I want to send my son to a university to follow a master's degree, what I contract is a right debt; if instead I get into debt to send my son on vacation, I think I would not be a good mother. It is a simple comparison, which I need, however, to make clear the attitude that this Government has. Italy would need anything else to restart, because in the decree-law under consideration there is nothing that it would need. Brothers of Italy has always said what is needed in order to restart this nation: first of all it needs a great fiscal shock, which for now we see no trace of. Today we are pleased that an agenda of Brothers of Italy has been adopted, which I hope the Government will take into account, on incremental flat tax. This is an agenda that does not involve costs because it provides, for those who submitted a tax return of EUR 50,000 last year and this year a EUR 70,000, to pay a flat tax of EUR 20,000 of 15%. We are happy about this, even if it is not that fiscal shock which - I remember - was the first point of the electoral programme of the whole centre-right, including the League, for the general elections. There was no difference between us and the League, because even for the League it was one of the qualifying points with which it presented itself in front of the Italians in order to have the votes. We will see if sooner or later the flat tax or flat tax will arrive and if it will be as disappointing as this growth decree. There is absolutely no need, in this measure, even for all those tangible and intangible investments to modernise Italy. I would remind you that to all of us and to all Italian citizens the fact of having outdated infrastructures and not having modernised them involves a cost of about 70 billion euros per year. In the growth decree, which would have really contributed to the growth of our nation, there is no measure aimed at reducing bureaucracy and we know that it is one of those elements that block more precisely the growth of Italy than others and, moreover, very much discourages all those who want to do business in our country. I would also like to refer today to a subject which has seen a major debate in the Commissions meeting 6a and 10a, namely Ilva. I want to bring this up again because it demonstrates the lack of vision of an industrial policy of our nation. Ilva is the plastic representation of why entrepreneurs, businesses, important companies from the rest of the world cannot come and invest in our nation. I remember that there is not only Ilva: in the Industry Commission we have about 180 open industrial crises and what is the vision of Minister Di Maio? It's a vision that makes your arms fall, a welfare vision like that of citizenship income. His recipe for solving industrial crises is called social shock absorbers. This leaves the people who belong to the royal country to be based on. How can a minister have the vision of an industrial plan if he speaks only and exclusively of social shock absorbers? We are very concerned about this, but another matter also gives us concern to the same extent. Yesterday we saw that the reason why many companies do not invest in our nation is the lack of legal certainty: the contracts that sign the companies that come to our country to bring money, to invest, become rag paper. So everything in a contract is denied. Retroactive laws are being made. It takes away what was important in defining the acquisition of that industry as if it were nothing. I believe that those who know about it, those who do business or have studied these matters, know that legal certainty is absolutely fundamental. I would like to close, Mr President, by saying that this should be called a reverse decree, because we are going back on a lot of points. We're going back to Alitalia. We're going back on the water. I remember that a referendum had been held not to privatise water. Instead, in this decree-law of reverse, it opens again to privatization. I think it's really nothing, it's fresh water. I understand that for this government, to be together - I always imagine on the issue of Ilva - the need to digest a bite like what the Movimento 5 Stars imagined to be a playground, while instead it is a steel mill, represents a very long step. This growth decree leaves us, therefore, surely grounded, as Italians, as Brothers of Italy, because, unfortunately, we do not see the future from the point of view of growth and industrial policies. I conclude by saying that we are in the economic crisis that has hurt Italy and the Italians for twelve years, and that it is worse than a war because, after a dramatic event, there is always a reconstruction. Here we are in the twelfth year of crisis and we do not know how to give a future to companies or workers. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u80	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u81	Mr President, we must take this opportunity to stress the great work done by my colleagues and other colleagues in the opposition. There are at least three rules which, as far as I am concerned, must be made subject to further dialectic light, which make it clear that work has been done almost backwards. There is - for example - the rule concerning INAIL premiums and contributions in relation to human resources employed in our work system. It is inconceivable at a time like today when accidents at work are increasing and we have a vote, starting with those of the budget of the past year for the current year, when we voted - for example - to tax INAIL's incomes, which are really annuities resulting from weary jobs. Think of Marcinelle's miners, the survivors or the widows of those miners. The INAIL annuity to the state, with an absurd rule intervened, determines the fiscal responsibility, that is, the burden before our tax system. We have made a unanimous commitment, during the budget law, to recover this situation, through the tax relief which, for more than fifty years, has been a special protection regime for those who, working, have lost their health share, have come close to the very hard experience of death. It is not possible to go to affect and attack the consistency of resources owed to INAIL. Then there is another rule written upside down, which concerns the request, by the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno, which later became the norm in the Decree-Law through the amending work, to place the need for a single programming document with regard to the Development and Cohesion Fund (FSC). Fifty billion are in the belly of the system of the Regions to make sure that infrastructures and upgrades of the territory become a fact, a success. Now from the Ministry for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno comes the need to re-examine all the programming documents, breaking up everything and starting over. If there is a problem in our ineptitude to develop, determining more than one, it is that too many times we start again from the beginning: let's always make it start from scratch. It's wrong. The problem of spending capacity is not solved if each time it breaks down to recompose, perhaps giving precedence to the desires of the momentary ruling class. Let me also point out another absurdity: the rule on the return of brains. Here again there is an abuse of wording: it writes norm on the re-entry of the brains and, instead of the brains, what falls in large part are the feet of the footballers or the arms of an unqualified, unskilled workforce, not marked by that extraordinary training and cognitive experience deriving from the work done in the centres of excellence abroad. This is how the rule of origin is born, so that Italy can gain in terms of extraordinary cognitive, elaborative and financial theoretical experience in the centres that we have sought, both inside and outside the European system. What does the norm do now? It even unintentionally generates a kind of unequal competition between those who use Italian human resources and companies that would instead benefit from the non-specialized and non-professional human resources of the outside world. If this happens, however, with a driving political force that presents itself and qualifies as saying: Before all Italians, it seems to me that there is a contradiction. Then the rules for growth and growth should - for example - tidy up, allocate resources, share the attractiveness of investments even internationally. On the story of Ilva, for example - apart from Ilva, of which my colleague Bellanova will say better than I do - when there is an intermittent continuity and seriousness of the ruling class, there is a vertical fall of attractiveness for entrepreneurs who must come from far away, out of the border. I therefore expect to continue to do a job of honesty, which really leads to an increase in financial, regulatory and administrative resources in order to facilitate the new entrepreneurial birth, in order to ensure that those who invest are rewarded. When we inherited and conceived the norm on the valorization of those who invested the profits of enterprise on productive innovation, the spirit was to help, reward and put forward those who hold the wealth not to make rent, but to make sure that income is generated and that is what we organize criticism. We could also have shared the improvement of the original text if time had been given. It is not an element of aesthetics the existence of the double Chamber, but it is a factor of improvement of the content. That is why I hope that, with honesty, those who will speak and vote can be linear and improvers. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u82	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u83	Mr President, the Decree-Law on growth comes to this House for its conversion after a long process of work in the House of Members, which allowed a more comprehensive and articulated text to be debated than its original wording. The measure contains many useful and sensible measures aimed at simplifying the lives of businesses and taxpayers and aimed at encouraging investment. Among the various measures envisaged, I would like to highlight those which, although still in embryonic form, facilitate the transfer of tax credits and their circulation. I am referring to the possibility of assigning quarterly VAT credits, in addition to annual VAT credits, and the possibility of surrendering the deduction credit for bonuses and ecobonus. The free movement of claims, both fiscal and commercial, which citizens and businesses claim towards the State, must be promoted and developed, because it could be a simple and effective way of unlocking the serious and persistent situation of late payments and reducing the time for reimbursement of tax credits. It would allow more cash for businesses, avoiding direct disbursements from the State and the public administration. It is necessary to allow those who have claims against the State to be able to use them as payment certificates, giving them - for example - to their suppliers in order to pay a commercial debt, as provided for in Article 10 of the Decree on growth in respect of claims arising from ecobonus and sysma bonuses. There are now technologies to make the transfer of credits easier and safer. The financial administration shall have all data enabling it to verify and certify claims, preventing fraud and abuse. These - like other important provisions contained in the measure and in the amendments approved by the House - are part of the measures which in some way seek to give oxygen to the economy. The measures we are taking are many, important and useful. In this House we can have discordant positions on the best proposals to be adopted to reactivate the country's economy, but I believe that we should converge on the identification of the root causes of our economic decline, which has been going on for decades now. We should start from their shared recognition precisely in order to arrive at the most effective solutions and to avoid limiting ourselves to treating the symptoms, instead going to attack the disease. We must do this responsibly, of course, but we must speak openly of the fact that our decline is linked to the macroeconomic framework and that the single currency works through the devaluation of labour, supported by the labour policies pursued by the last governments, by precariousness and flexibility, which is nothing but the instrument used to moderate wage claims and to devalue incomes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Unfortunately, the increase in flexibility in the labour market is mainly the work of a part of Parliament, the centre-left in particular, which has supported governments in recent years. Today Senator Richetti was ironic about the fact that the Movimento 5 Stars was born from a comedian and kept his feet firmly in comedy. Mr President, one of the fathers of the Italian left is certainly Enrico Berlinguer, a fellow countryman of mine, a politician who is also, and above all, committed to defending the value of work. I sincerely cannot ironize - as Senator Richetti has done - that some of the Italian left's leaders, those who have more than all carried out bad policies of demeaning work, can represent the heirs of Enrico Berlinguer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I just can't because I'm sorry. We must speak openly of the extreme mercantile policy, which has sacrificed incomes and investments, which has impoverished the Italians and destroyed the middle class, allowing the concentration of incomes and wealth in the hands of few and sometimes promoting the collapse of domestic demand. This government and this majority, after years of economic conformism, have had the merit of pointing their feet and approving measures that go in the opposite direction to the one wrongly followed so far. The growth decree that we are going to vote for attempts, in all possible directions, to breathe in the domestic demand, stifled by the mercantile extremism that characterized the single market and the eurozone. For this reason it is necessary to start from a deep analysis of the crisis, through the use of serious and reliable economic models. This analysis cannot and must not be reserved exclusively for the competent economists present in Parliament. We all have a duty to study and understand something that concerns us so closely and that affects the future of our lives and those of our children. Only in this way will we be able to better understand its meaning and identify the best solutions to give a real hope of rebirth to Italy and Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bossi Simone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u84	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u87	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to mention here the figure of a man of great depth and standing who, very quietly, has made a great contribution both to the Senate and to the judicial world. On 16 June, in Prato, Dr. Salvatore Senese, Magistrate, Member of the 11th legislature and Senator in the 12th and 13th legislatures, died. It is difficult if not impossible to summarize in the few minutes that I have available what he has done during his political and work activity, always characterized by a deep commitment to the defence of the rights and the guarantor role of the jurisdiction. He was the founder of the Democratic Magistrate, of which he was secretary during the darkest period, that of the lead years, and later in 1992 he was elected to Parliament, where he remained until 2002. He was a profound scholar of the issues inherent in democratic constitutionalism, such as the independence of the judge and the separation of powers, judicial ethics, guaranteeing and jurisdiction, the guarantees of social and labour rights. He was a strong defender of the values of peace and the rights of the peoples, heavily denouncing all crimes against humanity. He was a great magistrate, always linked to the most important themes of judicial ethics, such as the uncertainty of procedural truth, the need for availability to listen to the opposite reasons, the attitude to doubt and above all the independence from any internal interference or external to the magistrate; issues that are of great importance today, especially in the last period. The figure of Salvatore Senese is one of the brightest examples to which all magistrates, but also all legal practitioners, should direct their gaze to understand how the activity of each of them, of each magistrate, should be carried out. To the affirmation and defense of the principles that characterized the activity of magistrate he also devoted himself to his parliamentary activity. I feel that his teachings should always be kept in mind by all those who work in the judicial world, but in particular by the magistrates, for the seriousness with which he has played his role. I therefore express my condolences and feelings of closeness to all the family members of Senator Senese. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u88	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-126.ana.u89	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 27 June, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.18 p.m.
