ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u2	We are pleased to greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Stefano Patrizi in Mirto, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1018. I would remind you that the rapporteurs' replies were made at yesterday's sitting, that a proposal was rejected not to move on to the examination of the articles and that the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the decree-law to be converted took place. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u6	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u8	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in a European welfare system a measure is needed to protect people who are - or risk slipping - below the poverty line. In our territory there is a measure similar to the income of citizenship, which works well. The minimum income of the Province of Bolzano, which does not have requirements on residence as stringent as those of the national income, has long been guaranteeing to persons unable for physical, mental and social reasons to maintain their family and to satisfy their primary needs. With the approval of all trade unions and industry organizations, the Province of Bolzano, which has primary competence in this field, has decided to maintain its economic and social assistance services. There are many doubts as to how national citizenship income was built. A handful of days after his departure, there is still no agreement with the Regions, in particular with regard to the figure of navigators. What will they be called upon to do, how will they relate to employees in employment centres, how will they be recruited and framed? The agreement with the CAFs has not yet been signed. The municipalities have already said that they will hardly be able to cross the data on the residence of the last ten years, as well as to carry out all the checks for the fake changes of residence, the INPS has said that it will need at least six months to prepare the instruments of verification of the securities assets and has estimated that there will be at least 100,000 households that will receive the income without being entitled to it. 9:45 a.m. (Unterberger follow-up). But it's not just a question of control. A robust reform of employment centres was needed first. There are no suitable premises, computers, qualified staff and work organisation to make three job vacancies according to the time and qualification criteria set out in the measure. The distribution of resources, which is one of the objectives of the measure, will have distorted effects. The measure, as it is built, favours individuals and not families, yet all the data tell us that it is mainly poor families that cannot get out of this condition. It is also reductive to link poverty only to unemployment. Poverty can be the condition in which a single mother slides, with small children, in the absence of public facilities and services. Poverty can be the result of a condition of social marginality and lack of adequate cultural tools. As if that were not enough, we distribute resources that do not exist. Italy is on the verge of a new economic crisis. Growth estimates, contained in the budget law, are completely wrong. Industrial production has collapsed and, therefore, I wonder where the jobs for the three job vacancies will be for the beneficiaries of income. The incentives for companies will certainly not be sufficient. Which entrepreneur will ever employ an indeterminate person who, in the vast majority of cases, has a low level of skills? In the Commission there was no comparison which could help to improve the measure by correcting obvious distortions, some of which are clearly at risk of unconstitutionality. The maximum sentence of six years for those who make false statements is higher than that for a fake committed by a public official today. The requirement of ten years' residence in Italy to access income is disproportionate compared to the five to obtain long-term resident status and the Constitutional Court has already expressed itself against it in several cases. It is also the norm introduced in the Commission on documentation from the country of origin for foreigners. Just as in the case of Lodi's school canteens, a mechanism is created to complicate the life of foreigners and make access to social benefits difficult, if not impossible. And this, besides being inhumane, risks unleashing a real social problem. Even at 100 it is entirely optimistic that, in the face of a greater number of pensions, there will be an increase in recruitment. Let us remember that, with the budget law, turnover in the public administration has again been blocked. Given the hand, it is above all from this sector that the applications for retirement are coming, as well as from people who work in declining companies, who therefore leave because they fear the closure of the company or the dismissal. This is a measure that is financed by maintaining the blockage to the indexing of pensions introduced with the Fornero reform, so it is not true that the Fornero is abolished, but it preserves precisely that element that was the main object of protests and disputes. Nor does it solve the problem of women who have fewer contributions and who will not be able to retire even at 100. Share 100 is just another bill of exchange on the shoulders of the younger generations. This is always about pension reform, but it is always done from the point of view of those who want to retire and never from the point of view of those who will then have to pay them. The truth is that these two measures are introduced so quickly only to respond to an electoral need. Propaganda is, once again, the figure of this Government. Even right things, such as a minimum income, are done according to the times of politics and not according to those of their functioning and the general interest. Before redistributing wealth, this must be produced or at least the conditions must be built to make it grow. If the prospect of this government is indeed a legislative one, it is first of all necessary to build the economic and practical conditions for the introduction of such important and costly measures. On the other hand, here we are doing the exact opposite, according to the thesis, all to be demonstrated, that this will keep the consensus high and that we will have so many votes in the European elections. For all these reasons, I announce the Group's vote against the Autonomies. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and FI-BP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u9	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u11	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we have very difficult and hard years behind us for our country, years in which because of an economic crisis - the most serious since the post-war period - the country has changed completely its face, I would like to say, with a hint of rhetoric, it has changed even its soul. There has been a real industrial desertification in many areas of the territory, the expulsion of thousands of workers from the labour market, a labour market that has become much more fragmented and much more precarious, also because of the wrong choices made in recent years and poverty - we must define them in the plural, precisely because poverty has many faces - which have increased dramatically. We are talking about the people in absolute poverty, according to the algid definition that our statistical institutes give of this category, but that then they are people who dramatically fail to guarantee the subsistence to themselves and therefore to their family members; they are people who live, for example, a condition of serious social deprivation, people in relative poverty. Faced with this picture, Mr President, we cannot be prejudiced by all the instruments that go in the direction of income support, people's accompaniment and the possibility of their redemption. Every instrument that has a universalistic trait of this kind sees us basically favorable. I would add, of course, that monetary transfers are not enough and alas, the working dimension for people is not enough either, because today we are producing poor work and to redeem people, first and foremost those in difficulty, in order to combat inequalities, we must first invest in public goods, public health, public school, the environment, the welfare system: those are the elements that make a state a civil state, but they are above all the instruments that remove people from their fragility and put them on the same level as others, because they are a great engine of contrast to inequalities. Without that, we have no prejudice to income support and poverty-fighting instruments. I would also add, Mr President, that we feel very far away from the thesis I call divanist, of those who believe that the income of citizenship is something that encourages our children (but not only them) to sit on their gaps and thus discourages them from seeking a job. This thesis is not only offensive and those who propose it have absolutely no idea of the condition experienced by families in a poverty dimension (it is the condition that our young people live for example). It is, however, an even ridiculous thesis in relation to the fact that if the issue is that the income integration proposed by citizenship income is very close to the average wage threshold of this country, then perhaps we have another problem, which is the wage issue, a gigantic wage issue. Then I would like to say: raise the wages of this country first, instead of proposing the sofa's thesis. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and M5S Groups]] We feel very far from this thesis, but we also feel that we clearly say that the instrument of citizenship income, not in the basic inspiration that moves it, but in its implementation and execution, risks leading to objectives very far from those that the same legislator, the same majority aims. This is because there is a particular idea of poverty, as if it were a fault to be sanctioned, as if it were a condition that falls on the heads of these people who have sinned to be in this condition of difficulty. It is also clear from this sanction mechanism, Mr President, of penalties imposed on those who falsely declare their position that they are disproportionate and give the sense of a police state. Perhaps we should intervene where the discomfort is created, because if you do so you are certain that there is no need for this police state. Apart from that, there are some serious shortcomings - I say this to my colleagues in the majority - and I would like to see a challenge on our part. There are contradictions that need to be healed immediately, I say so also thinking about the passage to the House. If the measure is to attack the issue of fragility, marginality and poverty, how can we not think of introducing more stringent mechanisms, so that, for example, homeless people are accompanied by this instrument when they risk remaining outside? How can we not put the theme of the poorest children at the centre? How can one fail to understand that the question of poverty in many families is dramatically weighed down by the fact that within them there are people with disabilities who add to poverty a condition of human discomfort absolutely immeasurable and on which action must be taken? How can one think of a measure for poverty from which non-EU citizens who live regularly in our country are excluded, to which life becomes complicated until they are excluded from the beneficiaries of the measure itself? Mine is an entirely political, indeed political-chromatic consideration, because this yellow-green government is always tinting more than just one color, which is evidently green. This is true of the income of citizenship, but also of the 100 quota, to which I limit myself to saying to the majority to stop propaganda: you are not reforming the Fornero law, this is a step, an element of flexibility, on which, moreover, there is not even a prejudice on our part. Here too, however, there are elements which we cannot fail to stress. You are not attacking the structural nodes of the pension issue. It is a relief, of course, for those who were waiting to be accompanied to their pension, an element of flexibility. But there is a gigantic issue, which concerns women and their discontinuous careers - unfortunately - that do not allow workers in this country to move towards their retirement. There is one issue that concerns our young people's discontinuous careers. There is the question of wear and tear. We must finally put our hand on the subject of wear and tear. And there is, of course, the enormous problem of exodus. Here too, there is a safeguard that must be put in hand. We asked you to intervene and you did not, because there are still people who have neither an income nor a pension. Mr President, I conclude by saying that we are faced with a complex measure. I insist that the underlying inspiration that moves him sees us as uncontroversial. However, we are very concerned about its implementation. There is the issue of the precarious who would be hired to solve the problem of other precarious people. It comes to mind an old essay by economist Piero Sraffa, "Production of goods by means of goods." The paraphrase could be: production of precarious by means of precarious. We have asked you to resolve, for example, the issue of the Anpal precarious, which should deal with the operation of this machine. For all these issues, we say to the majority: "Resolve these issues in the transition to the House." I want to address, through you, first and foremost my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars. We challenge you on this. You have the opportunity to solve these nodes in the passage to the House. Will you? If you do so, we leave you an open door (this is the reason why we will propose a vote of abstention in this passage); but that open door must have a point of fall, which is the possibility of putting hand to questions that, otherwise, make that measure a measure full of great contradictions and, above all, a measure that becomes ineffective to solve the condition, which is dear to all, of those who in recent years have paid dearly the weight of the economic crisis and who must get out of their condition of difficulty. That is our responsibility; that is the responsibility of politics. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u14	BERTACCO (FdI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure arrives in the Chamber today after weeks of waiting, Commissions postponed and amendments by the majority set aside in an attempt to take time to find an agreement within the majority that has not been and that, in fact, has exonerated the Senate of its functions. Everything returned to the House. So, my dear colleagues, once again, we have worked for nothing. We've been waiting days for decisions that were taken outside these classrooms. I want to tell the Italians. Today this government will approve the income of exclusion. Exclusion for large families and disabled people. A measure with a clear electoral matrix, because it is too important to give the electoral tip to so many, even those who do not have the right, to smart people. With the bureaucratic infernal machine you have created, in fact, it will take months to understand if those who are taking citizenship income are really entitled to it. But it doesn't matter. There are European elections and, given the electoral beating, a welfare aid always serves. To the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars, who are said to be impressed by the opposition of Brothers of Italy to the income of citizenship, because the social right should be close to the last, I remind you that, for us, nomads, chronic nothing-making, valetists and abusive sellers, that is, all people who will take the income of citizenship, are not the last. The last for us are the unlucky Italians who respect the rules. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Those who work and pay taxes for hunger wages, artisans who after a lifetime will have to close due to e-invoicing, young people fleeing abroad because they do not find work, precarious people who do not find a stable job are all categories that will not take the income of citizenship. The story of the last ones, go tell it to someone else. We will not allow small businesses to close down to give nomads the allowance. I do not know if anyone remembers in 1993 the television series "X-files". There is a similarity with this provision because Italy will have the " x-navigators," people with superpowers who on average will have to follow and find a job for 800 people. These are 6,000 people who will increase the number of precarious people in our nation because you will hire them with a collaboration contract, people who do not know where they will go to work and with what tools. I shall try to re-examine the questions already asked in the Commission: selected by whom? How? We have tabled an amendment calling for compliance with the principles of maximum transparency, publicity, impartiality and equal opportunities as criteria for the selection of navigators. You rejected him. I laugh for those who listen outside: rejected, in the face of change. However, be careful, because it is also said that at a later moment they will be stabilised: how, where, by whom? Mystery. We asked to be able to scroll through the many open rankings to try to remedy a legislative madness included in the budget law that blocks the sliding of the rankings. But, on the other hand, from those who gave birth to the decree dignity much more could not be expected. There is another question that arises spontaneously: but who wrote this provision has ever entered a municipality? I don't think so. 60% of those who apply for citizenship income will not be eligible for work and, therefore, will have to be taken over by the social services of the municipalities. And then I try - I say: "I try" - in a nutshell to tell you what it means to take charge. Taking charge is a process in which a social worker, faced with an express or unexpressed question but nevertheless on the basis of an institutional mandate, plans one or more interventions aimed at a person or a unit of coexistence, maintaining with it or it a continuous relationship for the purpose of reviewing the intervention itself over time. Do you understand? You take care of a life, not an elector. But what does it matter: the municipalities will do it with little resources and without staff; the important thing is that they deliver the ATM of the income of citizenship. Personal checks will be carried out by the police, removing them from a service to ensure the safety of citizens. Citizens who listen to us, the problem is yours and not the Government of change. You had to create work and instead you will create assisted. Di Maio said that with the income of citizenship poverty will be wiped out. When the Italians realize what you have managed to do, you will be erased. We are convinced that the state must put in place measures to combat poverty, but citizenship income is the wrong answer to the real problem of poverty. It is a deception because the resources available are totally insufficient to do what is promised: 6 billion for 5 million people - as announced - for 2019 means an average of one hundred euros per month per person or 780 euros per month to about 750,000 people. Only in order to guarantee the promises made to the 4 million minimum and social pensioners would it take more than 10 billion. Citizenship income is an insult to those who work forty hours a week for a little more than that amount: soldiers earning 850 euros a month, police officers, prison police, many workers and employees earning 1,100 hard labor; part-time workers earning 500 or 700 euros a month. For this reason we have tried to limit the damage of this measure with our proposals: a child income of 300 euros for each dependent child up to six years: rejected; doubling the invalidity pension: rejected; raising the minimum pensions and anticipating to sixty years the receipt of the social pension for those who are deprived of income: rejected; fund to start the family quotient of one billion euros: rejected; fund of 400 million euros for free kindergartens: rejected; State guarantee on loans for young couples: rejected; tax relief up to 20,000 euros for new hires and self-employed: rejected; excluding those sentenced with penalty not less than two years: rejected; prohibition of overlapping benefits for the definition of minimum income in order to avoid that those who have a residence permit due to citizenship income can still remain in Italy: rejected; same contribution for those who have a rental property to those who are paying a mortgage: rejected; first subscribe to the pact with theState , then receive the citizenshipincome :rejected ; there is at least the first proposal forwork , if not taken back in thecountry ; no time ofcitizenship :rejected ; only the possibility of non-profitment isdenied;) :rejected ; revise the equivalence scale so as not to penalise largefamilies :rejected. Many proposals for a single answer: rejected. We are sorry but the parliamentary dialectic was suspended at the beginning of this parliamentary term. To the representatives of the Movimento 5 Stars who were here last parliamentary term I would like to remind them of their protests in the Chamber, with their hands full of ink, in an attempt to block the vote of yet another confidence in the Renzi Government. You did it to claim your prerogatives as parliamentarians. What about today? Eat a meal cooked out of here that embarrasssss you because it betrays everything you've gone to tell over the years. The lie is sin; a sin that today is at the expense of the last, with a written provision that will not give answers, let alone jobs and well-being to the Italians. A few things about 100. It is in the program of Brothers of Italy. We are aware that it is not the reform of the Fornero and not even its cancellation, but we certainly consider it as a first step forward. We have tabled a number of amendments for this head of the measure, which we consider to be improvements, but above all of common sense. Sorry to see them inexorably rejected. We have proposed that TFS advances should be financed by the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and not by the banking system, because for us it is perhaps better to pay interest to the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti than to do another pleasure to the banks. We have proposed that for the redemption of the degree the extension of the preferential criteria be without age limit. The breach of the contract has also taken place here and has again prevented a sound parliamentary confrontation, otherwise the opinion contrary to these simple proposals is difficult to understand. I conclude with a very brief thought dedicated to the younger generations: you become great by earning the good of the people. We, patriots of Brothers of Italy, work every day to achieve this goal. For the reasons set out above, I announce the vote against the Group of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u17	RENZI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that the Government is presenting to this House today is the card of the yellow-green majority. We must pay attention to a choice that is the qualifying choice of five-star economic policy and League. It's your card. We will see if this decree will allow you in the coming months to achieve a beautiful 2019, to abolish poverty, to give the green light to the economic boom: these are the words that the President of the Council and the Vice President of the Council have used to present this act. For us, Mr President, that is not the case: this decree-law is wrong for three reasons, one linked to the past, one to the present and one to the future. You will forgive me, Mr President, if I do not repeat the extraordinary and timely remarks of merit which my colleagues in the Democratic Party, Thomas Nannicini, Annamaria Parente, Edward Patriarch and Mauro Laus, have addressed to the majority in this debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , with simple amendments, with a view to doing their own work as Members of the minority and helping out. I will not repeat the arguments of merit. All I'm saying is that, with this decree-law, you certified to have lied to the voters, because you promised a citizenship income that we had valued for 63 billion euros and that Vice President Di Maio had said in the election campaign is worth 20 billion euros; today there are 4 billion euros. And you lied to the voters when you said you were going to abolish the Fornero law in the first week of government. You have not abolished the Fornero law and you have not made a quota 41; you have made a quota of 100, putting the young generations in difficulty for the coming months and years. After all, you lied about flat tax and lied about reunions. This decree-law marks the end of the yellow-green government's innocence over the election campaign. But, much more serious, this decree-law marks a resounding act of masochism in the face of the economic crisis that we are about to live. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is no call for EUR 40 billion and the Minister for Economic Affairs is missing the call in this House. I understand the embarrassment. You have shouted for years against the safeguard clauses and, now that you are in the government, you have doubled them; there are 25 billion euros to be found for 2020. But, far more serious, the error in the forecasts, the true false that lies at the basis of the budget law, leads to the need for 2019 of at least 15 billion euros. There are 40 billion missing and you put 8 billion on a measure that doesn't help growth. Don't say that growth is impossible in Italy, because with the Monti Government we were at -2,3 and with the Letta Government at -1,7; then with our Governments the growth has returned and casually, with the Conte Government, we are back in recession. Will it be random? Will it be chance circumstances? I am amazed to read the constant reference: "Eh, but you had Dragons." Let's tell you a secret: you Dragons have it, too. Draghi is President of the European Central Bank by five governments: Berlusconi, Monti, Letta, then our Governments and then Count. I believe that you will see the seventh President of the Council in time, before the end of your term of office. But what is missing today is not the President of the European Central Bank, which is there; it is a development policy. What do you want to do about infrastructure? Are you doing the TAV or not? [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] The problem is not that there is no Dragons, the problem is that there is Toninelli. That's the problem point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The point about work: Minister Di Maio made a post on Facebook, valorizing the data of 2018. I share this and understand your embarrassment, because it is enough, even to a multitasking minister like our Vice President of the Council, to make a simple sum and subtraction on the iPhone calculator to realize that the positive data of 2018 derive from the measures of the past, so much so that from 1 June, the day from which you are in charge, to 31 December ISTAT marks a regression of the jobs, with a loss of 122,000 permanent jobs and a total balance of 75,000 jobs in less. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The increase in jobs is what you are saying on the basis of the results we have produced. It's not that there's no Dragons, it's that there's Di Maio. These are the real problems of economic development of this Government. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Let me say that the issue of citizenship income stems from a vision of work that we do not share. We read in the sacred texts of Davide Casaleggio that in 2054 all of us will work one percent of our time. It is a neo-Luddhist vision, 4.0, it is a vision that continues to imagine that the future is scary, that there is no work because the Internet of things will change the way of doing work, with the revolution of big data, artificial intelligence. True, it will change the job, but there will be new jobs: it is not that we can imagine that, since the future changes, we will no longer work. We are like the Amanuans who were afraid of the press; we are like the Luddists who were afraid of robots and technological innovation. It's not like that. The future is not a threat. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Friends of the five stars, we say no because we are totally different from you in the vision of work. If there is poverty, you do not fight it by creating a subsidy, finding 6,000 navigators - we have not yet figured out by whom they will be hired - to whom you entrust the task of offering three job proposals to those who do not have it. If in fact in Vibo Valentia someone has three job proposals, there is no need for the navigator to find a job, we guarantee it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] The central point is that you use a culture of fear about the future, which is the same as the League on Immigration. You imagine that tomorrow is something to be afraid of; we think not. Tomorrow is certainly uncertain and we must all work together as Italians to make it stronger, but you cannot imagine that the future of the Democratic Republic based on work is both a subsidy, as well as assistance and a diseducational message to our young people. [[Applause from the PD, FI-BP and Senator Casini Groups]] It is the direction of march that is wrong, it is not the technicalities. Mr President, this look of affection that we as a Democratic Party have towards Italy is the look of those who bring results because, when we ruled the jobs have increased and I hope that you, colleagues of the majority, will do better than us. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] The fundamental point, however, is that this look of affection clashes with a language of hatred, Mr President, that language of hatred which, for example, is expressed on social media against a singer who simply says to open the ports. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a language of hatred that leads an Italian public school teacher to tell a black child that he is ugly and that his sister is a monkey. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] It is a language of hatred that cannot allow you to have within the M5S Group - and I address a person I value as its President Patuanelli - not only those who mimic the cuffs, but those who say that a senator must be hanged. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] This is a language from which you must distance yourself and which cannot lead you here yesterday to tell a senator of our Group that he must burn in hell, Mr President. There must also be more strength on the part of the Presidency Council in stigmatizing this language, which is damaging to both sides. You see, who says to me that I must be hanged provokes a reaction in the Democratic Party Group: President Marcucci asked me to speak on behalf of the Group, because those who want to silence some of us do not realize that it is an amplifier for our ideas and our desire to carry forward the ideas and the strength of the future and tomorrow of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Whoever tells me that I must be hanged does not frighten the Democratic Party Group: with that language it creates a situation of discomfort to the country. When the Minister of Economic Development goes from yellow vests, the most military fringe and coupist, he scares international investors. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]] When you keep giving wrong messages about the spread, take away the savings of families. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini]] You don't scare us; you're scaring the Italians. Change your way before it's late. [[Extended applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u18	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Technical Institute for Industry (Sen). Onofrio Jannuzzi in Andria, in the province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u21	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Presidents of the Commission, the rapporteurs, Vice-Premier Di Maio and Undersecretary Durigon for all the work that has been done over the past few weeks to bring the famous measures relating to the 100th quota and citizenship income to this House. With regard to the subject of pension reform, in a few minutes, finally voting on the measure relating to 100, we will pass the Fornero law, just as we promised in the election campaign. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Another commitment kept compared to the many that are present on the list of recent months. With 100 at least to sixty-two years of age and at least thirty-eight years of contributions - I emphasize without any penalty... Patriarca (PD). That's not true! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...with respect to all the wrong things that have been said in recent times - we will finally retire more than a million people over the next three years. It will be - I would like to emphasise - a well-deserved pension, people who have worked hard for a life and who are right that we can also enjoy the family; it is also in this way that families are helped. However, in addition to pensioning one million people, the 100 share aims to promote generational replacement, to move the labour market. Of course, there are no automatisms, it is not that for every person who is going out, there will certainly be a new recruitment, but reasonably we can think that companies to increase their productivity can offset an exit with one or - perhaps - two income into the world of work. It is recognized by all that the Fornero reform has certainly done one thing: it has cast the world of work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] That's what he did. [[Comments from the PD Group]] I would also remind you that from November, in agreement with the European Union, the turnover for civil servants and public administration will finally be unblocked, which until yesterday had not been possible with previous governments. To those who tell us that the pension reform will pay for future generations... GRIMANI (PD). And who's paying you? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). ...we respond by saying that if young people do not find their jobs today, there will be no future generations. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] That's what we need to remember. And we see it with the birth data of our country, which are the lowest in Europe. In this respect, I would like to point out that the reform brings us closer to the rest of Europe. In fact, there are only two countries in the European Union - Denmark and Greece - which require their citizens to leave work later than expected in Italy to date. In the rest of the world only Iceland, Israel and Norway have the highest poles. This brings us closer to the rest of Europe. We regret that European rulers and officials have not missed the opportunity to show once again that they are very far from reality, demonstrating, above all, the comatose state in which the European Union is located today. Indeed, the report on Italy has arrived, in which we have been told that with a quota of 100 jobs will not grow. We are not surprised that they have said that, what is surprising is that the rulers of the European Union, rather than thinking of a strategy to get out of the recession (which involves the whole eurozone: we know the conditions in which France and Germany are located, which has halved the growth forecasts for 2019, and we also know that other countries fall behind), rather than writing new rules for sustainable globalisation, we have as our sole concern to attack the Italian populist government every day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This is the real drama of those who govern us in Europe today. As far as citizenship income is concerned, we know that it is a symbolic measure of the 5 Star Movement; ubi maior there are Patuanelli, who is the Parent Company, and vice-premier Di Maio, therefore we do not get too much on the subject. Allow me, however, to make at least two comments on the issue of citizenship income: this measure has generated too much laughter in recent months, too much. Moreover, if this mechanism exists in many European countries, there will of course be a reason. We consider that it is right, as our Matteo Salvini said, to help the poor and help five million poor and three million unemployed, including many disabled people: for us it is an act of social justice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Of course, it has been said from the beginning that we had to put stakes because I think it is right and reasonable to think of such a measure but with stakes to avoid the so-called sly. Well: we are very pleased that companies have been involved to this extent, which are encouraged to hire because from the moment the assumption takes place the remaining monthly amounts will go to the company in the form of contributory reductions. This is a fundamental point on which we have fought. So we've set up stakes. At first we were told that we wanted to give money to everyone. Then we anticipated a few stakes and now they tell us, in the interventions of the minority senators, that we have narrowed the field too much. As always you never understand where you want to go and what is the prejudice that always exists on all our measures. Before concluding, allow me one last reflection as a citizen before even as a politician: we wonder why those who attack us now on the issue of citizenship income, when the state and the past governments spent five billion on immigrants - one might call it "migration income" - did not protest and was good for everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] When they spent (and they spend and I don't want to go into the matter whether it's right or not) 10 billion euros a year to give 80 euros to those who already had the job, this was considered a stroke of genius of the then Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments from the PD Group. Protests from Senator Malpezzi.]] Senator Renzi, call my colleague back. You call yourself the Democratic Party: respect your symbol, at least. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u22	Senator Malpezzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u23	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). On the other hand, if we spend seven billions to help our poor and disabled people, it unleashes itself against the whole world. We sincerely do not understand this, or at least we understand that the world is going backwards today, but we think that there must be a limit to everything. In declaring our vote in favour of this important decree-law... LAUS (PD). Think about it! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, not only don't think about it, we let others write the books and we think about writing an important page of the recent history of Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u26	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have said a lot about this measure these days. I must say that I was particularly impressed by the way in which my colleagues in the majority spoke in the general debate. I very much appreciated the fact that they have spoken this time; indeed, I apologise for having withdrawn their participation in my initial speech in doubt, but it was the precedent that led me to be suspicious. This time my fellow Members have spoken and have done us a great deal of pleasure, because at least they have spoken. I hope that they will also listen to the voice of the minority on the next occasion and perhaps take advantage of our suggestions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, as has been stigmatized by the previous Members, who have very correctly outlined the perimeter of this measure, this decree "one-one" becomes a decree "inino-ino" [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because the beneficiary audience and the available funds are restricted. President Di Maio, you who went to Brussels as real men, beating your fists on the table, and you tried to make a budget law - on which this provision is based - of the man who must never ask, of the man "Denim" who tears his shirt and says "I am here only to bring home some results" [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In fact, you were wrong: you didn't go to Brussels, you went back to Canossa. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And unfortunately you brought home a bad result for Italy. This measure has been described by everyone in a bucolic way, such as the abolition of poverty, as a moment of happiness for this Parliament. All five-star colleagues, or a large part of them, spoke and said: "We are happy to be able to tell the Italians that we have kept our [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] They are already awakening from the anesthesia of empty words, propaganda, slogans. Italians are already waking up from hibernation, torpor, from the illusion of poverty abolished to "Porta a Porta" (Porta a Porta), Minister Di Maio. Poverty is abolished in practice. In this House we must never forget the massive amounts of reality that our economic situation requires us to bring here, for the benefit of all. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, they said it in the interventions that preceded me: everything that has to grow is falling and everything that has to fall is growing! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Public debt, deficit and unemployment are growing; industrial production, business and consumer confidence, export, which has been our spearhead and has supported our business, are falling. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] And you're happy? Are you happy? You say this is gonna be a beautiful year? I heard someone say "yes," it will be beautiful in 2019, but we are waiting for you in 2020. Colleagues, it will be Italy that will find itself dramatically naked in 2020, with ever more serious problems, that this decree "one" will not solve. It will become a category, which really requires serious, important solutions, that go beyond the arrogance, ignorance and danger of those who believe that slogans build the provisions, the arrogance of those who believe that work is done by decree. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, we do not need to navigate from the shipwreck announced: they are shipwrecked announced, they are people who have no professionalism, no ability to find jobs. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues, the work does not look for the navigators, sailing and shipwrecking; the work makes it the growth, the development, the reduction of the fiscal wedge, the family quotient. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Poverty fights the income of dignity, what we have done, the social card, the baby bonus, the real tax breaks. And colleagues in the League remember that well, because they were with us when we approved real measures. You know what the mistake is? The true illusionism - which is then a witchcraft, colleagues, stop playing Magò Maga, no more witchcraft! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] - is trying to convince 5 million poor - poor Italians, absolute poor - firstly, that they will have a citizenship income, and secondly, that they will come out of poverty, mixing irreconcilable things, such as income support, which is also necessary. Any government, as its first measure, must address the issue of poverty and its conflict. [[Applause from Senator Pichetto Fratin.]] Friends, I have heard surreal things in this House, such as the question: 'What do you have against the poor?', which I see claimed by Mr Pesco, who is the one who denied streaming in the Commission during the examination of the budget law because he was afraid of transparency. I still congratulate you, Senator Pesco. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Colleagues, we do not want to fight growth and development but poverty, to get the poor out of a dimension that is not a value but a suffering! You want to create the poor and the state parasites, which depend on you, on us and on our pockets and on our coffers, and when our money - because it belongs to us - will end - which will happen - they will find themselves even poorer than before. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Colleagues, another piece of news is a recurring statement that I have heard in this House these days: 'We have passed the Fornero Act'. I repeat that I do not wish to give sad news to my colleagues who have said this, but quota 100 confirms the Fornero law, because it is absolutely based on its system: it is nothing more than a voluntary and temporary reduction - based on a window that opens and closes in three years - that pensioners apply to their pension on the basis of a bank loan, of which they will also pay interest. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Let's tell the truth to the Italians, this is a 100th share, i.e. the absolute confirmation of the installation of the Fornero law. Let's not lie to the Italians: no more witchcraft; no more arrogance; no more slogans! Let's tell the Italians that the income of citizenship is paid with the deficit, that is with the future debt of the Italians and of all of us, taken from our pockets, and that the income of citizenship is also paid with the pensions of the Italians, who will not be indexed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And these pensions are certainly not gold: 1,300 euros net per month that will not benefit from the increase due to the increase in the cost of living. For you it will be nothing, friends, I see you so quiet and loose in taking away money from pensioners: but it is from 30 to 60 euro less in paycheck, than for a pensioner count. Retire people and to cover citizenship income take away money from pensioners: nice operation, congratulations! I'd call it a zero, actually, zero, not a 100. You give and you take off, you take off and you give. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Then there is another thing, friends, that struck me very much: it was beautiful the family image described by some colleagues, especially of the Movimento 5 Stars but also of the League, who talked about grandparents who, being able to retire early, would find themselves in the family to care for the grandchildren. But, colleagues, if you stop the generational elevator the house will be crowded: there will also be children without work, not only grandparents to care for grandchildren! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] So, no more bullshit and no more arrogance. We are bewildered by your arrogance: you are selling your soul, because you know very well - I repeat - that the work is not done by decree and poverty, Minister Di Maio, does not defeat itself at "Porta a Porta". We say yes to work, yes to infrastructure, yes to investment, yes to TAV! No to the lies, no to the decree-law of this government, which steals the future from the Italians! [[The Senators of the FI-BP Group wear blue coats bearing the inscription "yes work," no lies and protective helmets of the same colour bearing the inscription "yes TAV".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u27	The folklore, Senator Bernini, does not belong to this Assembly, nor to the dignity of the institutions, but to the squares. Stop it. Get it all out of the way. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 10:43 a.m. and resumed at 10:46 a.m.) The session is resumed. I would like to remind you that folklore does not belong to the Senate Chamber, but only to the squares. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u30	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today a circle that opened about six years ago, when I took the floor in this House to tell the end of a merciless Italian history that contributed to the moral and economic decline of the country. On the other hand, this time I speak on behalf of all the Movimento 5 Stars, of which I am honored and proud to be part, to mark the beginning of a new history, which has its roots in our Constitution and which finally breaks down those economic and social obstacles that, because of the ignavianism and the menephregism of an old policy, have so far prevented citizens from being equal and free in the same way. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Today, our Constitution, the one that the PD wanted to reduce to shreds, is being implemented. Today the State looks to those who have been left behind, far behind, in a corner, to those who have been put in a position to believe that they are a failure and to stop hoping for the future. Today the Senate Assembly approves citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Comments from the FI-BP Group]] Everyone will be put in a position to share and believe in themselves and in their own future. The time is over: "We'll let you know"; "A job? These days you can't even find him paying for gold." The time of good advice dispensed by the former Minister of Labour and Social Policy that said "go and have a soccer game, maybe meet someone who offers you the job!". [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Citizenship income is much more than economic support. They tried hard to make people think it wasn't. There has been talk of aid and welfare and I have also heard of almsgiving from those who have really done it, to tranches of 80 euros and to some even demanding it back. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] Everyone knows that income is much more. Everyone knows that citizenship income is an instrument of active policy. If I look back, if I think back about all that extraordinary a movement of citizens... [[Reiterate protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u31	Colleagues, let Senator Taverna continue. Everyone says what they want. You will then express your dissent through the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u32	TAVERNA (M5S). If I look back, if I think back about everything extraordinary a citizen movement has done... [[Senator Laus' comments.]] Senator Laus, do I have to take you back when I don't preside? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Can I get it back from here, too? His rudeness and rudeness... [[Repeated comments from Senators Laus and Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u33	Senator Marcucci, please sit down. Let's finish the surgery. Everyone says what they want, we are in a free Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u34	[[Protests from the PD Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). If I look back, if I think back about everything extraordinary a movement of citizens has done in recent years for citizens, the first images that come to mind are those of the two marches that from Perugia to Assisi have seen us alongside thousands of people who were asking for an opportunity to get back in the game, rights, social justice, they asked for no one to remain behind. He was there, listening to the many voices of those who were forced to live on the margins and to see his children emigrate abroad while the usual known fattened more and more [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] , that I realized that it is the story of each of us that writes that of an entire country. On the other hand, it is precisely from the history of ordinary citizens that the Movimento 5 Stars was born. But I can't forget how hard it cost us. It wasn't easy. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]] The Movimento 5 Stars has made it its most important battle. It was the first point of the program already in the 2013 elections. Since then we have never stopped fighting in Parliament to become a reality and I would particularly like to thank my colleague and friend Nunzia Catalfo, today President of the Commission, for her tireless commitment to the drafting and promotion of the bill. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Laus (PD). Remove the 80 euros! TAVERNA (M5S). It was October 2013 when we deposited it here in the Senate, how could we forget it? At that time I was the Parent Company, it was the time when the Senate was expressing itself on Berlusconi's decadence, because it sees, Mr Saccone, we are proud to have a political leader who is thirty-two years old, who is censored, who has done humble work before becoming Minister like all the Italian boys and it is not me who must remind you of the history of his political leader. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group. The Senators of the M5S Group stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u35	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u36	TAVERNA (M5S). Italy only five years ago was a condemned man who was still sitting in Parliament, after having been in the government for twenty years to the sound of laws ad personam; a technical government had just finished writing the laws only for Europe and was about to start another one that the laws did for friends, banks, banks of friends and friends of banks. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Protests from PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u37	Is it possible to listen without this noise? Stop! TAVERNA (M5S). And then we arrived, who from the opposition started immediately by fighting in Parliament for a measure to combat poverty. Now the roles have reversed: we are in the government and you are in opposition, always united, this time against the income of citizenship.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u38	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] But how can we sit in Parliament and counter the only measure that can bring down social inequalities in our country? For so many, too many years this country has been debased, humiliated, eaten piece by piece... Mr Laus (PD). Remove the 80 euros! Shame! TAVERNA (M5S). Senator Laus, you said that seven times! MALPEZZI (PD). Do it! Do it! It's just words! TAVERNA (M5S). ...from the right and the left that, without a shred of shame, are today flagging the intention to collect signatures for a referendum against citizenship income. MALPEZZI (PD). But who? TAVERNA (M5S). It was not enough for him to destroy the social state by creating an abyss between rich and poor. No, now to those same poor, sons of their policies, these gentlemen have even decided to declare war. Left, left. But where's the left? You have also denied yourself to counter the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] [[Protests from the PD Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). You cannot speak to us, you must address this House! TAVERNA (M5S). They've tried so hard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is not possible to continue in this way. TAVERNA (M5S). And it was the time of the covers... [[Protests from the PD Group. Senator Marcucci approaches the benches of the M5S Group and addresses Senator Taverna. Senators Quaestors intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u39	Please, Senator Taverna, I don't want to interrupt the session. Please return to your place.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u40	TAVERNA (M5S). President, shall we send them to sit down? [[Senators Bellanova and Laus display signs bearing the inscription "#VERGOGNA".]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u41	Senator Taverna, please just make a quiet explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u42	[[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] TAVERNA (M5S). That is what I am doing, insofar as I am allowed by the disorderly attitude of the Democratic Party in the front line [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u43	Senator Taverna, continue. You still have four minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u44	TAVERNA (M5S). You must allow me time to finish my speech because I have been interrupted many times. You have tried in every way to hinder it, for example with the theme of covers. They will have asked us 5 million times where the covers were; 5 million times, as many as the people will now be able to have their dignity. Sometimes I wake up at night and go find the budget law in case Giannini calls me and asks for cover. Then it was the turn of the couch: I felt all the colors to convey the idea that we help those who do not want to work, lying knowing to lie. [[Protests from Senator Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u45	Senator Malpezzi, sit down. TAVERNA (M5S). On the other hand, everyone knows that in order to obtain income, it is necessary to engage in a process of social and work reintegration. If I look back today, what stirs me more anger is that in doing so you only made sure that they spent five more years in vain; five years in which - it is impossible to deny it - the conditions of the country have worsened, in which the poor have increased and millions of Italians are forced to give up, not only to cure themselves, but also to make the second meal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u46	[[Lively protests from Senator Bellanova.]] five years in which millions of young people have continued to flee Italy and many entrepreneurs on the pavement have chosen to take their lives in order not to accept their shame and that of their children. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] BITI (PD). Talk to the presidency. TAVERNA (M5S). For us there was only one lighthouse: no one must remain behind, just as our constituent Fathers dreamed [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now that dream is coming true, because finally in our country there will be a real and effective measure of fighting poverty. Finally, everyone's right to a dignified life is recognized by law. [[Senator Mallegni exhibits a sign with the words: "People's House? To ask the Taverna, which is removed by parliamentary assistants.]] The link between citizenship income and mafia is perhaps less intuitive. In fact, if you are free and not forced by need, you are no longer blackmailable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This means a very simple thing: those subjects who have built their political careers on biech electoral exchanges will have to make up for it: it is over because you will have freedom from need and often also from despair. BELLANOVA (PD). You did it last week! TAVERNA (M5S). The last thought goes to the unions, who went to the streets against the income of citizenship, moreover along with Confindustria. Well, it ended for them too: they perched on their prerogatives forgetting that they were supposed to represent the weakest and not the strongest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I have also heard that providing such a high citizenship income means that you are no longer tempted to accept low-wage jobs. MALPEZZI (PD). Time! Time! TAVERNA (M5S). As if the problem were the income of citizenship too high and not the wages too low. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] As I heard you talking, I wondered what these people know about poverty that criticizes the income of citizenship. [[Senator Laus protests.]] Mr Laus (PD). How dare you? Shame on you! Who do you think you're talking to? [[Lives and repeats protests from the PD Group. Senator D'Arienzo displays a sign with the inscription "TSO" in it.]] TAVERNA (M5S). There is a sentence of Mother Teresa of Calcutta who, invited to a conference on hunger in the world, said she would participate in it provided that the invited persons had observed at least three days of fasting, because to speak of hunger one must be hungry. [[Senator Lonardo displays a sign with the words: "Popular House? To ask the Taverna, which is removed by parliamentary assistants. Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] I therefore recommend to my colleagues, before talking about poverty, to start living with EUR 400 a month, as our pensioners demanded while they kept their vitality. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and to start to keep their families at 800 euros a month, as they wanted our citizens to do while they had salaries above 14,000 euros. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Vivacious protests from the PD Group]] Anyway, we've already cut the vitals and we're getting ready for wages. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We of Movimento 5 Stars have many defects, but two things no one can deny us: we have a big heart and the head hard because they taught us that we must start doing what is necessary, then what is possible and suddenly we were surprised to do the impossible. [[Live, repeated applause from the M5S Group. Many congratulations]] You're from the FI-BP group. Yes work, no lies!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u47	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 4 of 28 January 2019 laying down urgent provisions on citizenship income and pensions. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Extended applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Don't make him talk! You don't have to talk! Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I just want to inform the House that a few minutes ago I gave you the report of yesterday's sitting, from which it is clear, in official and definitive terms, that a Senator of Movimento 5 Stars threatened and offended our senators. [[Protests from the M5S Group. Senator Castaldi is heading towards Senator Marcucci's desk.]] This time, Mr President, I ask you to take action! It is no longer possible to tolerate situations of threat and offense that have occurred over time. [[Comments of Senator Airola]] CASTALDI (M5S). Shame! But you're not ashamed! Mr Marcucci (PD). But go back to your place! You can't come here! (Senators Quaestors intervene.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u51	Senator Marcucci, you delivered documentation to the presidency. I will examine it, I will take note of it, I will look into the situation in this House and we will draw the conclusions.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u54	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, I think it is right to speak at this moment, after a part of Senator Renzi's speech and after the words now spoken by Senator Marcucci. In fact, it would be easy for me to refer also to the signs with the TSO written on display as Vice President Taverna spoke. It would be easy for me to say that there are actions and reactions, and that I believe that both actions and reactions should be censored. Mr Marcucci (PD). And I agree with that. Patuanelli (M5S). We must make an effort in this House, all of us. I am trying to do so, as President of the numerically largest group present in this House. A group that, for the most part, opposed the last parliamentary term, even very rigid, and perhaps even above tone. I am trying to do this, but we must try to do it all together, in order to make this House a place where we are confronted civilly with the ideas and proposals of the majority and the opposition, knowing that there is a right of the majority to govern and a right of the opposition to oppose and make different proposals. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Let us make an effort and let us not continue to tell each other: but you raised your voice first! Every now and then, in fact, I have the impression that it is easier for me to manage my three children when they tell me: no, he slaps me first; or: no, she slipped my chair. Well, sometimes I make a bigger effort in here than with my three kids. I think we all have to make a very quiet argument about this and try to lower the tones together! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Senator Collina's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u55	I believe that if we continue to use disrespectful tones we also give a very bad example to all the citizens who are watching us, who can then be legitimated to turn to us in the same violent tone. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's not possible. You can use the same content without reaching offensive expressions against anyone. The references to hangings and handcuffs are absolutely to be censored. (Senator Airola approaches the PD Group desks. The quaestors intervene). They refer, in fact, to a concept of people's justice which is contrary to our path of rule of law. Every behavior must be seen in its context. Since I have been subjected to various questions about behaviors that are not too suited to the dignity of these institutions, I will examine everything because there are videos and then we will see what will happen, in the sense that if there have been disrespectful behaviors, they will be duly censored.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u58	CANGINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to leave it to the record that my voting arrangements, along with that of Senator Balboni and Senator Ronzulli, did not work. Of course, we would have voted against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u59	The President of the 3rd Permanent Commission, Senator Petrocelli, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on draft laws no. 257 and 702.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u60	Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Emigration of the Senate has adopted a unified text on the measure, which has not, however, been dealt with subsequently in the Commission. If the general debate were to take place in this House, as envisaged by the Conference of Leaders, I would suggest that you consider this very text as a reference for the work. That is what I must report to the House on the order of business in the Commission. We are available at any time to do the necessary insights.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what Senator Petrocelli has said, the draft laws will be discussed without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u64	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, following Mr Petrocelli's report, I do not understand how we will proceed with the measure. Are we going to proceed today without the rapporteur and, therefore, with President Petrocelli taking charge of the report or is there a different proposal? I'm sorry, but I just don't understand. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and I personally care very much about this measure and we have called for it several times. I simply did not understand how we intend to proceed and I ask you if you can kindly help us to clarify.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u65	I would like to inform you that the question of suspensive QS1 has been raised. In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the suspensive question, in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u68	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the majority in order to briefly explain the suspensive issue that has been raised. In the light of the analysis of the texts, as has been reported by the President of the Commission, we believe that a further period of deepening is appropriate here, precisely because there are some issues within the Convention that we believe should be deepened in order to avoid ambiguity. Problems could be created in particular with regard to the translation of the text of the Convention, which could give rise to incorrect interpretations, and also to the text transposing ratification. 11:10 a.m. (Pellegrini Emanuele followed). We therefore consider it appropriate here to support the motion to suspend the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u71	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, before we give our opinion, I would really like to understand what is going on behind this Lighthouse Convention. The Senate Culture Commission voted in five minutes, unanimously, and all the groups voted in favour of the measure: this was the case last autumn. The President of the Italian delegation to the Council of Europe, who is a member of the Chamber of the 5 Star Movement Group, has personally undertaken, in my presence and all other members of the delegation, to proceed to such ratification. We are talking about a text, colleagues of the League, which talks about the valorization of traditions and identities. It is truly a mystery; we are making an incredible figure in front of the world, putting the measure on the agenda every week and sending it back to the next week. I have the impression that Parliament does not have the freedom to decide, because the text is brought to the House, then if someone is in favour of it, and if someone is against it, they do not vote for it, if the majority will be in favour, if the majority of the senators will be against it. There is no deepening to be done, but I do not say that, as your colleagues say, of all the groups (with whom I would ask you to consult in the short term over the next five minutes) who were present in the Culture Committee and who approved it. If they have approved it, it means that deepening is not necessary. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Therefore, let us not take ourselves for the backdrops, because the respect of this institution - on which we heard beautiful words a few minutes ago - is exercised in deeds and behavior. We see that we have respect for these institutions, for ourselves, for the role of this country and for our being founding members of the Council of Europe. Let us play our part and become the protagonists of international politics in terms of cultural policies, rather than being the bearded figure that we have been doing for months now every week. Please stop here, we approve or reject this ratification and we continue to take care of something else, otherwise we will go on for five years to deepen: it is a story that we have already lived. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u72	Thank you, Senator Rampi, the recommendation for a proper language applies to you too, and of course I was not referring to Barbina.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u75	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, we are not abstaining on the idea of suspending, and I believe that there is nothing wrong with it, because this is a subject which has long been in the public eye. I am referring to the connection between betting and sports results. [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] Isn't that what we're talking about? I've got the wrong bill, Mr. President. I humbly apologize.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u76	So I guess you're mutating his consideration, too. Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question QS1, tabled by Senators Romeo and Patuanelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u77	The next item is the debate on draft law No 773. The rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u80	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I asked for the floor before the previous item on the agenda was closed, because, if I interpret our Rules of Procedure correctly, Rule 93, paragraph 6, states that the Senate is required to give its opinion first on the suspension and then, if it is adopted, on the duration of the suspension. So each group can of course make a proposal. We therefore want to know, in particular from those who have submitted the suspensive proposal, what suspensive proposal and therefore what temporal delay we are talking about.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u81	Senator Ferrari, the question is in these terms. Surely the question of the duration could be raised during the debate on the suspension itself, in which a representative of his Group spoke. At this point, it will be addressed at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u82	Mr. President, I don't want to stare. However, since it says in the Rules of Procedure that another vote is scheduled after the vote, you tell me when I could speak on the order of business. You have rightly continued to read the agenda and have moved on to the next item, but I was only able to raise my hand at that time after the vote. It was not correct that this point was referred to by Senator Rampi, because it was being pronounced on the suspension. I would like to ask the House to take a decision on the duration, as provided for in Rule 93 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u85	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, on this point I regret to point out that the reference to Rule 93 (6), which was made by my colleague, is partial and I have to read completely the reference paragraph: In the competition of several proposals aimed at deferring the discussion to different dates, the Senate is called to decide first on the suspension and then, if it is approved, on the duration of the suspension itself. In this case, there are no more proposals or different dates: the measure that has already been voted has been postponed to the Commission, which will carry out the necessary in-depth studies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Ferrari (PD). There's no time indication.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u86	Yes, in this case it seems to me that, according to the interpretation of the President of the Commission, who had already been pointed out to me, that point had to be put if there were alternative proposals. In any case, the Presidency is very much aware of this issue, because it is often debated at the Conference of Leaders. It will therefore be dealt with very carefully and, as far as I am concerned, very rigorously in determining the points. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u87	Mr President, today I am being asked to report to the House on draft law No 773 as the sole rapporteur for the Joint Justice and Foreign Affairs Commissions. I think it is worth pointing out that this draft law, which brings about the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the handling of sports competitions, made in September 2014 in the Swiss citizen of Magglingen, was approved by the Commissions meeting without any change and the mandate to report to the rapporteur to the Assembly was unanimously conferred. Before examining the content of the Convention and the draft law of ratification, I would like to stress that the need for a specific conventional text on the subject comes down from the awareness that the increased commercialization of sporting events and their media exposure have produced, especially in recent years, a substantial increase in economic interests linked to some sporting results, encouraging the development of a legal circuit of betting, as well as a substantial illegal market. The latter, in particular, is potentially able to offer users particularly high performance margins and is therefore attractive to criminal organisations interested in the manipulation of sports competitions, profits and the possibility of money laundering of illegal origin. Some corruptive phenomena in sports are already the subject of international conventions, such as the United Nations Convention on Transnational Organised Crime, signed in Palermo in 2000 and the United Nations Convention against Corruption signed in Merida in 2003, texts which, however, do not expressly consider cases of manipulation of sports competitions, since they are outside the context of transnational crime and the notion of corruption in its own sense. Turning to the substance of the Convention which is being ratified, I would remind you that it has been prepared by a special intergovernmental drafting group and is specifically aimed at preventing, detecting and combating match-fixing, manipulation and any possible intentional and irregular changes in the conduct or outcome of sports competitions. More in detail, the Convention consists of 41 articles divided into IX chapters. Chapter I identifies the purpose, guiding principles and relevant definitions. Chapter II, in addition to regulating aspects relating to prevention, cooperation and other measures that the Parties may take in relation to the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, including measures relating to the financing of sports organisations, those relating to the control authorities on betting and those relating to sports betting operators, also provides for an obligation for States Parties to identify and adopt, in accordance with the applicable law and the jurisdiction concerned, the most appropriate means of combating illegal betting, such as blocking or direct or indirect limitation of access to and closure of remote betting operators; blocking financial flows between illegal betting operators and consumers; prohibiting operators from publicising their illegal activities; raising consumer awareness of the risks associated with illegal betting. Chapter III regulates the exchange of information between the public authorities and the sports organisations involved, including the identification of a national operational platform in the fight against the manipulation of sporting events which will act as an information centre, collecting and transmitting relevant data to the authorities and organisations concerned. Chapters IV and V lay down the rules on substantive criminal law, judicial matters and criminal proceedings, establishing that the handling of sporting competitions is expressly sanctioned by the national law of the States Parties, as well as the intentional activities of competition in the commission of crimes provided for in the Convention. With regard to criminal and administrative penalties, Chapter VI provides, in addition to those charged to natural persons, for indirect penalties for legal persons and others of an administrative nature. The following Chapter VII regulates the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, inter alia by providing that States Parties cooperate with each other as widely as possible for investigative and procedural purposes in accordance with existing national and international instruments, as well as in matters of extradition and judicial assistance in criminal matters, under applicable international, regional and bilateral treaties. The last two chapters of the text cover all matters relating respectively to the verification of the implementation of the Convention and the final provisions. As far as the draft law ratifying the Convention is concerned, it consists of seven articles which provide respectively for the authorisation of ratification, enforcement order, the sports betting regulatory authority, measures relating to the application of ancillary penalties, offences relating to fraud in sport competitions, abuse of gambling and gambling by means of prohibited equipment, the financial invariance clause and the entry into force. The provisions set out in Articles 3 to 5 of the draft are particularly relevant in this respect, which introduce rules for the adaptation of national law to the Convention's provisions. More in detail, Article 3 implements Article 9 of the Convention in Italian law, which calls on States to identify an authority responsible for the regulation of sports betting and for the application of measures to combat manipulation and competition. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u88	Colleagues, it is difficult to hear the speech from the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u89	Mr Pellegrini Emanuele, rapporteur. Thank you very much, President. The competent authority shall be identified by the legislator in the Customs and Monopolies Agency. I would remind you that the Agency, as the administration of monopolies, is the guarantor of legality and security in the field of gaming and carries out functions of control over the production and sale of tobacco, in order to ensure the regular influx of taxes. In particular, in the gaming sector, the Agency shall verify the regularity of the behaviour of operators and the fight against illegal gambling. Article 4 instead implements Article 25 of the Convention, which requires States Parties to take the necessary legislative measures to allow the seizure and confiscation of assets, documents and instruments used to commit crimes or the profits of criminal offences, including by attacking valuable assets equivalent to such profits. To this end, the bill governs the confiscation, even for equivalent, of the goods constituting the product, profit or price of the crime. With the insertion in Law No 401 of 1989 of a new article 5-a, the provision provides that, in the event of a conviction or plea for one of the crimes provided for by law, the judge must order the criminal confiscation and, if this is not possible, order the confiscation of goods of equivalent value to those constituting the product, profit or price of the crime and of which the offender has the availability also indirectly or by interposed person. In this regard, I would like to point out to you that the Institute of Equivalence Confiscation aims to prevent the economic use of property of criminal origin from allowing the culprit to guarantee the advantage that is the specific object of the criminal design. The confiscation affects, in fact, sums of money, property or other utility of which the guilty person has the availability for a value corresponding to the price, product or profit of the crime and is provided by the legislator only for certain criminal cases, when it has taken action and it is impossible to physically identify the things that actually constitute the price, the product or the profit. The institute is currently governed by Article 322-b of the Criminal Code, inserted in the Chapter on the crimes of public officials against public administration. This provision expressly refers to the second paragraph of the new Article 5-a. In particular, the reference to the special law to the third paragraph of Article 322-b of the Criminal Code means that it is for the judge, in the sentence of conviction, to determine the sums of money or to identify the goods subject to confiscation. Article 5 then introduces, in Legislative Decree 231 of 2001, the administrative responsibility of legal persons for offences of fraud in sport competitions and for the abuse of games and bets, thus implementing Article 23 of the Convention. In detail, the draft law inserts a new article 25-duodecies in the catalog of crimes that are a prerequisite for the administrative responsibility of the institutions, providing specific financial penalties for the commission of fraud offences in sports competitions and illegal betting. The reform provides that, in the case of a commission of crimes, the institution shall be subject to the pecuniary administrative penalty for payment of a sum corresponding to a maximum of 500 allowances; in the case of infringements, the institution shall be subject to the pecuniary administrative penalty for payment of a sum corresponding to a maximum of 260 allowances. Moreover, paragraph 2 of Article 5 provides, for the only sentence relating to crimes, the application of the interdicttive sanctions for the institution provided for by Article 9 of Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001 for a duration not less than one year. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u90	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Institute "Prealpi" in Saronno, in the province of Varese, and the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Luigi Fantini" in Vergato, in the province of Bologna, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u91	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few brief comments on the measure that we are about to vote on. The text, which will of course see the support of our Group, aims to authorize the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the handling of sports competitions made in Magglingen on 18 September 2014, thus laying down provisions for the adaptation of our legal order to the requirements contained in it. The Convention that we are called to ratify, in fact, aims to bring together all the preventive and sanctioning measures to set an effective and global fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, meaning with these locations are not the alterations of the competitions in which they compare athletes or teams aimed at changing the final result, but more generally also all possible intentional and irregular changes of the conduct or the result of a race, designed to interfere in whole or in part with the constitutively unpredictable character of the latter in order to obtain an undue personal advantage or in favour of third parties. We spoke of a due act, but I believe that Parliament's task is also to seize opportunities. The measure under consideration allows us to understand the signals that come from society, because the picture, from 2014 to today, has changed: we started from a great media exhibition of sporting events... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u93	Senator, I'm sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, please, we cannot hear the speech by my colleague, who is the only member in the general debate. I really beg you to allow him to do the surgery. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u94	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was talking about the changed painting. We started from a great media exhibition, with a consequent economic relapse, of sporting events, which produced a proliferation of sports betting, but also elements of corruption, which disturbed the picture of the sportsbook industry. From 2014 to today this picture has changed completely: attention has shifted from the world of professionalism to the world of amateurism. Interventions in the world of football have become the subject of the interest of organised crime, but above all these interventions have become tangiblely important also in the world of youth sport. It is news of this last period that of an activity that has affected the youth basketball, which has even received the attention of the undersecretary Giorgetti, who has spoken of a "tumour" that is leading, within the world of sport, a genetic mutation that can produce devastating effects. I believe that our task is also to try to understand how to draw inspiration from this ratification, to turn it into a positive one and to identify legislative measures that can shelter this affair which, in fact, has shifted the attention of organised crime from the world of professional sport to the world of amateur sport. Therefore, as a League we can only marry this measure, sharing both its primary purpose, that is, the approval of a specific instrument able to unite and integrate all the preventive and repressive measures already envisaged in the field of corruption and recycling for an effective fight against the manipulation of sports competitions, and the secondary one, that is, the strengthening of international cooperation. I'd like to go back for a moment and talk about the opportunities we've been given. The measure under discussion identified the competent authority in the Customs and Monopolies Agency. However, on this point, I hope that the Agency can intervene as soon as possible with regard to both repressive and preventive activities. We know nothing of what has been done, and we would like to know more, in order to try to understand how to influence, even from a legislative point of view, the possible correction of the measures that might strengthen the text we are debating today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u95	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u98	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the measure, in agreement with its aims. As demonstrated by the evolution of sports activities and their betting, there are a number of problems that need to be addressed. Already the colleague who has spoken in general debate has emphasized one aspect, namely that it is the Agency of Customs and Monopolies for Italy that has to deal with them, intervening in advance and subsequently in order to counter the clandestine bets. In addition, the public administrations concerned must implement the provisions of the measure. I would like to make just one request, and I fully agree with the measure. If there is to be effective activity, perhaps we need to take further legislative action and give the necessary instruments and funding to the Customs Agency and the relevant public administrations in order to be able to intervene consistently in this matter. We therefore vote strongly in favour of this measure, making this point and asking the Government to think of an intervention in the coming months. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u101	SBROLLINI (PD). Mr President, the measure we are going to vote on today had already been voted on at first reading in the House at the end of 2017, but then it did not reach the Senate because of the end of the legislature. This is a text that we also consider very important, because with the ratification measure we are going to hit a phenomenon that is constantly growing throughout Europe since the 1980s. With the new instruments, we intend to combat, prevent, identify and combat at European level the manipulation of sports competitions, illegal betting and corruption in such a strategic sector also for our country and for Europe, as well as gambling, in all the forms that unfortunately are not only growing ever since the 1980s, but - alas - are also increasingly in the hands of organized crime. As we read in the newspapers and see in television shows, many professional athletes are often involved. For this reason, the Democratic Party had already brought the measure to the attention of the House of Deputies in the last parliamentary term and will vote in favour today, because it is necessary not only to put a brake on it, but above all to start giving positive messages and putting the subject of sports ethics and financial fair play at the forefront. We hope that all countries will be able to ratify and implement this Convention in order to give a high and valuable message to sport. For this reason, in the last legislature we invested in sports education, rules, discipline and sacrifice, as well as in the search for positive testimonials and athletes who do so much for our country, making us proud in the world. It is therefore necessary to strike and counter, with uniform instruments throughout Europe and strong measures, not just sanctions, what is really a crime. This can only be done if there is a European platform that can stop financial flows between illegal betting operators and consumers in time. Therefore, it is necessary to intervene from the start and, at all costs, to block the facilitations and contributions to those who have made themselves responsible for these crimes. We love sport and want it to stay out of crime. We are so convinced of what we will not only vote to do with the measure, but we also hope that this issue will become truly strategic in other measures that we will examine both in the relevant Commissions and in this House. In conclusion, I repeat that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u104	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Convention that we are about to ratify has been examined on a timely basis by the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini. In my view, it would be useful to clarify the context in which we are operating. The last thirty years have seen an enormous acceleration and progress in the technology of information exchange and communication, commonly called the Internet. This has contributed to an enormous increase in the collection of sports betting at national and international level, thus making this sector of the economy for organised crime even more attractive. On the other hand, the ease of communication also makes the sportsbook environment vulnerable for the criminals and those who want to distort the system arsonously. Staying in Italy, according to the journalistic agency on the game market, in 2017 the value of collecting sports betting - I repeat, only in Italy - exceeded 10 billion euros. Of these, 4.327 million were raised by the Customs and Monopolies Agency alone. The data can be obtained from the Blue Book of the Customs and Monopolies Agency. In addition, with reference to the collection of sports betting of its own competence, an extremely significant increase trend is outlined. In 2015 the Agency collected, only for sports betting, just over 2 billion euros; in 2016 the figure was more than 3 billion; in 2017 it reached more than 4 billion. The data for 2018 of which I have (not final) seem to confirm those for 2017. As a result, the sportsbook environment is vulnerable and we are aware of this, even at a historical level, not only for the amounts and at a possible level. Which one of us doesn't remember the soccer scandal? Some of us may also remember the phenomenon of totonero and its 1980 survey. The economic impact, but also of image, on the entire country of these criminal phenomena is evident to all. To suppress such distortions in this sector, which for the Italian economy and also for the Italian State - let us not hide it - is fundamental, we point out and we particularly appreciate the combined provisions of Articles 5, 12 and 13 of the Convention itself. I am referring to Article 5, which provides for the risk analysis of individual sports competition, Articles 12 and 13, which provide for the exchange of information at national level between all the players involved, both internationally and in addition the fact that individual states must set up a platform that is a true hub of information for internal and external use compared to the State itself. The preventive phase is fundamental and we hope that the repressive phase will become effective. The risk of manipulation of these events goes beyond - I repeat - the economic sphere, which also remains significant, investing the image of our country and also that of all those who have nothing to do with crime but who remain dirty about it. For this reason, this platform and system put in place by the Convention collect the favourable opinion of the Salvini Premier-Sardinian Action Party Group, on behalf of which I would like to vote in favour of the Convention itself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u107	AIMI (FI-BP). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is only a brief one to leave a record of the position of our political movement, Forza Italia, on the measure we consider to be absolutely important. A great deal has already been said by the rapporteur, and that is why I am not going into the details of the Convention, which we have also drawn up, discussed and deepened in the third Commission (foreign affairs) and of which we share - as a primary element - the objectives. The aim of the Council of Europe Convention is essentially to combat the manipulation of sports competitions in order to protect - and this is the essential point - the integrity and ethics of sport in its autonomy. That is why we subscribe to the principles underlying the Convention. They range from educating athletes to raising awareness of the facts in question and, above all, to transparency - this is another important element - of public funding and also monitoring of sports betting operators. Of course, there could not be a lack of exchange of information that must be in this type of investigation when it is carried out. Another aspect that we consider very important is mentioned in Articles 15 and 18, which contain the provisions on substantive criminal law, inspired by the need for the manipulation of sporting competitions to be expressly sanctioned by national law. The Convention does not contain elements, it only gives an indication, but our substantive criminal law is broad enough to cover all the anti-juridical behavior that can be put in place. For these reasons, Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u110	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, from an early age sport has been presented as a healthy competition aimed at developing in each of us the sense of team and group as a social example of individuals, not as such, but as part of a community. The values of friendship, solidarity, healthy competition, that is, the ability to deal jointly with any obstacles that may arise, should be a founding element of our civil society, without discrimination of any kind. Unfortunately, however, with the passing of the years you risk losing this vision, because they can take over some dynamics mostly foreign to the original spirit of any sporting competition. The competitions, in fact, often seem to be at the center of a business, especially in relation to those sports of greater media exposure, and this certainly favored the proliferation of legal and illegal economic interests related to the results of the competitions, reducing the autonomous value of sport. The induced that the Italian sports system - and not only - has generated consists of a proliferation of significant economic interests, to the point that around it has been developing a substantial illegal market aimed at interfering with the smooth running of the competition. In fact, the market for illegal betting offers users particularly high profit margins, which can attract not only individual criminals but also criminal organizations that use these channels to launder money from criminal activities. The purpose of the Council of Europe Convention on the handling of sporting competitions is precisely to prevent, detect and combat match-fixing and the subsequent manipulation of the latter, or any possible intentional and irregular changes in the conduct or outcome in order to obtain an undue personal advantage or in favour of third parties. The Convention, in other words, aims to respond to all possible illegal interferences that have actually emptied the original meaning of sport and that is why the ratification measure was unanimously approved by the Commission without any amending proposal. Such a political attitude testifies to the will of this Assembly, and therefore of the Government of Change, to approve with speed and unanimity a measure that serves the country to protect the sports world from the danger of infiltration of organized crime aimed at the commission of crimes of fraud and corruption. The ratification of the Convention, within an international regulatory framework, is an ad hoc instrument capable of bringing together preventive and repressive measures for an effective fight against the manipulation of competitive competitions and at the same time enhancing the profile of international cooperation. Each State is therefore required to adopt instruments for internal prevention and coordination, for the education and awareness of operators and for the exchange of information with the other countries of the Council of Europe, starting, for example, from the identification of a national operational platform which, in accordance with internal rules, acts not only as a centre for the state linking of the collected data and sorting to the other subjects involved, but also informs the international authorities about the occurrence of possible crimes and the need for cooperation. The aim of the Convention is therefore to complete a path which has already begun since 1989 and in particular to tighten up the regime of the patrimonial consequences resulting from the criminal offences mentioned above. The bill of ratification extends the ablative measure of confiscation by equivalent also to cases of abusive betting and sports fraud. To date, the criminal cases in comment are subject to the general discipline of the security measures provided for in Article 240 of the Criminal Code, thus not allowing the confiscation by equivalent of the price or profit of the crime, resulting in a lesser ability of aggression to the illicit capital accumulated through the conduct of sports fraud and illegal management of betting on sporting events. At the same time, the legislative decree n. 231 of 2001, providing for the administrative responsibility of companies and bodies to deal with the application of this institute to the crimes in question, in order to determine a greater ability to attack the illicit capital accumulated, precisely, through the conduct of sports fraud and illegal betting management on sporting events. This bill of ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the handling of sports competitions we want to dedicate to all generations who, wearing the jersey of their athlete, are certain to witness a true spectacle of sport, without any kind of external conditioning, as sport must be synonymous with prevention and legality. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stars will vote in favour of the adoption of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u111	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u114	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to bring to the attention of the House a tragic episode which happened last weekend in Venera di Sanguinetto, a town in the province of Verona, in Basso Veronese; a tragic episode which saw a 20-year-old Ghanaian driver, an asylum seeker, overwhelmed by a car. I point out, precisely, the situation of the CAS located on that street, the Regional Road 10: an extraordinary reception center located in that reality since 2016. At the time, as mayor of the neighbouring municipality of Concamarise, I expressed my dissent because the center was - and still is - in a very dangerous area: the young people, who know little about our road code, cross the road that is very busy, and risk their lives, as risk the same motorists who run it, putting in crisis an activity of the territory. In the meantime, I'd like to offer my condolences to the countrymen and the family of the dead boy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, I use this House to bring my own motion, which I hope the Presidency will also attack, to the Ministry of the Interior, because the situation must be completely resolved. The CAS, where it is, can't fit. Among other things, in that reality there is an important work activity that has been taking place in our territory for more than fifty years, a catering activity. We have a building complex in the front of which there is the Hotel Paradise, while in the back there is a restaurant. On the square in front, from which you enter the restaurant, there is this work with ten workers asylum seekers who, not being aware of our rules, often find themselves in poor conditions, discovered in the summer period and often found also by residents to urinate on the square. In order to resolve the problem of the safety of these children, of the inhabitants of the territory for road traffic and for the protection of this work, I ask the Presidency to report this situation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u117	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I rise to ask two questions about the merger process between Alstom and Siemens, culminating in the European Commission's refusal to authorise it. I am talking about questions 3-00594 of 12 February 2019 and 3-00483 of 22 December 2018. In the first question, we asked the government to keep a close eye on the fusion path that seemed to be imminent. In the second, we asked the Government to monitor in the light of the lack of fusion and, therefore, of the industrial reorganization that will result. In recent days the President of the Count Council, speaking in the Chamber in the matter time, has replied that the Government will watch and monitor to avoid criticalities, which we are obviously very grateful for. In my question we paid more attention to the need to ask the company for a comparison with the trade union representatives on company strategies and for certainty on industrial plans. The feeling is that it is unclear the scenario in which, in the light of the lack of merger, the companies are reorganizing. From this point of view I would like to ask the answer to the question, but above all I would ask that the Government be an active part of a discussion table with the property and the trade union representatives, because we believe that the workers have the right to know what is the perspective in which the reorganization of the company takes place in the light of the failure to merge. In fact, we believe that the themes of company strategies and of the comparison on industrial plans should be requested by the Government to the property, because the workers have the right to know what is the perspective of work in the individual plants. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u120	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to the events which have recently taken place in the province of Milan. In particular, the day before yesterday in the province of Milan two serious blood facts marked the chronicles. There were two murders of elderly people in the street, probably not connected to each other. It's two armed assaults with people shooting at people. I stress this because I have not read any reaction from the Minister of the Interior who, on the other hand, I believe must pay attention to an unprecedented and worrying situation for the territories of Rozzano and Basiglio. If the Minister of the Interior, instead of dealing with all the human scibile or the elections that follow in the country, could carve out a few minutes to focus on his own work, it would be useful. Already the idea is being passed, with self-defense and its propaganda, that the State is not able to defend people at home and therefore gives itself the message "defend yourself." If the same answer were given in Milan as in Naples, where such things happen and blood is repeated on the street, it would be wrong: the answer cannot be that citizens have to manage to defend themselves everywhere. We need the Minister of the Interior to be the Minister of the Interior, to pay attention to it and to work to ensure security. The Minister of the Interior is very committed and attentive to showing the iron fist against asylum seekers and NGOs. It would be time to give a clear message also to say that the State is committed to ensuring the safety of citizens and that there is a Ministry, precisely that of the Interior, which deals with this and not with propaganda, is concerned with combating crime and not policies for public transport of the City of Milan, and that in the face of events such as these raises the alarm, takes initiatives and does not pretend anything. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u123	LONARDO (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I am here to make a heartfelt appeal to the Minister of Health to devote some of his precious time to solving the many problems of the Hospital of Benevento and that of Sant'Agata dei Goti. I invite you to answer the many written questions that I have tabled, concerning precisely the serious situation of my city: the first question is the 4-00022 of 11 April 2018; the second is the 4-00199 of 5 June; the third is the 3-00179 of 7 August, the fourth is the 4-00821 of 7 November and the fifth is the 4-01327 of 26 February. While I am waiting for answers, I was given to learn from the loud voice of the President of the De Luca Region, on February 16 last, in the margins of the event of the inaugural ceremony "Sannio Falanghina, European Wine City 2019" in Benevento, that the Minister still does not formally approve of the Hospital Plan and the Plan for Hospital and Health Building, with its release of funds. Moreover last Saturday, I had a confrontation-meeting on the state of health of Beneventus, with representatives of unions FIALS, FSI-USAE, CGL-FP, NURSING-UP, who during the meeting represented me the difficulty of interacting with Minister Grillo. In fact, they too have sent numerous notes to represent the serious situation. The first letter was sent on 19 October 2018, and the other letters were sent: 15 January 2019, 18 January, 24 January, 4 February and 14 February. I do not think you should add anything else, because what I have already said is very clear with regard to the work of this Minister in the face of immense difficulties. I am a representative of the people and the unions represent the people. Evidently this Government does not like to interact with the people: that is what I have to say. I also learn that the Minister is going to the various first aid facilities; I therefore formally invite you to come to the other Campania, because Benevento belongs to the other Campania (it is a very welcoming city), so that you can see for yourself what the situation is. The situation is very serious and the answers do not come. At this point, all we can do is arise. I do so in the way that democracy allows me, and I will of course do so whenever there is a sitting in this House, if the Minister does not intervene to take action. All I'm doing is inviting you to look at a situation that is very serious. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u124	The Presidency will undertake to submit its requests, Senator Lonardo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u127	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I have the honour to speak today also as a new president of the Interparliamentary Group on Friendship Italy-Azerbaijan, to remind this House and the country of one of the tragedies of contemporary history, little or almost nothing known. Just in these days (it was February 26) it is the twenty-seventh anniversary of the Khojaly massacre, where many Azerbaijani civilians were killed during the war of Nagorno Karabakh. According to various estimates, 613 civilians died during the attack of the Armenian army on the village of Khojaly, while many others were taken captive. Human Rights Watch described the Khojaly massacre as the biggest and most horrible massacre of the Nagorno Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. For over twenty years, with the military occupation by Armenia of the Nagorno-Karabakh area, Azerbaijan region, and the seven surrounding Azerbaijani regions, Armenia has invaded about 20 percent of Azerbaijan's territory. When it comes to the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, it is important to remember that there are four UN Security Council resolutions (Nos. 822, 853, 874 and 884 of 1993) calling for the withdrawal of the armed forces of Armenia from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. These resolutions were not followed up. It should also be recalled that the European Parliament resolution of 23 October 2013 strongly supports the resolution of the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan through the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions. I would like to remind you that the context is that of the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the emergence of the many ethnic groups that formed the union and that, after the collapse of the Soviet bloc, they found themselves in war with each other. Unfortunately, we have already seen in the Balkans how the wars triggered by the independenceist movements of the former Soviet Republics created real genocides, which, perhaps more than in other contexts, struck the population, with the intention of annihilating one ethnicity than another. The war of Nagorno Karabakh is generally little known, but still lasts today. During the last parliamentary term we had the opportunity to express our concern about the re-emergence of the conflict; in fact, between 2 and 5 April 2016, Armenians and Azerbaijani clashed at the borders between the two regions, with nearly 180 deaths among the military of the camps. For this reason I hope and hope for a new phase of initiatives aimed at promoting dialogue between the actors in the field, so as to resolve definitively a conflict that has been dragging for too long and that, it must be said, heavily influences the societies of the countries involved, with a continuous state of latent war, of which, as is evident, the citizens, democratic rules and the normal life of the country are suffering. That is why, Mr President, I hope - and I will encourage it in this respect - that our Government of Change will take the initiative to promote dialogue and soon reach a completed peace, in accordance with UN resolutions, finally giving peace to that martyred region and ensuring justice to the victims of war, so as to finally overcome the aftermath of the Cold War. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u128	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Hotel Institute "Domenico Rea" in Nocera Inferiore, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u131	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor because I wanted to draw the attention of the House to the fact that there is a great deal of talk about poverty, poverty and all the issues relating to the effects of the crisis that has lasted ten years in our country, some remedies that exist, but that have probably had little attention on the part of Parliament for the temporal contingency. I'll explain. Today, when we talk about the debt of families or the debt charged to people, we are faced with fairly important numbers. The latest surveys give an average of about EUR 20,000 per head; I am not referring to public debt, but to debts due to loans or loans that families cannot pay and, in general, to the fact that families are in difficulty because they are reported by CRIF etc. We are faced with people who pay very late the installments of these loans, with the involvement of young people, since age groups range from forty-four to fifty-four years. Moreover, there is even more confusion because the fact that in this last phase the credits have also been sold by the banks has determined that, even if they want, the families or the individuals, who want to try to understand how to do with the house sent to auction, no longer have an interlocutor. This topic concerns the way in which in the phase that we are going through, where we go out and enter from a revolving door in a crisis that has so many faces and faces, we must look at the rubble that we have left behind in these ten years and those that will come. A fundamental point of passage is the question of the fact that a person must find a certain way from the regulatory point of view to do what in the event of bankruptcy is called exdebitation, i.e. paying as much as he can and closing with debts. This provision has passed to the examination of the competent Justice Commissions of the House and the Senate during the period of maneuvering, but has not focused attention on the importance of the topic. However, there is a possibility of continuing to intervene, and I believe that Parliament, starting with the Senate, must again focus on the issue, for a comprehensive deepening of this legislative decree, which comes from a delegated law, because it is very important for the management of debt and the difficulties that ordinary families face today. People who have gone through the crisis and who have problems ask to have a way out of their difficulties and that was what the so-called suicide-saving law had to do. We absolutely need to identify simple procedures to put a point to a period of difficulty, so that these people can return to work, even as self-employed people, in everyday life. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u134	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to express my outraged dismay at the outcome of the work of the House's Committee of Knowledge on xylella. We are faced with a premeditated warning act made through false and pretentious statements. In particular, my colleague Giuseppe L'Abbate, the one who was supposed to defend the interests of the citizens of Apulia, the real farmers of Puglia, those who for generations jealously guard the wonderful olive trees and the precious olive oil of Puglia, sold all this to support the dirty interests of the usual known in Puglia.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u135	I apologize, Senator, but you cannot speak on the proceedings of the House of Deputies. I therefore call on you to adjust your speech and to intervene on general issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u136	I get it, but I'm telling a story that happened. Only Venetian Member Sara Cunial opposed the Commission's indecent conclusions with her vote, at least preventing its unanimous adoption. Yet, thanks to this result, millions of healthy olive trees risk being cut unnecessarily and the Apulian landscape risks being totally destroyed. The centuries-old and monumental olive trees will be replaced with low olive trees...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u137	I'm sorry to interrupt you again, Senator, and then I'll have your time recovered. You can of course talk about the subject, but you cannot go into the substance of the work of the House Commissions. I think I have made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u138	As I said, in Puglia the centuries-old and monumental olive trees will be replaced with low olive trees of no value (leccino and fabulous), however potential bearers of xylella, whose cultivation - unlike the typical olive trees of the place - requires a water requirement that the Apulian territory will never be able to assure. A total madness that will lead to the ruin of the production of the precious Apulian oil to give space to intensive exploitations of little value. To justify all this it is said that one can only eradicate, there are no cures. All unworthy falsehoods. True, science has never said that xylella cannot be fought and won. In Puglia there are valiant researchers who, in the total and guilty indifference of the local National Research Council (CNR), have always moved from the sole aim of perceiving public money to self-maintain their own utility and self-referentiality, carry out experiments for years that have shown exactly the opposite. Think of the Scortichini method or that, completely biological, of the Nuovoulivo. All this because it is absolutely useless to cut trees, as authoritatively supported by scientists, such as Professor Marco Nuti, Professor Margherita Ciervo, Dr. Margherita D'Amico, Professor Domenico Pierangeli, University of Basilicata, such as Professor Gianluigi Rana, Professor Donatella Battaglia, Doctor and Researcher Laura Scrano, Professor Michele Perniola, Professor Cristos Xiloyannis, Professor Patrizia Falabella. Good practices are needed for the prevention to which public funds should be allocated to support farmers. Then we need the courage to give space to the Scortichini method and the New Olive Method. The xylella can be defeated by the ingenuity of our scientists and the good practices of our farmers. In any case, cutting olive trees is no good, it does not help to avoid the spread of the bacterium, since the bacterium is present everywhere in 300 species and not only on olive trees and is able to propagate anyway. After all, if the real problem were that of infection, having certainly been at least five years since the announced xylella emergency, the bacteria would have had plenty of time to infect the neighbouring olive trees. Instead, the data of the Region itself indicates that the percentage of infected trees to date does not exceed 1.8%, the same percentage of 2013. So, what emergency are we talking about? This only destroys the image of Puglia in the world, that Puglia that the National Geographic has defined the most beautiful region in the world. What sense does it have to break down millions of trees of olive trees that are largely healthy and thus completely distort the Apulian environment and the same oil production of the Region? A completely incomprehensible position, to the limit of madness, if in reality the intention was not hidden behind it clearly fraudulently to ensure to presumed entrepreneurs in the sector, largely now transformed into bureaucrats of its trade union organizations, European and improper funds, thus causing the total destruction of a nerve sector of Puglia that has always made the quality of its olives and, therefore, of its olive trees the crown of its land and its entrepreneurship. We will continue our commitment to defend Puglia and its healthy agriculture, the environment and the wonderful olive trees that the whole world envies us. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Buccarella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u141	TIRABOCHI (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise to ask for the answer to two questions I had put. I go in order of date, from the most recent to the most dated; the most recent is the 3-00490 of 9 January; the most dated is the 4-01023 of 18 December 2018. Very briefly, starting with the most recent one; at the end of 2018 an international conference on short rentals was held in New York. A sector currently dominated by illegal practices that, on the other hand, if well regulated, could become an integral part of the economy in the sign of social responsibility and economic sustainability, thus banning real estate speculation and bringing the instrument back to its original mission. I therefore ask the Minister of Tourism what he intends to do to implement the principles (about ten) that the international conference had highlighted, in order to promote, on the one hand, the social responsibility of the home sharing and, on the other hand, to combat all the professionals of real estate speculation, as well as to eradicate the rampant tax evasion in this sector of economy, which also produces considerable sums and which cannot be subjected only to the institution imposed on digital services, but must be regulated in a more complete and holistic way, through respect both of binding safety rules - let us think of all that we hoteliers must observe - both of fairer tax regulations that provide for identical levels of taxation for hotels as well. The second question, on the other hand, was addressed to the Minister for the Environment and was based on the consideration of information coming from authoritative press sources, from which it is learned that about 12% of Italian waste is not destined and accumulates without addressing either recycling or disposal because there are not enough plants for selection, regeneration, treatment and energy recovery, which would be necessary to reach 65% of recycling, a percentage required by the European Union, and to go down below 10% of landfill disposal. Therefore, in the light of these considerations, we ask the competent Minister what investments are aimed at supporting a medium- to long-term strategy, on which we also know that our country is lagging behind, that it points to prevention and reuse and that it supports a new industrial course to realize the plants necessary for recycling and incineration that are indispensable in order to give concrete life to the circular economy. Finally, and finally, on the energy transition from fossil to renewable energy, we are asked to know what measures are being taken to support investment so that large investment funds, which we know are those with real money, are aware of the high cost of extracting fossil fuels, invest in renewable energy, thus shifting their cash flows for investment in infrastructure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u144	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking on an internal matter in the Senate. I have already taken some action to point out that, except in such quiet moments as this, in the normal course of the work of the House, the amplification of the audio system is well above the maximum levels laid down by law in the workplace. In the last speech, just now, there was an average of 95 decibels, when the maximum limit is 87. I remember, however, that it is a logarithmic scale for which 8 more points mean about 80 percent more, talking about what the human ear perceives because as far as the intensity of noise is concerned it is greater. However, the human ear is done very well, therefore an increase of ten times the intensity of the noise corresponds "only" to a doubling of the pressure on the ear itself. I have already made this appeal in several ways and I do so here too: here are the senators, there is the staff who has the right, as I think everyone (even the senators), to be in an environment that has no less protection than there may be in a workshop, where above a certain level of noise you should use equipment such as headphones that protect your ears from excessive noise, which would obviously be irrational in this place. There are differences, even depending on the microphone, although I don't know what it depends on. In some cases, in fact, the intervention keeps everything above certain levels and in other cases, instead, you can hear a surgery in more normal tones, regardless of the voice of the speaker. Then, of course, if the speaker raises his voice it is normal that the volume is higher but there must be a device that does not allow to rise above a certain level. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u145	Thank you, Senator Malan, we will forward your request to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u146	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u148	GIAMMANCO (FI-BP). Mr President, I would just like to say that yesterday, during the vote on the decree concerning the income of citizenship and Quota 100, a Member of the Senator of Movimento 5 Stars said that Di Maio went to visit the workers of Blutec, the industrial plant located in Termini Imerese in the province of Palermo, last October, suggesting that the Minister is dealing with these workers. Yes, it is true, the Minister and went to the establishment of the Blutec Termini Imerese in October saying that he would have a meeting with the interested parties at the Ministry of Economic Development in November. But then nothing came of it. Finally, thanks to the protest of the whole area of Termini Imerese, of the mayors in the first person with the leadership of the mayor of Termini Imerese, something has moved, but only a few days ago, later - I repeat - to a great protest before the Ministry of Economic Development here in Rome. All the mayors of the area were present and protested because the workers in the Cassa Integrazione had not been renewed this subsidy (we speak of about 1,000 workers, therefore about 1,000 families in extreme difficulty due to the problems that Blutec is going through). Thanks to this uprising of trade unions and mayors, the Minister of Economic Development finally decided to renew the integration fund for these workers, but for only six months, then until next June. I, as a representative of Forza Italia and as a Sicilian senator, say that it is too little. We, as Forza Italia, demand that the renewal arrives at 31 December of this year and not until 31 June. I hope that Mr Di Maio is sensitive to the cause of these workers because, ladies and gentlemen, everything is fine and it is also okay to make propaganda with the income of citizenship, but we must also think about who already has a job and risks losing it. Given the numbers of our economy, I believe that there is nothing to hope for, so we must not be optimistic, but we must help the workers in difficulty, especially those in the industrial sector, who have seen its production fall. I repeat, I hope that Minister Di Maio will put his heart and head at the many open business crisis tables and I hope that he will take to heart the cause of the workers of Blutec di Termini by extending their integration fund at least until 31 December of this year and not only until the end of June. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u149	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u151	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, with this brief speech, I would ask you to make contact with the representatives of the Government in order to address a situation that I consider to be disgusting and truly unworthy of a civilised country. The island of Linosa in the Pelagie archipelago has been found for two months without more gasoline because, following a check carried out by the fire department, a tag on which there was a freshman number no longer legible was enough to shut down the plant. For two months there has been no more petrol available on this island and, as you can imagine, it is becoming problematic to move the mail, to take the children to school, to carry out the interventions of the medical guard. I mean, it's an unworthy situation in a modern country. No one can intervene to resolve this issue. The inhabitants of the island also addressed the President of the Republic and handed out 210 electoral cards. If we take into account that 450 people live on the island of Linosa and there are about 350 members of the electoral list, their protest is understandable and vibrant; it is a protest of people who cannot be left in the condition of not being able to move. The Sicily Region has made available free transport for eight days to go to the island of Lampedusa and can be supplied, but the island of Lampedusa is more than two hours by ferry on the way and another two hours on the return. The eight days made available by the Region of Sicily were not enough to solve the problem, because the operator of the plant asked the petrol company to replace the plant. It's obviously not fast. A small extension would have sufficed to allow, while replacing the pump, the use of the service, but so - alas - it was not. I ask you to intervene at the Ministry of the Interior and at the Ministry of Economic Development so that they take control of the situation and find a solution, albeit temporary, to allow these Italian citizens to live in a decent, correct and civil way. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u152	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-02-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-95.ana.u153	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.40 a.m.
