ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 20 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to express on behalf of all of us a wish to Senator Matteo Mantero, who on 12 June became the father of a child named Luca. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u3	I communicate that on 21 June 2019 the following bill was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 34 of 30 April 2019 on urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations" (1354).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 July. The afternoon of today and the morning of tomorrow will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions gathered finances and treasure and industry, commerce, tourism on the decree-law economic growth, expiration Saturday 29 June. The discussion in the Assembly of the measure will begin in the afternoon of tomorrow, after the discussion on the proposals for a preliminary ruling, submitted pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, which will take place at 4 p.m. Tomorrow's sitting will end at 9 p.m. There are also sessions without closing hours on Thursday 27th and, if necessary, on Friday 28th. The vote for the election of two members of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, already scheduled for tomorrow at 9.30 am, is postponed to another date to be agreed with the Chamber of Deputies. The question time already scheduled for the afternoon of Thursday 27 will not take place. The week from 1 to 5 July will be devoted mainly to the work of the Commissions. The Assembly will meet on Tuesday 2 July, at 4.30 p.m., for communications from the President on the composition of the Senate following the elections to the European Parliament. In fact, I would point out that, by letters dated 20 and 25 June, Senators Bonfrisco and Stancanelli declared, following the election to the European Parliament, that they should opt for the role of MEP. This option will result in the termination of the mandate of senators. Since these are cases of incompatibility within the meaning of Article 5-a of Law No 18 of 24 January 1979, the Assembly will be able to take note of this with effect from 2 July 2019, the date of the first session of the European Parliament. In the week from 9 to 11 July, the following measures will be discussed: resolution of the Joint Committees on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Italy's participation in international missions; communications by the President, pursuant to Article 126- bis, paragraph 2- bis, of the Regulation, on the bill related to the public finance maneuver concerning deleghes in the field of entertainment; law of European delegation 2018 and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union, where concluded by the Commission; ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs; where concluded by the Commissions: second resolution on the draft Constitutional law on the reduction of the number of parliamentarians; constitutional bill on popular legislative initiative and referendum; and, from the drafting seat, draft law on the protection of victims of gender violence; documents defined by the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of verification of powers. The week from 15 to 19 July will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. In the week from 23 to 25 July will be discussed, where concluded by the Commissions, the draft laws on minimum hourly wage, video surveillance and detachment of Municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region, as well as, when transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies, the decree-law on public order and security. On Thursday 11 and Thursday 25 July, at 3 p.m., the question time will be held. The Conference of Leaders will meet on Tuesday 9 July at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration into the programme of the Senate's work for the months of May and June 2019: - Doc. XXIV, n. 9 - Resolution approved by the Joint Commissions 3a and 4a, pursuant to article 50, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the analytical report on the ongoing international missions and on the state of development cooperation interventions in support of the peace and stabilisation processes, referred to the period 1 October-31 December 2018, also for the purpose of the relative extension for the period 1 January-31 December 2019, deliberated by the Council of Ministers on 23 April 2019
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u6	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted amendments to the current timetable and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 25 July, in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure: [[Wednesday, June 26 h. 16-21 - Deliberation on proposals for a preliminary question concerning the draft law n. 1354 - Decree-Law n. 34, Economic Growth (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law n. 1354 - Decree-Law n. 34, Economic Growth (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 29 June) Thursday 27 " h. 9 Friday 28 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] [[Tuesday, July 2, h. 16,30 - Statement by the President on the composition of the Senate]] The week from 1 to 5 July will be devoted mainly to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday, July 9 h. 16,30-20 - Doc. XXIV, n. 9 - Resolution of the Commissions reunited 3rd and 4th on the participation of Italy in international missions - Communications of the President, pursuant to article 126- bis, paragraph 2-a, of the Regulation on the bill n. 1312 - Delegations in the matter of entertainment and for the modification of the code of cultural goods (Linked to the maneuver of public finance) - Drawing of law n. 944 - Law of European delegation 2018 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Doc. LXXXVI, point 2 - Programme report on Italy's participation in the European Union for the year 2019 (where concluded by the Commission) - Doc. LXXXVII, n. 2 - Consumative report on Italy's participation in the European Union, relating to 2018 (where concluded by the Commission) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Committee - Drawing of constitutional law n. 214-515-805-B - Reduction of the number of parliamentarians (approved in first resolution by the Senate; approved without amendment in first resolution by the Chamber of Deputies) (second resolution of the Senate) (final vote with the absolute majority of the members of the Senate) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of constitutional law n. 1089 - Provisions on popular legislative initiative and referendum (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1200 and related - Protection of victims of gender violence (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity in the field of verification of powers - Union inspection - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Article 151-bis of Regulation (where concluded by the Commission) - Documents defined by the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity in respect of powers - Syndicts - Syndicts - In accordance with Article 151-]] The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and constitutional bill No 1089 (Provisions on popular legislative initiative and referendum) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The week from 15 to 19 July will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 23 July 16,30-20 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n. 310 and related - Salary minimum hours (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 897 and related - Videosurveillance (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public safety (where approved and transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (dates 13 August) - Auditory - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 25, 15) Wednesday 24 " 9.30-20 Thursday 25 " 9.30-20 " 9.30-20]] The terms for the submission of amendments to the draft law n. 310 and related (Minimum hourly salary), n. 897 and related (Videosurveillance) and n. 1144 and related (Common detacco of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) will be established in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1354 (Decree-Law No. 34, Economic Growth) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 944 (Law of European Delegation 2018) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 2 and Doc. LXXXVII, No 2 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u9	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I address you as I address the Government and colleagues of the majority. I believe objectively that the behaviour held in recent weeks on the so-called growth decree-law - which in reality will only create problems for our country and without offering any opportunity - has been incorrect and has again trampled on the right of us parliamentarians, in particular of us senators, to deepen and know the matters on which we are to make decisions. Mr President, this decree-law has been blocked in the House for many weeks because the majority parties and the government had, on the one hand, to make their electoral campaign and, on the other hand, to go on with ridiculous quarrels and positions which had only an external communicative logic. [[Applause from the PD Group]] There is the habit and also the custom between the two rooms to give the other the time necessary to be able to deepen the examination of a measure. That is why the custom and custom has been trampled on by the government and the majority, and today we are faced with a proposal for a timetable, voted by a majority, in which the majority itself even calls for further reductions in the work. We simply asked to be able to work in the Commission to deepen the thousand and more amendments throughout the day of tomorrow, not, of course, preventing the adoption of the measure within the time necessary to ensure that it does not lapse. But perhaps on Thursday night the majority must return home. In fact, we have also been prevented from doing so, and that is also the minimum amount of time we need to table our amendments to the Commission and proceed to the vote. I said that I address you, as I address the Government and the majority, because I believe that the Senate of the Republic deserves to be defended. I say this to all my colleagues in the majority: dangerous and offensive precedents are being created which can undermine the normal, legitimate and democratic development of legislative activity. We must stop this kind of approach, prevent it. We strongly demand that the measure in question can be deepened in the Commission until tomorrow evening, and therefore not much more, as required by the Rules of Procedure. Is that too much to ask? I don't think it means asking too much after you've been lost weeks, weeks and weeks unnecessarily for your diatribes. So, Mr President, the proposal for a timetable that I have left is very simple: I ask you to remain in the Commission tomorrow, as long as you can, and to arrive in the Chamber on the following day. Doesn't seem like much. This seems to me to be a minimal and sensible request to legitimise our parliamentary activity and to maintain the minimum necessary dignity that you and the majority of you are constantly trampling on. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u12	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, we too would like to motivate the House to vote against the timetable. It is clear that the reasons, which are the same already explained, go beyond political controversy, because they are of substance. We are talking about a decree-law, the one on growth, which should bring to our country extra points of GDP. This is an extremely questionable issue, in which we do not believe, but which has been the subject of a debate which the House has had quite another extension, giving those Members of Parliament the opportunity to express themselves and make amendments to the text. I would remind myself, even before you, that it is the measure that decides the fates of Alitalia, a flag company that we risk carrying all over our shoulders, since the decree-law under consideration has cancelled the loan bridge of 900 million euros and has brought 650 in bills, and therefore to the detriment of our pockets, without which we can discuss all this by devoting a sufficient amount of time to the work of the Commission. It is therefore clear that here we are beyond the controversy, Mr President, as it is that by now we are all bored in saying the same things, which we repeat for every measure: this has been said by our colleagues in the House on the decree-law unblocks yards and we do so on the decree-law growth, two of the measures that represent the most characteristic moment of the political activity of this Government, which we contest in total, but on which as a minority we would like to have a say. Once again, however, we are not allowed to do so. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] And then, Mr President, let us be clear about this, and I address my fellow majority leaders, whom I deeply value, but also to the representatives of the Government and my fellow senators who are currently entertaining each other, clearly because they do not consider what I am saying to be interesting enough. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Colleagues, we are still a minority, perhaps annoying and noisy, but it must be democratically heard: enough with the fiction of attention to our reasoning as a Commission. That is enough with the pretence of the times of this House's work which we know very well will never be respected, because we are aware that you will put your trust. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] Don't make fun of us anymore, please. Do not pretend to listen to what we say in the Commission - in which we believe deeply - or to examine our amendments, which instead - as usual - you will treat as waste paper. In fact, this measure will end, as always, in an ordalia of useless trust, which will bring nothing more to our country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] I do not want to make it very long: I only ask you, as President pro tempore, and as I asked President Alberti Casellati, at least to avoid the usual ugly figures. If tomorrow's session, as usual, will be the scene of a fight between the two members of the majority, and then it will have to be postponed from 4 pm to 5 pm, then at 6 pm to 7 pm and finally at 8 pm, tell us first: let's not make bad figures before the eyes of the country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator De Falco.]] Do not let your psychodrama of majority who cannot be together reflect, bounce and produce evil effects on us, on this Parliamentary Assembly, but above all on the country. Mr President, I entrust myself to you and also to the representatives of the Government to prevent this from happening again and again: it is a matter of dignity, of the Government and of this House. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u13	Senator Bernini, beyond the opposition, are there proposals to change the calendar or do yours coincide with those just explained by Senator Marcucci?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u14	Mr President, if the sitting is to start tomorrow at 4 p.m. to be completed at 9 p.m. and these hours will be respected, we agree on that; on everything else, no.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we absolutely do not agree with the timetables that have just been highlighted. Some had built the hypothesis that it would be better to eliminate the perfect bicameralism, since then, above all, the decree-laws and measures were examined only by one branch of Parliament. We continue to be fond of and convinced, instead, of the usefulness of the perfect bicameralism, but it can no longer continue to happen what happened with the decree-law in question and which unfortunately happened also other times. In the case of the Decree-Law on Growth, I have no words: the House's work - between majority debates, amendments by the rapporteurs who went and returned and meetings of the Commission - ultimately lasted almost eight weeks. The result is that the measure comes to the attention of the Senate and already tomorrow, according to the proposal made by the majority, begins the examination of the Assembly, but I believe that most colleagues will not even have time to document themselves. Just those very curious will succeed, for such an articulated measure and omnibus - indeed, hyperomnibus - to document themselves in order to understand what they will have to vote. Therefore, the proposal made by Mr Marcucci, whom we share, is the minimum that we can have a little more time for work in the Commission. Today we held the general debate in the Commission and many amendments were tabled. We must at least have the opportunity to have a little more time to examine the amendments. As we all know, although formally the Government has not yet put trust, the measure expires on June 29, the day of St. Peter and Paul, it must be hesitated at least the previous day and, therefore, almost certainly will be put trust. This means that we will not be able to examine the amendments in this House, we will not be able to discuss them and I remember that this is a very complex measure, although of little importance - in my opinion - which contains an innumerable set of rules, some of which - as I have already said in the Commission today - are also acceptable and of some usefulness, but others harmful. The patches are often worse than the hole. Now there is a bad habit of calling decrees-laws with imaginative names to make it look like they will have some effect. For some time now it has been used to attribute certain names: the one in question is called "growth", but there have been others in the past called in the same way, and it will not - alas - produce many great effects. It contains only an innumerable set of rules. Moreover, the Chamber, even with respect to the initial text of the decree-law that was already quite omnibus, has added many others. So we simply ask that we be able to continue our work in the Commission tomorrow too, so that we can finally bring it to an end and have a debate and a review of the most careful and serene amendments. Let's just ask for a little more time. The measure could come to the House on Thursday. As you can see, Mr President, we are asking for a very simple thing, which would also be compatible - we might not even be responsible for the compatibility - with the planned expiry of the decree-law on Saturday.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u20	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to respond to minorities on the choice of calendarisation. We too regret the fact that the provision has arrived in the Senate so late. The decree-law expires on Saturday and, therefore, we have a few days at our disposal, both in the Commission and in this House. In this regard, since the House has a different Rules, our colleagues in the House, of all the Groups, could decide at the Conference of the Leaders Group to adopt the same Rules of Procedure as there is in the Senate, so at least we would be able to make sure that in the House the measures can come out in good time so that the Senate can also deepen them. In fact, I would not want minorities, since it is convenient to pull it long, to play the game of complaining when the Senate comes late. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] So, let's be serious, let's change the Rules of Procedure to the House, if we all agree, based on the experience of the Senate, which works well, so at least we will have, yes, the perfect bicameralism so called. However, apart from this observation, undoubtedly the intention on our part was to develop it but, being the short time - as we have established - we sincerely do not feel it, beyond the political considerations, to give up, if the decree-law were to expire, the simplification of the mini-Ires, with the rate at 20.5 percent for the countervailable profits, which represents a reduction of 2.2 billion euros of taxes to the enterprises; the re-introduction of the super amortization, so called for also by the minority forces; the increase of the deductibility of the IMU on the sheds up to 50%, demanded loudly by the enterprises; the rapid reimbursements under the 50 000 euros for the savers; the reopening of the break-up- ter, given the great success of the fiscal peace obtained so far; the theme of the historical brands and the aid to the small municipalities. Whether we call it decree-law growth, whether it brings growth or not - we will see this - we certainly do not want to assume the responsibility of risking the expiry of a decree-law that contains measures so important for our companies and our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] That is why we have called for an effort on the part of minorities to start tomorrow, although we are certain that with 1,180 amendments we will not be able to get to this House with the rapporteur. Just think of all the opinions of the 5th Commission: in order to analyse all the 1,180 amendments and get to the vote it would take ten days and, therefore, the only way is to bring the bill to the House even without rapporteur, to start discussing it and then, with or without confidence, to adopt it quickly. You are right, of course it takes longer and that is why we announced at the Conference of the Leaders that we will ask the House of Deputies to send the Senate as soon as possible, by 22 July at the latest, the decree-security- bis law, which will expire on 13 August. In order to avoid being hanged at the last second and not having the week of work of the Commissions and the week of work of Assembly useful to view and analyze it, the request from the whole Conference to the Government was to move in that direction. To the Government, which is represented here, we recommend that the House approve quickly the security decree- bis, in order to meet a legitimate aspiration of minorities, but also of the same majority, to analyze all the measures well. It was an obligatory choice for the whole majority, so it was not an act of rudeness, nor did it want to impose a timetable at all costs. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u23	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I understand that Senator Romeo needs to tell the country what we would give up if it were not converted in the useful times of the decree-law under consideration. We have a different opinion - and I will be back in a minute - about the effects of this measure, but in this case we are talking about something else. President Marcucci's proposal was and is to allow the relevant Commissions 6a and 10a to work all day tomorrow, so do not prevent its approval, but work at least one full day, that of tomorrow. It has nothing to do with his fears of conversion. Once again, I have decided to intervene to point out once again our discomfort. If it was the first time that we arrived late and the work of one of the two Chambers, in particular that of the Senate, was significantly compressed, it could also be there; but it is not the first time, indeed it is the umpteenth time. I think that simply giving three or four days of work to a House for the consideration of such a broad measure is indeed a further outrage to Parliament's work. That is the message that we are giving to the Presidency, so that it can in turn interact with the Presidency of the House and ensure that the work takes place in a more natural way, in full respect of Parliament's prerogatives. It is clear - let me say this, Mr President - that the real reason why the decree-law growth remained in the Chamber of Deputies for almost two months is that all that time the League and the Movimento 5 Stars did an indecent ballet, which kept the measure firm. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , continuing an endless election campaign that has also been measured on it. Therefore, our request goes to the Presidents of the Chambers - to you, on behalf of the Presidency of the Senate, and also to the President of the Chamber of Deputies - so that such a ballet on such wide and complex measures is not allowed to the Government and the majority forces. Let me say something about merit, also because I do not know how much time we will have to discuss the decree-law under consideration. I say to the Italians: leave all hope of growth, because it is lost. This is a further example of the failure of economic and social policy and the revival of the country's development. The impact on GDP is virtually zero; the rules are so detailed and complex that they will be difficult to apply; there is very little money and their allocation will come into force in a few years' time: it is even delayed money. Moreover, the only things to be boasted of are the recovery of some measures made by previous governments, cancelled by the budget law, as mentioned by Senator Romeo. Of course, we also agree with the Industry Plan 4.0 and with the whole package of measures that provided for super-depreciation. Thank you: we have done so and it has been deleted from the budget law. So if there's anything good, it's what's been restored, compared to what's done in the past. I conclude my speech with a joke: this morning a colleague of the Fratelli d'Italia Group, in the Commissions gathered, recalled that bizarre dialogue, from balcony to balcony, which a few days ago involved the President of the Council. Well, in a season when all the decree-laws and provisions of the Government have titles that want to have a strong evocative power - as happens for the decree-law dignity and, in this case, for the decree-law growth, even if then in the provision there is nothing of such a tenor - I would not want the only image from the evocative power to be exactly that of that dialogue, in which the person who spoke with the President of the Council of the future of Italy did it in underwear. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u24	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to postpone the discussion of the decree-law on urgent measures for economic growth and for the resolution of specific crisis situations on Thursday, put forward by Senators Marcucci and De Petris. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u27	(M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would unfortunately like to remind you today of a mayor and a friend, the mayor of Rocca di Papa. Unfortunately, a few days ago, Rocca di Papa lost his first citizen, just as many of us lost a friend and our friend Veronica, unfortunately, lost her partner and little Maria Regina lost her father. We lost Mayor Crestini exactly three years after his electoral victory, three years after that day when Emanuele, with great stubbornness, managed to conquer that tricolor band to which he so much desired, following the enormous political passion he had expressed in his life, first as city councilman of opposition and then as candidate of a civic coalition. We lost it after three years of city government, in full administrative commitment and at an age - forty-seven - that is the harvest of the fruits of a life: a life of work and commitment, both political and professional. Emanuele Crestini, mayor of his community, disappeared on June 20, after having made the extreme sacrifice at the most difficult moment of his city. While all around him collapsed, following an explosion, of which still today the causes are not well known and on which the judiciary is investigating, along with one of the closest collaborators, Vincenzo Eleueri, who also died as a result of the wounds reported - today we also want to remember - in the municipal house flaming with fire, which was destroyed around him, continued to try in some way to do something for his city. Emanuele, despite the serious wounds, did not want to save and remained in the premises until exhaustion, breathing those harmful fumes that then damaged irreparably his lungs and led, unfortunately, to death. He did this to make sure that all the employees had left and that there were no citizens or anyone inside the municipal building now on fire. It was an act of courage, heroic, fully aware and perceived by the population, which in these days has led all of us, together with the highest offices of the State, to express not only words of condolence for the loss of man and the institutional figure, but also and above all words of commendation for the action that the mayor has carried out in his last work among the people and the community of Rocca di Papa. He was a man, a mayor and especially a father. A few years ago Crestini grabbed a fire extinguisher and threw himself unhesitatingly towards a burning car by extinguishing a stake. Unfortunately, obviously, the fire was in his destiny, but it was even more so in his DNA, a healthy civil fire that fueled his battles in favor of the territory and its fellow citizens, not least the one shared with so many of us in favor of the removal of the many, too many, antennas that invade Monte Cavo. Together we want to remember the mayor of Rocca di Papa stretched in a great heroic gesture in defense of his city and for this reason we strongly ask - we will respond to this request with all the necessary acts - that all the necessary procedures be initiated to recognize to Emanuele Crestini the gold medal to the civil value. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u30	Mr ASTORRE (PD). Mr President, 'Muor giovane' he who is dear to heaven. So said Menandro and Emanuele evidently had reasons to be dear to heaven. It is not easy for me to remember it today; It's not easy, not because I don't have so much to say about him, but because the emotion for his tragic disappearance is strong and every word seems unjustified and out of place. I've known Emanuele for many years. He owned one of the historic bars of Frascati before and mayor of Rocca di Papa then. The streets of politics have sometimes divided us and, sometimes, united us, but those of life have allowed us to be often close. How to forget his smile between the tables of the bar and his calls: Bruno, do I need to talk to you? Emanuele was this: he was Emanuele, even before he was Mayor Crestini. In these days he has gone away as a hero and, perhaps, in a world where selfishness and indifference have the upper hand, his gesture is truly heroic. Yet, knowing Emanuele, I know that for him to return to the Commune and make sure that everyone had gone out was only the right and natural thing to do. He acted for others without thinking about the consequences. He did so also when, a few years ago, as Mr Dessì recalled, before even becoming mayor, he saved a motorist from the fire of his car or when against everything and everyone allowed in 2016, a few months after the settlement, to welcome migrants to the World Better, without fear, knowing that that was the right thing to do. Even when the spectre of closed ports was shaken, he opened the doors of Rocca di Papa to the migrants of Diciotti in August last year. [[Applause from Senator Begin.]] He interpreted to the extreme the mission of a first citizen: to be at the service of others. He, who had pursued and realized the dream of becoming mayor, went away, for a mocking game of destiny, just the day on which the third anniversary of his victory took place. He was elected mayor on 20 June 2016 and died as mayor on 20 June 2019. I don't know whether to call him a hero - I said so - and honestly I don't even know if he would have wanted to. But in a world that needs positive examples - of course I agree with what Mr Dessì said about the gold medal for civil valor and before that the Minister of the Interior - Emanuele deserves a place of honor, because he reminded us, paying with his own life, the highest value of politics: service. All the right and due recognitions will remain empty if we forget in our future actions his sacrifice, that is, if we do not learn from his generous and unconditional gesture what is the only, true meaning of our political doing. Dear Emanuele, I never wanted to say these words. These days, in close contact with the doctors who were monitoring you, I have always hoped and prayed that I could come back to joke, design and discuss with you the many things you had in mind for your beloved Rock. The sky wanted something else, evidently you were really very dear to him. To us, who are a little more alone down here, the task of continuing to make your dreams come true, that your sacrifice was not in vain, for your family, for your child and for all the citizens of Rocca di Papa. Hello, Emanuele, let the earth be really light to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u33	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group also wants to participate in this moment of public reflection in the Senate House, which rightly recalls this story that we have all followed with apprehension in recent days, for the proximity of the territories, for the knowledge of all those who, on the front line, provide public administration, without imagining that they must bring their spirit of dedication to a sacrifice like this, which no one could foresee, because of absurd circumstances: the work, the explosion, the tragedy of the community of Rocca di Papa that we have all followed. So the Forza Italia Group can only associate itself with the sentiment that has already come from the words of our colleagues. The tribute to Crestini is a tribute that all the institutions have wished to pay, because the attempt made to save people, putting at risk, as unfortunately tragically happened, their life to be head of a community to the extreme consequences, is something that is right for this House to renew. Today the administrator is often overlooked; especially in municipalities of medium and small size it is a sacrifice: there are no advantages, there are no wages. All the realities, the small and the big ones, are often united in an ingenious judgment towards politics. And those of these dimensions see the administrators, often with great sacrifice and great commitment, beyond their belongings, their political location, to perform their work as local administrators at the service of all. This case that fate has wanted so dramatic - even to sacrifice its life in an attempt to save citizens - makes us understand even more what service to our community means. Sometimes words get a little rhetorical. First, some colleagues said they didn't know if Crestini should be called a civil hero or not. I think so, because it is right to stress this gesture, to remember it in this House and to pay tribute to him, to all those who have been involved in this tragedy, who also caused other victims and wounded, and to a community around him that had been organized with passionate political participation. A city that we know, a beautiful place, a climate station so often evoked for its beauty, this time has raided the Italian chronicles for such a dramatic story. It is good that the Senate has dedicated this phase of its work to the memory and memory of a man who has been a virtuous example that the national community must consider at all times. We too join the memory of Crestini and pay homage to this great man at the service of his community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u34	The Presidency joins with the memory of what the mayor of Rocca di Papa did and the mourning for what happened. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Presidency and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u37	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I live in Viareggio and on 29 June ten years ago I was in bed with my son who was three months old, when I first heard a thud and then an explosion that made the house tremble. The blast came from the station where I rushed: there was still no one, except some terrified users who were waiting for the train. I was surprised by the sight of all the glass holes as if they had been hit with a machine gun. In fact, the wagon, derailing, fired the stones from the tracks hitting the station. Then I reached the last wagon, the fourteenth, also on fire. The tragedy that happened that night could have turned into an even more devastating apocalypse for Viareggio, if the heat released from the ripped cistern had, because of the wind, affected the adjacent cisterns. The contained LPG would go to a boil and the tanks would all explode generating a tsunami of fire that would be advanced by 1,000 meters. The victims would have been thousands. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to understand what happened that tragic night, I strongly recommend that you see the theatrical performance of Ilaria Lonigro and Davide Moretti. It is my advice, in particular, to those in this House who do the interests of the elites and not the citizens; 32 is the number of victims, unfortunately also of very young children. That of Viareggio was rightly called a massacre. Mauro Moretti, then CEO of FS and RFI, spoke instead of a "piacevole episode." The investigation of responsibilities by the judiciary, however, did not follow the path of the " episode," but that of the massacre and the work of the investigators led to a trial that on 31 January 2017 sentenced among others Moretti to seven years in prison. Moreover, just last week, the court of appeal of Florence again sentenced Moretti to seven years of imprisonment, for its responsibilities both at the RFI summit and FS. Ladies and gentlemen, is there enough to revoke his knighthood? I remember in fact that on May 31, 2010, not even a year after the massacre of Viareggio, Moretti, then already investigated, was awarded this honor by the President of the Republic. I conclude by saying that over the past ten years we have had an accomplice and complacent policy with the economic powers of this country; today we have another one that is on the side of the citizens. As a state we have to be with the victims, we have to work to prevent accidents, we have to punish the perpetrators and not reward them. In this way we would have done nothing special, but simply our duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u40	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the concern for my region - Emilia-Romagna - has increased, even if it is mitigated by the arrests carried out this morning also in Piacenza by the Forces of Order - with which I wish to congratulate - towards members of the 'ndrangheta' coasts present in the Region. For years now organized crime has moved much of its interests to Northern Italy and my region, unfortunately, suffers heavily for this endemic evil. Today's news, therefore, is a breath of oxygen for all those millions of honest Emilian-Romans who live with the awareness of the presence of these criminals, for all those workers and those transparent companies that work offering to the Italian and foreign market the high quality and uniqueness of the products of our territory. In order to safeguard all these that I have mentioned, people and businesses, however, I have a great worry, a feeling that comes from my role as representative: in reading that even the president of the municipal assembly of Piacenza, Giuseppe Caruso, has been subjected to a precautionary measure, the desire arises spontaneously to reiterate once again how fundamental is the preventive evaluation of candidates in every order and grade from the local to the national. All too often, traditional parties are enchanted by the leader of the staff, the bearer of votes, without having any guarantees of transparency and absolute honesty. The territory of Piacenza is part of my constituency, so I conclude with the determination and absolute certainty that my commitment to this territory will be even more incessant in monitoring, together with the many local spokesmen of the Movement and the many activists, the activity of the local administrations to denounce illegitimate acts, aberrations and lack of transparency. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u43	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, in the municipal villa in Andria, at about 9 p.m., at a time when families and children were present, a man was the victim of an ambush in which he lost his life. This is the last of countless criminal episodes in the territory of the Province of Barletta and the Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani. For these reasons, on 28 May this year I tabled a written question with other colleagues, in response to the Ministers of Defence and Home Affairs, precisely to take the necessary action to ensure higher levels of security, including the extension of the safe roads operation, through an increase in the presence of the Armed Forces, which can be used for specific and exceptional needs of crime prevention, in certain metropolitan areas or in defense of sites considered particularly sensitive. This situation is no longer bearable by citizenship and, of course, the lack of security affects not only personal safety, but also business activities. For this reason today, relying on the sensitivity and competence of ministers Trenta and Salvini, I ask for the increase of military personnel in the territory of the Province of Bari and the Province of Barletta-Andria-Trani, as well as the increase of urgent measures in order to raise the minimum levels of security. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u46	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the Undersecretary of Crimes is still in the Chamber, which will help me - I believe - to pass on my position and my request to the Government. We all know, because we have been reading it every day for twelve days in the newspapers, that 43 desperate shipwrecks wander in the vicinity of Lampedusa without being able to find a safe place to land. It is a disgrace to a continent of five hundred million inhabitants. It is a disgrace to twenty-eight governments and twenty-eight states to witness, frankly indifferent, this tragedy which is consumed a few kilometers from us. We know that Germany has offered to host some of them. We know, and we always read in the newspapers, that some bishops made the same offer. But we'll have time. Now I don't want to throw her in politics. We will have time to discuss this great dossier at appropriate times, starting with international missions. In the House has just begun, with its hearings, the examination of a bill of popular initiative promoted by the campaign "I was a foreigner," to put some legality is a bit of humanity in all this area, not cared for but often used for other purposes. What I want to ask you, Mr President, is to be an interpreter of the Government. I think that after 12 days in this situation, at 40 degrees, an act of human legality would make our country great. I'm not a Martian. I know perfectly well that there is a paradiplomatic arm of iron, but I believe that, as the law of the sea says, first people are saved and then we discuss. In any case, a country is great (which, as we have just heard, is also made of great characters of great humanity) an act of human legality, which I ask with great force. That's 43 people of different skin. There are 43 people for whom it is not "first the Italians," but 43 people for whom the "first the people" is worth. Get them down. Then we argue. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Cattaneo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u49	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, Friday, June 21st, Attilio Martino left us. First of all, I want to express my sincere condolences from this House to my son Flavio and his wife Ughetta. In the province of Cuneo, the Province from which I come, we all remember Attilio as President of ANPI until 2014, assignment that I then had to leave for health reasons, and then as honorary president of ANPI itself. We remember him as a convinced defender of those values of the Resistance that generated and shaped the Constitution of our country. Attilio was born on 9 September 1928 in Ceva, son of workers. He himself was a worker worker and then a barber. Still a kid, participates in the Resistance as a partisan relay. Then, after the war, he is engaged in the territory, in his community, politically, as leader of the FGCI, of the Communist Party and then of the Democratic Party; administratively, as adviser, city council member and then vice mayor of Ceva, as vice president of the Aqueduct of the Langhe; as provincial councillor, from 1964 to 1975, and then, from 1973, for three legislatures, as deputy and senator in this Chamber. Until 1984, it will also be a member of the Council of Europe. Attilio leaves us in the heart, above all, the testimony of his affability and style; the strong and constant reference to those values of freedom, democracy, solidarity and equality. He leaves us his commitment for the poorest and weakest of the territory and our communities. It gives us a great example, certainly not only for young people, but for everyone. Thank you, Attilio. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u52	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the ex-deported National Association of Sesto San Giovanni and Monza is an important institution of national value, which in twenty years of activity has collected the names and stories of over 11,000 political deportees in the concentration camps. It is no coincidence that ANED is important in Sesto San Giovanni and Monza, because there were large factories from which hundreds of opponents of the regime were deported by the Nazis. The archive of ANED in these years has been used by the Jewish documentation center; it has been and is a reference point for many international researchers. ANED has an important role in keeping alive the memory of that tragedy perpetrated by the Nazi-fascist dictatorship; every year it organizes hundreds of students and takes them to the lagers to realize what the camps of deportation and extermination have been. Here, the other day the mayor of Sesto San Giovanni announced that in a month the building in which today there is the headquarters of ANED and its archive will be alienated and must be released immediately, without even informing the associations that today are located there and without worrying to guarantee a seat to what is an important heritage for the whole country. This is the same mayor who deleted from the letterhead of the Municipality of Sesto San Giovanni the words "Città medaglia d'oro della Resistenza" (Golden City of the Resistance), as if he is devoting himself to trying to erase the anti-fascist history of such an important city. I believe - and I address myself to you, Mr President - that this historic heritage must be preserved, that it tells the stories of thousands of political deportees and that it contains their names. That is why I ask you - and we will do the same with a question to the Government - to take action to ensure that this heritage (ANED and its archive) does not lose its seat in Sesto San Giovanni. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u53	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34, paragraph 1, second sentence of the Rules of Procedure, are published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-125.ana.u54	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, June 26, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 533 p.m.
