ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 10.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Stars Group and the Democratic Party Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. As already announced to the House yesterday, I suspend the sitting which will resume at the end of the meeting of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 10.06 a.m. and resumed at 12.16 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u4	The Conference of Leaders established changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of work until 7 August. In today's sitting, without closing hours, the examination of the documents drawn up by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the verification of powers will be concluded. For the general discussion of the report on the contested election in the Emilia-Romagna Region, three hours and fifteen minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. In the session of tomorrow, which will end at 12, the draft law on the school teaching of civic education, on the posting of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio, as well as, from the drawing up office, the draft law on the valorization of small food productions of local origin and on participations in dairy companies will be discussed. On Monday 5 August, at 12 noon, the questions referred for a preliminary ruling relating to the decree-law on public security will be discussed. Next week's calendar, with sessions without closing hours, until Wednesday 7 August, provides for the discussion of the decree-law in the matter of public security; of the decree-law in the matter of cultural goods, already approved by the Senate, where amended by the Chamber of Deputies; of the related bill, concerning delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies; and of the motions on the Turin-Lyon high-speed train.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 7 August: [[Wednesday, July 31, 9.30 - Following documents defined by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity in the matter of verification of the powers - Drawing of law n. 1264 and related - Teaching school of civic education (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1144 and related - Common detachment of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 728 - Valorizations of small food productions of local origin (from the writing site) - Drawing of law n. 1110 - Participation in dairy society (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (by the drafting office) Thursday 1 August 9.30-12]] Amendments to bill No 1264 and related (School Teaching of Civic Education) should be tabled by 2 p.m. on Wednesday 31 July. [[Monday, August 5, 12 - Deliberation on proposals for a preliminary ruling on the draft law n. 1437 - Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public security (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1437 - Decree-Law n. 53, Provisions in the matter of order and public security (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on August 13) - Drawing of law n. 1374-B - Decree-Law n. 59, Urgent measures in the fields of competence of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities (already approved by the Senate) (where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1372 - Delegations to the Government in the matter of sports law (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (related to the maneuvering of public finance) (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Motions on the high-speed train Turin-Lyon Tuesday 6 " 9 Wednesday 7 " 9]] Amendments to draft law No 1437 (Decree-Law No 53, Provisions on order and public security) should be tabled no later than 6 p.m. on Wednesday 31 July. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1374-B (Decree-Law No 59, Urgent measures in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments to bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) will have to be tabled by 12 noon on Thursday 1 August. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1437 (Decree-Law No. 53, Provisions on public order and security) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1374-B (Decree-Law No 59, Urgent measures in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1372 (Delegations to the Government on Sports Law) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 11' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u8	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, as you have correctly reported to the House, the timetable has not been voted unanimously, and we are strongly opposed to it. I am obliged, however, to make a general picture of the situation in the Senate, as I have had the opportunity to do at the Conference of Leaders. Attitudes and situations are taking place, even in the Commissions, which are objectively unacceptable and conditions are created so that the measures can never be discussed or confronted. On repeated occasions on 5th Commission President Pesco used instrumentally [[Applause from the PD Group]] - and I would stress this - Article 81 of the Constitution on all the amendments, using as justification, himself and the majority forces, the inability of the Government - which I stress - to send technical reports. Mr President, we ask you to intervene again, because we know that you have done so, but they are constantly breaking democratic rules and we cannot allow it. There is worse, however, Mr President: in the 7th Commission, we are discussing a measure which the majority of us wanted to include inappropriately in the timetable, the related bill concerning delegations to the Government in the field of sports law. This is a structural measure, which we think is very important and which is obviously very important to someone in the League - and we wonder why - but on which it was decided to prevent the debate. Mr President, Mr Pittoni has even decided to have the amendments presented to the Commission before the hearings. [[Applause from the PD Group]] : it is unacceptable, the hearings are being held in order to receive requests from outside (from civil society, experts, associations and authorities), but he has the amendments tabled. At the Conference of the Leaders, we were told that, since we have tabled more than 200 amendments to the measure, the debate in the Commission will not end and we will still be in this House. Mr President, you are allowing every area of democracy and debate, analysis and deepening to be squeezed down, every prerogative of Parliament. They also want to put their trust in the measure of delegation in the field of sports law, because a Undersecretary cares about it for some reason and also cares about the Olympics, as this decision also puts those aspects at risk. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We come to the request that I made to you, Mr President, that it is very serious. The pause we have had these days has allowed us to make - where necessary - further details of the debate that took place in this House on the issue of Sicily. The majority forces have made an agreement: they need to have some extra chairs and to settle someone, we understand; perhaps that policy that they themselves had announced to change is changing much for the worse. However, today we are going beyond the limits of guard: Parliament is being forced to vote against the laws and against the Constitution and we cannot accept it. I address to individual Members an appeal that I have already made to the Group Leaders, who, alas, have proved insensitive: today they are forcing us all, as Members of Parliament and of this Senate, to go against the Constitution and vote for the assignment to another region of a seat that must necessarily take place on a regional basis. Colleagues, I assure you that this is a dangerous precedent: today you are leading the country and rightly, following the electoral outcome, you are the majority of this country, but this precedent is very dangerous. Mr President, we ask you once again to find a solution: do not oblige the Senate of the Republic to vote against our Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You don't force us to do this. We will do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen. We are sorry for the attitude of the majority forces and, emphasizing this aspect, which is the most dramatic and politically dangerous for the future of our country, we will vote against this calendar, which we will do everything to ensure that it does not go ahead, since it goes against the Constitution and the activity of the Senate and our Commissions and prevents us from deepening and discussing the measures. Where are we, Mr. President? Where? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Movimento 5 Stars and League continue the attack on rules and democracy: they don't care, they invent seats to assign chairs and make laws because they want a Undersecretary for their interests, preventing Parliament from speaking. It's no longer acceptable. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Since we are entering a summer stop at a very sad time for our democracy, I once again appeal to all my colleagues: save democracy and institutions; do not allow your leaders to offend in this dramatic way the rules of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u9	Excuse me, Senator Marcucci, but you didn't make the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u10	Mr Marcucci (PD). My proposal is that we should not proceed to vote on the Junta's report on the issue of seat not allocated in the Sicilian Region or the measure of delegation in the field of sports law. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u11	Discussing the timetable of the work, as you will recall, I have repeatedly stressed the need for the Government to order the work in order to give the possibility to all senators to deepen all the measures with a reasonable debate and in a suitable time.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u14	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I believe that once again there has been an enormous forced force on the timetable of work by the majority. In fact, not only are the times being severely compressed, but frankly I believe that some measures are being exaggerated. I say this very clearly and quickly. In our view, the forcings that are being carried out with regard to the bill of delegation in the field of sports law are totally unacceptable. Although many issues are already on the agenda, it has forced itself to include in the timetable of work even a draft delegation law, with which the Parliament delegates the Government. It is not possible to force this kind of law on delegations (in case of urgency the Government would have already adopted a decree-law), even - which I find absolutely incredible - with the arrival in the Chamber of the measure without rapporteur and the possibility of discussing the amendments. As far as we are concerned, we cannot understand the urgency of this, not least because there are many urgent issues to be considered. For example, as you know, Mr President, when it comes to motions which will be discussed later on, we have been asking for a very long time to include in the agenda the question of the question of haddock, which concerns the health of citizens, but this has not happened. I repeat: there were many more urgent issues to be considered. I would therefore ask that the draft law on sport be removed from the agenda, so that it can be examined calmly, or that it is also worked on Thursdays and Fridays, or that the measure be brought into line, so that - at the limit - its examination can be resumed in September, when the Commission's work has been completed. Speaking of the Commissions, I don't repeat what's happening. However, I note that on the draft law on the education of civic education we continue to see the expression of opinions under Article 81 of the Constitution only and only because the amendments are of the opposition. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The President of the Budget Commission says he does not receive technical reports, but he and his Offices will also be able to make an assessment. As far as I am concerned, I have never shared some of the forces on Article 81 of the Constitution, but I believe that this parliamentary term is really overdoing it. I have even proposed, at this point, that the amendments be presented to the Budget Committee with the names of the deleted presenters, so that we can see whether there will be neutrality in the application of Article 81, which is becoming the instrument used to cash out the opposition's amendments and remove the annoyances. Colleagues, if this is done on a provision such as that concerning the school teaching of civic education, think of others. Once again, I believe that we need to take action on these forcings - which you have noted, Mr President. Let me turn to the last question, and then summarize the proposals for amending the timetable for the work. Mr President, when will the Commission be working on the so-called security decree, given that the questions referred for a preliminary ruling in this House are scheduled to be examined on Monday? Almost certainly the government will put the question of trust, as we all know. What does that mean? Both today and tomorrow we are engaged in this House. I would therefore like to know when we will have the opportunity to examine the measure, since we have not even finished the general discussion and all the senators have the right to take full action on such a heavy measure and impact on freedoms, their meaning and on issues that are dear to many people. Amendments have been tabled which should at least be able to be examined, but here too there is force. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary - and I close with the proposal - to lighten the timetable, in particular by not providing for the discussion of the draft law on delegation to the Government in the field of sports law, putting it in line, at least until the work in the Commission is completed. It cannot be accepted that the House should discuss this even if the measure is not concluded in the Commission. We are asking for this debate to take place only if the examination has been completed in the Commission. We also ask that it be included in the timetable, after the examination of the motions on the Turin-Lion high-speed train - if there should be time, so that at the start of the work after the summer break we can still discuss - also the motion on haddock, which we have tabled a long time ago. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u17	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I have listened to the speeches of my previous colleagues, who reflect very much the spirit that we minorities have always tried to maintain in the Conference of Leaders. We have never been obstructive and you, Mr President, are a witness, but we have tried to relate in a certain way to the Senate, to all our colleagues and to what we represent, because we are not representatives of ourselves, but of a part of the citizens, indeed, all together, of the Italian people. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] We cannot therefore agree to be treated in part like the House of Deputies, which transmits to us the measures that we have to adopt in five minutes, having them discussed in the Commission without going off the road, in the sense that we do not even have the opportunity to examine them. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I was speaking right now to Mr Cangini, our leader in the 7th Commission: it is right what our colleagues have said, Mr President. We cannot deal with Article 81 'a wild cat', because President Pesco does not realize whether or not there is the financial invariance for which, in uncertainty, he applies Article 81 on everything. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Mr President, this is not professionalism. I realize that some people want to make this Parliament the realm of improvisation, so that those who lead them from outside can better govern them. [[Applause from the FI-BP groups and Senator Margiotta]] We do not agree with this interpretation; we do not like to be treated like this; we do not like it because, even if we are in a closed Parliamentary Chamber, thank goodness someone listens to us, someone looks at us, someone still wants to be represented by us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why, Mr President, even today, with great loyalty, with great correctness and, I must say, even with great calmness we have pointed out to you - and we have also told the majorities - that we have seven hours to discuss the security decree- bis, a measure that speaks of immigration, of public order and of endowments to the Forces of Order, to those gentlemen who every day risk their lives for us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Seven hours, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am the minimum trade union, on the contrary, we are below the minimum trade union to examine such a measure, which of course the House has discussed with ease and which will now transmit to us with equally comfortable times, so that we can put our trust in it, because this is the fate of this measure, so that the more than a thousand amendments on which we could have said ours will, as always, be dead letters. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Okay. On this measure at least there is the requirement of necessity and urgency, since it is a decree-law: we must approve it by August 13th. All right, but, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what kind of necessity and urgency do we have on the sports order? It is a legislative delegation. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I understand that most people need to give satisfaction to someone, to please someone, perhaps to the detriment of someone else. I do not know what the interests behind this haste are; certainly not the Constitution, not the ordinary law. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Mr President, it is a law of delegation. Is it ever possible that, once again, always for that famous tradition that makes us the scenilietto of the House, they keep the measure firm in the House for months and we in twenty days have to fire it, in a way, President, to say the least pornographic, dirty? The House - the President of the Commission is well aware of this - has set the deadline for tabling amendments before the hearings. So what are the auditions for? What is Parliament for? What is the Senate of the Republic for? What are we for? [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] I have an answer: we serve and a lot, but, Mr President, with this timetable we do not serve very much. It is for this reason that we once again ask for the minimum trade union: let us remove from the timetable the measure on the sports system, which does not even have the shadow of necessity and urgency. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] , and we keep everything else, saving a shred of dignity! [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u20	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I believe that my fellow senators, especially of the majority, acknowledge that the Brothers of Italy Group has exercised its role of opposition in a very responsible way. We have never denied the right-obligation of the majority to be able to plan their work and approve the measures that are most dear to those who govern the country at this time. We have followed this course of action. There is a majority that governs, has the right to govern, and has the right to know when the laws and decrees will be approved by the Houses. There is, however, a limit that here is punctually exceeded by a certain, a little arrogant, way of understanding the exercise of power, which provides that everything you want must become reality. We do not, of course, dispute the possibility and the duty of converting decree-laws into law (there would be no more), but the abuse of the exercise of trust is before everyone's eyes, President. We have already heard, in this morning's debate at the Conference of the Leaders, but above all today in this House, that there is the intention to put trust not only in the security decree bis, by cutting off the wings to the debate and the possibility of improvement that we would like to bring, but also in the law of delegation to sport causes the arms to fall. In fact, the one around sport seems to be an emergency of power only: there is a logic of power around the control of the world of sport. I do not want to open the debate on the delegation law here, but the autonomy of sport must be safeguarded. What is the need to approve a delegation law in August, when it could be passed from here to a month? Perhaps we are faced with a logic of power, which must be exercised by showing the muscles, even the face of the Chambers and, on this occasion in particular, of the Senate. On Article 81 of the Constitution, President, I believe I said first in this House, together with my colleagues in the Brothers of Italy Group, that Article 81 was used mainly in the debate on budgetary documents as a trap to prevent the majority from having to deal with embarrassing amendments for the majority itself. Therefore, when there is a political problem with amendments that might put the already fragile holding of the majority in difficulty, Article 81 of the Constitution, which removes chestnuts from the fire and prevents problems from being addressed in the Commission, intervenes in a salvific way. Article 81 of the Constitution, therefore, must be revised, because paradoxically it creates problems for the same majority: in the logic for which the devil makes pots but not lids, even Article 81 ultimately puts even the same majority in trouble. Two last quick remarks, Mr President, on the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system. We have asked for it a thousand times, we have waited a lot of time, we do not know because of whom; please, no one else accuses anyone else of the fact that this Commission has not left because something is missing. There is only a lack of political will to set it off in time. This must be clear, otherwise for the Commission banks there would have been the same zeal that you are using for the delegation to sport. Finally, Mr President, a minor thing, but not for us. We have asked - and we are surprised that the opposite happened at the Conference of the Leaders - to postpone to September the debate on the amalgamation of two municipalities of the Marches to Emilia-Romagna. This is a matter arising from a referendum twelve years ago. We simply asked for the possibility of deepening the subject, of possibly being able to ask for a suspensive one. There are reasons, even constitutional ones, that suggest a deepening. We therefore call once again on our colleagues in the Senate to be able to postpone this small measure to September at least. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u23	Patuanelli (M5S). Mr President, first of all I confirm the will expressed by the majority on the timetable and, therefore, I am voting against the amendments which, lawfully, the oppositions are asking for. I feel, however, that I am also involved in safeguarding the capacity, professionalism and competence demonstrated by President Pesco. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] In doing so, I do not hesitate to propose once again to the Government, as has been done several times, to pay more attention to the needs of the Budget Committee. In the absence of technical reports, it is normal for the Presidency of the Budget Commission to be unable to assess in detail the possible financial effects, which are not identified by the proposers of the amendments. The financial invariance clause is not enough to say that there are no effects on an amendment. Therefore, it is normal for the President to need support from the Accounting with the technical report. Therefore, I call on the Government to give greater support to the Budget Commission through the MEF and the State Accounting Office. Finally, I have heard President Marcucci, whom I address through you, Mr President, speak of appealing to the Constitutional Court and to the Republic's Public Prosecutor for the issue of the Sicilian seat. All right, fine, but if it's a self-declaration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember, in fact, that if the plenum is not guaranteed today it is because of an electoral law that we did not do and that we did not want. Article 57 (2) of the Constitution provides that there are 315 elected senators! [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Live comments from the PD Group, whose senators stand by showing copies of the Constitution.]] VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Read the text! Read it! PRESIDENT. - Ladies and gentlemen, please, we will have time to discuss the laws and their constitutionality. [[Live comments from Senators Bellanova and Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u26	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I have heard the arguments, which seem to me to be very correct, both from my colleagues in the Democratic Party and from President Bernini. The Autonomy Group is always very sensitive to the issue of urgency that the Government points out, because we know well that the government has the responsibility to direct and ask Parliament for the adoption of priority measures. On the subject of sport, however, frankly, we do not understand how urgent it is to expel Parliament from any examination of the substance and to begin, in a hasty manner, before the summer interruption, the compulsory approval of a measure which has not been discussed here. Moreover, the interested parties tell us that it is a measure that violates all the rules and principles of autonomy of sport with respect to the possible indication of the legislator. Mr President, forgive me for knowing how much respect and esteem I have for you, but in this case I also call a little 'you' because I think that at this point the issue is also fundamental: is it possible that the Senate is completely expropriated? With a gimmick [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD]] - because this is the case - we want to take advantage of the summer holidays in order to include on the agenda a measure that appears today as a fungus and that the Commissions have not had time to deal with. In addition, as my colleagues have told me, auditions were also required; everything goes to cavalry. Leaving aside the other issues that colleagues have raised, as a Group of the Autonomous Regions, we ask that the measure on sport be discussed calmly when the activities are resumed in September. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u27	Senator Casini, you're not usually a distracted senator. I said earlier, speaking in general of all the measures, that I invited the government to regulate the times so as to give all senators the opportunity to deepen the measures. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). You don't have to invite, you have to do! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I just said that. Having said that, let us now move on to the proposal to amend the timetable of proceedings, put forward by Senator Marcucci, concerning the failure to put to the vote the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the issue of the seat not assigned in the Sicilian Region.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u30	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in view of the gravity of the matter, I would like to use the loudest voice I can have and I assure you that it is a very loud voice. However, sometimes gravity can also be expressed with ease; perhaps also because peace of mind can be the best means of trying to ensure that this House has one last whisper of self-respect. What is being consumed, in fact, if the part of the provisions of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity concerning Sicily is not deleted, is an act of absolute gravity that has no precedent in our republican history. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is an act of unprecedented and absolute gravity because not only does this House assume a faculty that does not have, that is to attribute a seat, not only does it assume a faculty that it does not have, that is to attribute a seat in spite of what is prescribed in Article 57 of the Constitution, that is, that the Senate is elected on a regional basis, but also because what is being consumed in these days is a fold for political interests of the prerogatives of justice functions of the Junta of elections and parliamentary immunity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The justice functions of the Junta! It's a political turn, for political interest! All ammantated - and as ammantated - by a lack of respect for the Constitution! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, we have written to you a letter that we will deliver to you, but that I want to anticipate: Dear President, the Senate is today called to ratify a decision of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities which, in manifest violation of the principle of election on a regional basis, enshrined in Article 57 of the Constitution, foreshadows the illegitimate composition of the Assembly of the Senate. This is a completely new decision in republican history, which risks jeopardising the legitimacy of any future deliberations taken by the Senate and which irreparablely undermines the credibility of the body and its Presidency. With the decision to assign the vacancy seat, in serious contrast to the letter of the first paragraph of Article 57, you would assume direct responsibility for an open violation of the Republican Constitution and, even more serious, would do so in your capacity as the second office of the State. [[Extended applause from the PD Group]] We therefore invite you to immediately suspend the examination of the report of the Junta and to put in place any appropriate verification and initiative in the relevant constitutional bodies so that the decision of the allocation of the vacant seat is taken in strict compliance with the Constitution and the electoral law of the Senate. If, on the other hand, the examination of the report should continue, leading to an irreparable vulnus to the legitimate composition of the Senate, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group will be forced to act in political and judicial (at the prosecutor's office of the Republic and the Constitutional Court) in order to restore full constitutional legality. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Madam President, that is not the dignity of parliamentary work. How can there be dignity if one is an accomplice, if this House becomes an accomplice to trample on the Constitution! I think that you, at this point, have only the opportunity to suspend the sitting. [[Many Senators of the PD Group stand by showing the Constitution.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u31	We all know the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u32	Mr Ferrari (PD). If you don't suspend, we'll take over the government's benches until you give us a meeting where we can discuss this matter! (Many Senators of the PD Group occupy the benches of the Government. Senators Quaestors intervene).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u33	The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.52 p.m. and resumed at 13.39 p.m.) I will suspend the sitting again until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3.10 p.m.) Colleagues, I have a further suspension until 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.10 p.m. and resumed at 437 p.m.) I immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The sitting shall be suspended again. (The sitting was suspended at 16.37 p.m. and resumed at 5.13 p.m.) The session is resumed. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings in order not to put to the vote the report of the Junta on the issue of the seat not assigned in the Region of Sicily, put forward by Senator Marcucci. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings to avoid putting to the vote the delegation in the field of sports law, made by Senators Marcucci, Bernini, Ciriani and Casini. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to complete the work of next week's sports delegation, if the measure has been concluded in the Commission, made by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to change the schedule of work of the Assembly aimed at postponing to September the provision that concerns the posting of the two municipalities from the Marche Region to the Emilia-Romagna Region, advanced by Senator Ciriani. It's not approved. It seems to me that the result is clear and there is no need for counterproof. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u34	The next item is the continuation of the debate on document XVI, No 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u35	Mr President, I do not intend to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u36	I would like to ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Malan, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u37	Mr President, I do not intend to speak in response.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u38	I would ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Grasso, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at my meeting on 25 July last I have already proposed the only solution that would allow us not to go against the Constitution, namely to leave the Sicilian seat vacant because it cannot be assigned, without prejudice to the operation of the Senate as we also experience today. I do not retrace here the reasons which, at the tip of the law, I have dealt extensively with in my minority report and, last but not least, I have proposed an agenda which I hope this House can accept before voting on the Constitution. Be careful: this situation is generated by a norm, the current electoral law (so-called Rosatellum), little careful, daughter of an unacceptable forced force, written quickly and badly. For example, the rule that does not allow more than four candidates on multi-name lists is valid. A law passed with equally unacceptable methods. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]] VOICE FROM THE M5S GROUP. You were president! Mr Grasso, minority rapporteur. Exactly; I have made my decisions after this vote and you know it very well. But, in the final analysis, those who have the responsibility for the vacant seat are the Movimento 5 Stars and its free and autonomous electoral decisions and strategies. In Sicily, in fact, the list of the Movimento 5 Stars presented and conquered all nine single-name colleges and obtained the right to obtain eight of the sixteen multi-name seats, but having enjoyed ample use of a model that had so much contested - that is, the multi-candidates - could not cover a seat due to insufficient candidates. We cannot, however, contradict the Constitution to correct your electoral strategy and your inability to predict the dangers of the law and perhaps even a success that was not foreseen! Take on, then, the responsibility for your wrong assessment! I find it absurd, in fact, to invent solutions, in my view, imaginative, but without any anchoring to the Constitution or to the electoral law. It is clear that Parliament will have to put its hands on the electoral law and, at least, correct this mistake. But this is another game, which must also be played because, if the House confirms the cut of the parliamentarians, it is clear that the very establishment of the law will have to be revised, in order not to sacrifice on the altar of cost cut the representativeness of the elected. The debate has further convinced me that the solution proposed by the majority of the election committee is totally unacceptable. I am even more convinced in my opinion of some of the comments made in this House, although they lead to solutions other than mine, but equally unsustainable for me. It is mainly about the consideration that you cannot have more elected than the candidates and therefore if you decide, of course, by your choice, to present the same candidate in the single and plurinomial college, it is clear - I repeat - that you take the risk inherent in an existing norm, even if not perfect and critical. I also share the other comment that refers to the fourth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, which precisely establishes the mechanism for allocating seats to each Region: except for Molise and Valle d'Aosta, the allocation is proportional to the number of inhabitants. Why for a majority choice, for the umpteenth exchange between League and Movimento 5 Stars, should one break this balance prescribed by the Constitutional Charter and entrust to a Region a senator in more than what is foreseen by the Constitution, going to unbalance the weight of the vote of a Umbrian citizen compared to that of the other Regions? We are really deciding whether or not to open a critical precedent, as Mr Errani called it. The Senate is called upon to express itself on a clearly unconstitutional proposal. I therefore hope that you will reject the proposal put forward by the majority who are willing to violate the Constitution for one more senator. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u40	I would like to ask the minority rapporteur, Senator Cucca, if he wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u41	Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. President Grasso's words cannot but be shared. I am concerned about the drift that this sitting is taking because we are really trampling on the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that we should first be consistent with the constitutional dictation. I have always valued Senator Patuanelli very much for his calmness, for how he always addresses the House and for the moderation with which he addresses all the issues in a time that is certainly extremely difficult. Senator Patuanelli, I really didn't share the attitude today. And I did not share it for a very simple reason, because the laws notoriously are made and sometimes they are also wrong, and certainly in this law there is a vulnus: double, indeed the triple reference in the legislation poses interpretation problems, which however cannot be solved with the violation of constitutional principles. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I would also like to recall the judgment issued last July by the Constitutional Court, which assigns to all bodies with self-declaration the nature of a judicial body and therefore, perhaps, with a little more goodwill, we could have made an effort also in the Junta, putting the acts back to the Constitutional Court before taking a decision that, objectively, cannot fail to be perplexed. It may be that legislation has shortcomings and if that is the interpretation that is given, it is clearly unconstitutional, and although self-declaration bodies have very large powers and margins of discretion, one cannot help but take into account that those bodies, and therefore we, who are members of this House, must necessarily observe the principle of legality. [[Applause from the PD Group]] First we respect the laws and, in any case, also respect those laws must take place within the framework of respect for the Constitutional Charter, which comes before anything else. Today, however, we are mocking it, because it is undeniable that Article 57 says that the election must take place on a regional basis. President Grasso has proposed one of the possible solutions, but there would also be other solutions, because there would also be an interpretative norm and we could also interpret the will of the legislator, because when it is said that the elected senators must be five in a Region but it is allowed that lists of four are made, it means that the legislator has foreseen that, in the hypothesis in which there was - as happened - a vast support like that that that has been in the Region Sicily, the fifth one should be fished elsewhere, where, for a choice that has been made by the Movimento 5 Stars, there has been a double candidacy and therefore it has not been possible to cover all the available places. If Senator Catalfo, instead of being nominated in both colleges - both in the unitary and in proportional - had been nominated in one college and had been another character, we would not have this problem today. This problem, however, should be solved - I repeat - by reading the rule and solutions there are others, which would certainly not trample on the Constitution. For me it is a great concern and I ask you to reflect on this fact, because those who know the progress of the work of the Junta know that we are working very often on the precedents and we are creating a really absurd precedent. I do not believe that before today the Constitution has been annulled by a decision of the Council. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask you to reason, to try to take some more time. Let us suspend this decision, let us do whatever, but keep that lighthouse on, keep our gaze on the Constitution and on the values that are written in that Constitutional Charter, with those principles that we must all adhere to in the everyday life of our activity. We cannot, however, in order to assign an additional seat, even in the face of different solutions envisaged, opt for the worst solution, because - I insist - we are going to create a very serious precedent that will surely, sooner or later, be recalled and will once again force us to move away from the constitutional dictation. So we're still thinking. Please, think again. Let us see if we can find a different solution, but certainly the solution is not to go fishing in another region of Italy, because this goes against the principles of our fundamental charter. It is not only that principle that is trampled on because, besides having a problem on the regionality, on the fact that it must be identified in the region of belonging, there is also another problem. Beware that in the case of two districts you could also fish in a different, but always within that Region, not in another; moreover, also the observance of the number of senators, because Sicily will be found with one less and Umbria will have one more and also in this case a violation of a constitutional principle is determined. I therefore insist on the content of the minority report and I ask you once again, if you do not intend not to vote on the proposal arrived at by the Junta, which was adopted by a majority, at least we suspend the decision not to create a very serious precedent and we also try to address the competent bodies to resolve this problem and find a different solution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u42	I would like to inform the Assembly of the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, in which a unanimous agreement has been reached on the basis of which I will write a letter to the President of the Constitutional Court, representing that at the request of Senator Marcucci, but with the consent of all the parliamentary groups, the measure concerning the allocation of the vacant seat in the Region of Sicily and its Report will be transmitted for appropriate knowledge. It was appropriate for me to say what was the outcome of the last Conference of Leaders which led to this agreement. I communicate that to the text of the document under consideration the agendas of the day G1, signed by Senator Grasso and other Senators, G2, signed by Senator Ginetti and other Senators, G3, signed by Senator Bonifazi and other Senators, G4, signed by Senator Cucca and other Senators, G5, signed by Senator Ginetti and other Senators, and G6, signed by Senator Cucca and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. I would like to ask the presenters whether they intend to explain them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u43	Mr President, the G1 agenda covers the arguments I have already put forward. I repeat and repeat that the Constitution is very clear: according to Article 57 the Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis and there is no possibility of misunderstanding. I note that a letter will be sent to the Constitutional Court in order to know the matter; I know that the Court can deal with a matter only incidentally, so I do not understand the effect of this disclosure of the Constitutional Court; however, if this has been decided unanimously by all the Group leaders and the President, I take note of it. All I'm saying is that this claim of the Movimento 5 Stars to have an extra senator fishing from another Region is in contradiction with the calculation based on the population, which precisely for Umbria provides seven senators and not eight, and is out of all logic. By the way, since other hypotheses have been advanced, often without specifying what type, I can say that there are no other hypotheses, because in no case is any analogy possible. The Constitutional Court, since it has been invested, we can cite it. In judgment No 44 of 1961, the Court found that the correction of the results is an act of undeniable seriousness since it leads to assigning certain seats to persons other than those to whom they would have belonged and even to members of other lists; therefore, it is not permitted except in the cases expressly indicated by law, which are not susceptible to analog extension. Therefore, just as a rule established for the election of the Chamber of Deputies cannot be applied, no other rule such as that for the electoral lists of municipalities can be applied, and no analog extension can be done if there is no explicit provision of the law; as there has been in previous laws: let us remember, for example, the Mattarellum. This is therefore the position for which the only solution, which among other things has illustrious precedents not only to the Senate but also to the House in the past legislatures, is not to assign the vacant seat because the Senate is an organism that can operate without the need to have the plenum in its composition. Among the many solutions that result in a violation of constitutional law, the one that involves a smaller number than the 315 seats provided for in the Constitution is certainly the one that has the least effect from the point of view of our constitutional system. I therefore insist on the adoption of the G1 agenda. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u44	Mr President, we reiterate with our agendas for G2 and G5 that the solution proposed by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities concerning the seat not allocated in Sicily is not the result of a legally justified decision, but of a resolution taken on the basis of the numerical logic of a political majority in this House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and the Junta, in clear violation of the law and the Republican Constitution. In fact, contrary to what has been proposed by the Junta and here related, the hypothesis of a list that has exhausted the number of candidates submitted in a multi-annual college - and it is therefore not possible to attribute all the seats to it in that college - is expressly provided for by the electoral law of the Senate, which excludes, pursuant to Article 17-a, that the vacant seat can be assigned by fishing from a different territorial regional division (the hypothesis applicable to the Chamber, but not to the Senate). Therefore, in order to justify the proposal approved by the Junta, the rapporteur referred to the principle of popular sovereignty that is Article 1 of the Constitution, which would require the election of a candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars presented and not elected in a region other than Sicily, and in this case from the Umbria Region. But it should be borne in mind that, in this case, popular sovereignty can only refer, in relation to the combined provisions of Article 57 of the Constitution, to the Sicilian people, who have spoken in favour of the Sicilian candidates in relation to a territorial representation and local community. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , which cannot be replaced. So this principle, which we recognise, which is an absolute principle of the Constitution, must be read in conjunction with it. Among other things, popular sovereignty - as Article 1 itself states - must be exercised in the forms and limits provided for in the Constitution; it cannot override it. From our point of view, therefore, there could be a conflict of attribution by excess of power, so we could hypothesize the need for an appeal to the Constitutional Court both by individual parliamentarians and by the parliamentary group, because we would have gone beyond the power assigned to the Junta in the verification of powers, which is recognized to this body, which in this capacity assumes almost judicial functions, but which cannot go beyond the insurmountable constraints dictated by the Constitution. That is why, Mr President, we have returned to you, so that it is not you - in your capacity - who certify such a blatant violation of our Constitutional Charter. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u45	Mr President, I would like to outline the agendas of the G4 and G6 meetings, at my first signature. First of all, I would like to point out that the premises are clearly the same as those set out above in the reply as a minority rapporteur. The two agendas refer, however, to two different aspects. The first, the G4, refers to Article 17-bis of the Senate's electoral law, which, in paragraph 2, expressly excludes, in cases where the problem we are facing occurs, namely the insufficient number of candidates to cover the posts, the possibility of applying the discipline provided for by the electoral law of the Chamber of Deputies. The latter allows the allocation of seats not allocated to candidates on the same list in other districts. Therefore, in the House that work was done because you were in the same conditions - always for friends of the Movimento 5 Stars - and in that case you could easily resort to the electoral law of the Chamber, therefore, assign the seat in other districts because the distribution takes place on a national basis. This cannot be because, once again recalling the content of Article 57 of the Constitution, it is absolutely impossible to resort to candidates from other districts because otherwise there would be a clear violation. The G4 agenda therefore proposes that the Senate decide to conclude in contradiction with the decision taken - I remember once again - by the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity by majority, so that the allocation of the vacant seat is decided in strict compliance with the electoral law of the Senate which, as I have said, expressly prohibits, in article 17 -bis, paragraph 2, from assigning seats not allocated to candidates of the same constituency to candidates of the same district to "fished" candidates in other districts (in this case, in the Umbria region). The G6 agenda refers in detail to the content of Article 57 of the Constitution. The speech is a little more complex because in fact the rapporteur drew attention to the principle of popular sovereignty, enshrined in Article 1 of the Constitution, which would require that a candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars - according to the proposal - be elected, but not elected, in a region other than Sicily. Well, at this point I think it is worth remembering that Article 1 of the Italian Constitution states that sovereignty is exercised by the people in the forms and limits provided for in the Constitution. And then, to justify a choice that, as said, is dictated simply by the will to occupy a place that cannot be occupied by the representative of another Region, one cannot resort to the concept of popular sovereignty, if it is true - as it is undeniable - that, operating in this way, there would be a violation. In fact, since popular sovereignty must always be exercised within the limits and within the framework of constitutional principles, Article 57 should also be used in this case, thus leaving those limits which Article 1 itself imposes. In fact, therefore, the problem we are dealing with today concerns exclusively the Sicilian electorate, not the vacant seat or the supreme will, in my opinion, unduly mentioned by the rapporteur. The votes of the Sicilians would be used to elect the candidate from another constituency, so out of the constitutional dictation, which I will never tire of repeating. [[Applause from Senator Rojc.]] The G6 agenda therefore provides and resolves to conclude in contradiction with the decision taken by a majority by the Assembly of the elections in full respect of the entire provisions of Article 57 of the Constitution. This - I remember it for the umpteenth time - requires the election of the Senate on a regional basis, excluding the possibility of assigning the seat to candidates from other districts; it requires a constitutional body whose plenum is 315 senators; it sets out the principle of territorial representation, on the basis of which Sicily must be recognized the number of seats provided for in the division ruled by law. It cannot therefore be removed from you a senatorial seat in order to attribute it to another region which has no right to have it, unless it decides, once again, to despise the content of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u46	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u49	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I shall make a very brief explanation of vote, because I think I have already explained a great deal both in fact and in law what the problem is. I repeat that the only solution in line with the Constitution and the precedents of this House is not to assign the seat for the entire legislature, without this involving any vulnus. The Senate can in fact decide validly - as we have done so far - even with numbers lower than the plenum of the 315 senators prescribed by article 57, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, as it has happened in the past and as it continues to happen today. The majority ask for an act of responsibility, if it is capable of it: to the 5 Star Movement, to recognize the error and not to claim an extra senator; to the League, not to bend to the request of the allies and not to consume on the Constitution yet another exchange in order to keep the Government alive. For these reasons, I would like to announce the vote in favour of Mr Liberi and Mr Uguali on the agenda presented by me.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u50	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Grasso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u53	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to point out that my card did not work. I would therefore like to say that I voted in favour of the G1 agenda, as it is obvious to me, because it did not appear on the board. I ask the Presidency to take note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u54	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u57	GINETTI (PD). Mr President, this is the last opportunity we have to draw attention to an extremely important vote, at the conclusion of an iter which has seen a lengthy investigation, lasting more than nine months, during which we questioned, in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, the regulatory principle to be used to solve an important issue: the award of the seat in Sicily, made vacant to the Senate for lack of candidates on the 5 Star Movimento list. We have verified that in the past there have been similar cases, which have not been answered, even in the presence of different electoral laws, and therefore the plenum has not been reached, precisely because of the lack of references that would allow this passage. Today the majority - and by majority vote - decides that, in order to reach the plenum, it is possible to violate not only the electoral law, but a principle and a constitutional norm, thus giving rise to a very dangerous precedent: the Junta and then the Assembly, with a political majority vote, can tear in a second legal foundation of a constitutional system and a state of law and liberal, which is based precisely on respect for the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] As has been mentioned, this is a violation of the electoral law, because it is expressly forbidden to assign a seat to a region, taking it from the electoral outcome of a different regional territorial constituency, pursuant to Article 57 of the Constitution and Article 17-bis of the electoral law. In this way the Junta and the Assembly attribute themselves to a power which goes beyond their powers, constituting, as I have already pointed out, an excess of power which goes beyond self-dedication and which could be submitted to the Constitutional Court to verify the feasibility of the exercise of these powers, which we are attributing, but which do not compete with us. At this moment, therefore, we are passing on a political truth, which, however, violates our Constitution. I therefore call on you, at this stage before the vote, to examine your conscience, so that, in this eighteenth legislature, we do not leave a very dangerous precedent to the historical memory of Parliament's political life. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask that, beyond the political part to which we belong and the game that characterizes the relationship between opposition and majority. There are times when the sense of the institutions is due, also to regain the confidence of the citizens in politics, which is failing. I want to use a very important term: here you risk a vow, anti-system and anti-institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! GINETTI (PD). I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to be very careful and conscientious in the vote we are going to take. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u58	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G2 agenda, presented by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment G3, tabled by Senator Bonifazi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G4 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u61	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I rise for a very brief explanation of vote. The Democratic Party will vote firmly in favour of this agenda, which attempts to bring back the work of this House in the canons that should belong to all our activities. My colleague, Mrs Ginetti, has used the term 'exversive' and, indeed, we must have some concern. We, once again, are not considering the real content of the electoral law. In order to reach the decision to assign the seat in Umbria we have taken the electoral law and we have read it to pieces and bites: what we like we take from account, what we do not like we put aside. Senator Patuanelli is right when he said that this electoral law has flaws and these defects will have to be put in hand, but with an organic reading of the electoral law and with the wish to immediately correct these shortcomings, in order to avoid finding ourselves, once again, in this extremely embarrassing position in which we find ourselves this evening. [[Applause from the PD Group]] True, a mistake was made, perhaps in a hurry, perhaps for any other reason. We know, having seen it in Junta, where we have had to check the ballots several times, to what mistakes the members of the polling stations have been brought, who have made mistakes even very gross, precisely because of an interpretative defect. It was extremely difficult, in fact, to carry out even the debris operations, precisely because of the lack of law. At this point, however, one cannot help but say that reading should have been an organic reading; organic reading which, following the various passages, inevitably leads, as it is written on the agenda that we are preparing to vote, to say that it is absolutely impossible to accept the rapporteur's proposal, but it is necessary to move in compliance with the content of the electoral law. Therefore, according to article 17- bis, paragraph 2, even with the various references that make us triangulate the content, it is not possible to attribute the seats not assigned to the candidates of one circuit to one circuit of another Region. We will therefore vote in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u62	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4, presented by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G5 agenda, presented by Senator Ginetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G6, presented by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u65	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I refer to the statements already made and therefore my vote will be against, in line with what I have said in relation to the proposal adopted by a majority with a resolution by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u68	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resounding, unexpected and, in my opinion, unrepeatable result of the 5 Star Movimento in Sicily has produced, as an unwanted consequence, a serious vulnus; indeed, more than a serious vulnus. It has produced a serious vulnus to the principle of political representation, because Sicily is with one less senator than the one that assigns it the Constitution and has produced a serious vulnus also to this House, because in this House there is one less senator than the Constitution provides. It is a serious vulnus not due to the still bad electoral law that we of Brothers of Italy, in fact, have not voted, unlike others who today criticize it after having voted it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] This vulnus, however, is not due to the electoral law, but to the same Movimento 5 Stars which, as many have observed during the debate, presented less candidates than they could have presented. It is clear that if a political movement presents fewer candidates than the law allows it, then it cannot complain if it has less elected than the voters would have achieved. But beware, ladies and gentlemen: these two vulnus cannot be answered by creating a third, because with the decision that is being submitted to the Assembly today we violate Article 57 of the Constitution, as many colleagues and the agendas presented by the other oppositions, which we have voted and supported. With this decision in fact we give one more senator than those provided by the Constitution to Umbria and we definitely decide that Sicily must have one less senator than those recognized by the Constitution. The last paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution clearly states that the seats of the Senate are divided between the various Regions in proportion to their population; we are therefore violating the fourth paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, as well as the first paragraph of the Constitution, which says that the Senate is elected on a regional basis. And so, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity is against the law, against the Constitution and is based exclusively on the arrogance of numbers and the majority, which imposes a dictatorship of the majority against the law, against the Constitution and against the same common sense. [[Comments of Senator Lanzi]] A majority, among other things, held back because I do not know how many people in this House know that the majority of the Junta was determined with only one senator of difference, not even belonging to the majority, since the senator who made the difference with his vote was the representative of the Group for the Autonomouss. And one wonders why the Südtiroler Volkspartei, with its decisive vote, prefers to bring such a serious vulnus to the Constitution, supporting the yellow-green majority. It is a political question that I believe in this House that all political forces should ask themselves. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we shall be voting against the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunity. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u71	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous case of ministerial immunity - I am referring to the case of Mr Salvini and Mr Diciotti - as the PD Group, we had already expressed our embarrassment at reckless and legally embarrassing solutions. Today, this embarrassment is compounded by the bitter awareness that one of the darkest pages of republican parliamentary history is being written. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's not an exaggeration, it's not the use of emphatic tones to increase attention - that's an art that does better to you than the majority -, it's an objective fact. Today we are being presented with a proposal which is not a question of what our activities can do. Today there is more: the proposal voted by the majority of the Junta goes beyond: it is an act of change, of regime, has the flavor of real abnormity. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not exaggerate and I ask myself and ask you: but all the constitutionalists who shouted at the risk of an authoritarian drift where they ended up? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Why do they remain silent in the face of such abhorrence? It is really strange because the matter is known and known. Article 57 of the Constitution, first paragraph, provides for the Senate to be elected on a regional basis, point. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A specification is absent, not by chance, in the analogous provision of the Constitution concerning the Chamber of Deputies. Is that a case? It will also make sense to have his lexical presence in the Constitution only with reference to the Senate. Could no one remind you of the interpretation given by the Presidency of the Republic at the time of Ciampi, who invited the Government to amend the amendment to the electoral law that wanted to transform the majority prize from national to regional? The same Senator Calderoli, who perhaps today lacks memory, author of the electoral law, remembered him in a Senate session in August 2013. It has always been so, Mr President, and also by re-reading the accounts of the hearings of constitutionalists in the Chamber's Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the last parliamentary term, during the drafting of this electoral law, no one, and I say no one, has ever admitted the possibility of predicting the shift of elected representatives to a list or coalition from Region to other Region, not even in the hypothesis of the exhaustion of the candidates of a list in a Region, as was expected for the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And also the approved electoral law, in the event of the exhaustion of the number of candidates presented in a plurinomial college, makes, yes, reference to Article 48 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361, but explicitly affirms the exclusion of the system of slippage, as provided for in the elections of the House. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And then, perhaps it would have been a useful exercise at least to reread the preparatory work of the laws in force. You would have discovered, for example, that it was for peace that the new electoral law for the Senate would not allow the so-called shift. "For the Senate," it was said, "they proceed similarly, with the difference that the rules that allow candidates to take over from other regions do not apply. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have just read to you the words of the rapporteur, Mr Torrisi. And so it is clear, Mr President, that the intention of the legislator was to avoid, even in the event of a vacation of seats, the shift from one constituency to another of the elected in the Senate, in line with the constitutional dictation, not as a discretionary choice. The majority's proposal then contains not only a constitutional abnormity, but also what the administrativeists call a clear violation of the law, because, even if it wants to silence statements of unconstitutionality, it is the law that explicitly excludes the slippage that you, on the other hand, want to realize today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It also appears at the limits of the ridicule to bring back from the window the criterion of the shift through what is a captious interpretation of several articles of the single text of the laws with rules for the election of the Senate of the Republic. Why then - and I ask the majority rapporteur, whom I also know as a man of law - and by what logic does the legislator first have explicit exceptions and then cancel them? [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are no doubts about interpretations of any kind. You're indefensible. There can be no such thing, because there is an express ban. However, if there were any doubts, it is well known that in cases such as these the criterion of the prevalence of the most constitutionally compliant interpretation must be supported and therefore the only regional part provided for in Article 57 of the Constitution and let's return to the point. That is why I am sorry, Mr President, in this parliamentary term this sort of verification of the à la carte elections. I say this because, re-reading the acts of the same Junta of the current elections, in particular the Report of 20 November 2018, you cannot remain silent in front of the embarrassing attempt, then failed, of the rapporteur Urraro to have elected in Sicily a candidate of the Movimento 5 Stars taken even from the list of alternates. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is when, as is well known, their role is limited to the submission of applications and has no subsequent value. Yet, you have tried to make candidates proclaim that they have never formally been candidates: things never seen! I turn then to the senators of the 5 Stars and ask them: was this the idea that you had of legality and honesty? Was that the wanting to open up institutions like cans of tuna? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Yet, as too much seems never enough, we have come to the proposal today. I am proud to have led - and you know that, Mr President - the body for the verification of powers in the last parliamentary term... Mr Rizzotti (FI-BP). Shame! STEFANO (PD). ...where it is always necessary, mandatory, I would say, even in the political dialectic and the inevitable difficulties of contingency, never trample on the right. RONZULLI (FI-BP). You did this last legislature! STEFANO (PD). It is a question of exercising a constitutional prerogative which is an exception to the rule of law and which is based on respect for the principle of separation of powers. [[Applause from the PD Group. Protests from the FI-BP Group]] RONZULLI (FI-BP). You and Grasso did it in the last legislature! [[Recalls of the President]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u72	Senator! STEFANO (PD). Precisely for this reason, the verification of the elections is a delicate subject and historically it is a sort of seismograph in the holding of the institutions. Giro (FI-BP). Shame on you, you clown! Buffoon! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let Senator Stefano finish. STEFANO (PD). Yes, of the institutions and you, Mr President, I believe that there is a huge, very serious responsibility: the proclamation of a senator that we could call abusive after a superfluous decision by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that does not absolve it, because it is quickly said that an abnormal decision is not the end of the world, but do not forget - I am going back to address my colleagues of the 5 Stars - that almost a century ago democracy ended substantially after the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies on 9 November 1926, in which the members of the House were declared to be deceased, forcing the electoral rules and parliamentary procedures on the verification of elections.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u73	[[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u75	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this has always been the case: when the parliamentary majority seeks the way of the regime, the first prerogative to be forced... [[Comments from the FI-BP Group]] Giro (FI-BP). Stop! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please let him finish, then you'll have plenty of time to replicate what he said. STEFANO (PD). When the majority seek the way of the regime, the first prerogative to be forced is precisely that of verification of powers, through unreasonable use of the force of numbers. And just today, in which it is so convenient to have an extra seat for the current majority so shaky in the Senate, while the leaders of the Movimento 5 Stars are busy in direct Facebook to declare that they are the ones that cut the seats, this damned extra seat is obtained by a real act of regime. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, that the Junta could return to political management we had taken into account, but that it would even become a laboratory for the exchange of parliamentary seats between the political forces of the majority seems an abomination to us. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is equally disturbing to us that no representative of the majority has had the courage to intervene in general debate. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is no accident that the silence of anonymity is sought. We won't allow it! PAPATHEU (FI-BP). He's been talking for an hour, but that's enough! STEFANO (PD). In accordance with Rule 113, we have asked for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot so that the names of the senators who voted in favour of this aberration remain in the record. Nor will we give up: our lawyers will impose the possible resolution by conflict of attribution before the Constitutional Court and then we will also resort to an exposure to the ordinary prosecutor, in case of proclamation, as indicated by the majority. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] PAPATHEU (FI-BP). Bravo! Bravo! STEFANO (PD). For all these reasons, if you insist, our vote will not only be against it, but above all it will be painfully against it because of constitutional necessity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] [[Comments from the M5S Group]] RONZULLI (FI-BP). What courage do you speak with? STEFANO (PD). No party interest can justify such a serious choice. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). But can they do what they want? [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u76	I'm picking them up, ma'am, I already said that. If Secretary Senators tell me what's going on, I'd be grateful to them, because I can't have 360-degree eyes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u77	MALPEZZI (PD). Stop listening. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] MIRABELLI (PD). Vice President, be a good girl.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u80	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I apologise on behalf of my Group, but the forcings never end and those we witnessed when Senator Stefano was presiding remain memorable in the history of the Senate, although he did not act alone. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group, which stands up.]] The story that took place in the Council for the Rules of Procedure we all remember and, therefore, Senator Stephen lessons of forcing cannot give it! Let me say that. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). Bravo! Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Malpezzi, sit down. [[Protests from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). No, I'm not sitting, I'm standing!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u81	Everyone can disagree, but can we listen to a debate in this House in a balanced manner without exceeding any kind of expression and dissent, which everyone can do when he is called to speak? [[Vivacious protests from Senators Malpezzi and Marcucci]] I'd prefer that, because I can't feel anything in total confusion. Please, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u82	I was saying that the forcing never ends. Forget about the past. Those of the present, on which we may also agree, occasionally, with those who preceded me, are equally serious. Even in the Junta - I do not forget to be the chairman of that body - when we concluded the examination of this matter, I intervened, obviously also taking into account my role and without forcing the tones, because the function I perform does not deprive me of the right to say my opinion, but it requires me to do so also taking into account a function that will then continue on other cases. In Junta I said - and I repeat this here - the things that many Members have said, namely that it is clear that the decision is unconstitutional. I want to say to Senator Urraro, who is the rapporteur and who supports a thesis that my Group and I do not agree with, that we have been thinking for a long time. I followed in the Assembly the reflection, at first the affair of the alternates, who seemed weak to everyone and also to the rapporteur, then this conclusion, which he politely set out, did not convince us. The rapporteur is an unfounded, erroneous, unconstitutional thesis and, beyond the grace with which you, unlike other colleagues, have illustrated it, remains a serious vulnus. A speech by Senator Calderoli, who is an experienced, authoritative and attentive Member of Parliament, was mentioned earlier. I also want to remember when Senator Calderoli, in an intervention even that of the full summer (it was August 7, 2013), telling the story of the electoral law, in his own defense, about that electoral law so reproached, said that he had certainly not done it alone: there were those who wanted the majority prize, who wanted another thing; in short, as is normal in democracy, the laws are the fruit of many wills. On the issue of the regional prize, which characterized that electoral law, and which determined many discussions, because it was said that if the majority prize had been national also to the Senate as in the House, perhaps we would have a greater governability and stability, it happened that the then Presidency of the Republic - I refer to President Ciampi, but I quote a speech from President Calderoli of August 2013 - intervened in terms of moral suasion. These things are not codified, may or may not happen, but it is known that a reference to the fundamental principles of the order, who is the supreme guarantor can also do so informally. In order to avoid a dispute or that the electoral law was postponed to the Chambers and all the constitutional procedures provided, evidently, after a preliminary reflection - President Calderoli told us years later, but the professionals knew it - he told us that, precisely by virtue of the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution for which the Senate elected itself on a regional basis, that electoral law in itinere was done in this way. From which political consequences came, because the electoral results of the various regions are different, the majority prizes are different and therefore also the democratic will of the people underwent a different evaluation. I quote this precedent because it is a fundamental issue that I have allowed myself to mention in the Junta, after which I could add many other things, but at this point in the debate I do not think it is necessary. It was also done by Senator Malan, who was one of the minority speakers, who also on behalf of our Group and in the light of the work he has done in the Junta of which he is a member, cited not only the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution, but also the various electoral laws and specified that there is a clear limit to the theoretical postponement, which is then translated here in a practical way, to the application of the law of the House. First a journalist, on the phone, asked why a Umbrian senator came out, then, since the newspapers are at risk of explaining such a complex subject badly, it has been explained that it is the pinball mechanism, as the journalists called it, that there is in the House, so a rest of a certain size of another region can have one seat covered in another. At the Senate, however, this cannot be done and the laws cited in the various minority relations say so clearly, so we are faced with a vulnus. As President of the Council, I could not prevent a vote, although in my opinion it was clearly unconstitutional, and the President of the Senate also told us earlier about the Conference of the Leaders and some sort of letter, but neither can the President of the Senate prevent a vote that the Senate will take on its responsibilities. Then, another body, the judge of the laws, on the basis of appeals that he will consider founded (not the letter, but what others will do) will assess whether it is the case. We are therefore faced with a vulnus and I would also like to add this: you, on the one hand, amend the Constitution to cut the seats and then violate the Constitution to add a seat to it. This is not a very serious way to behave. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then there is also the political reading: is the majority there or isn't there? One seat more or less makes a difference. If that were the reason, it would be even more serious. Therefore, starting to conclude, I wanted to make this explanation of vote, because it was also right at this stage to represent not only the positions of the Forza Italia Group, but also those of the President of the Council. To my colleagues in the League, I say that Calderoli told that story, so they should also reflect. As a politician, I understand the constraints of the majority, but when the bond of majority makes craps of the Constitution things are not going well and we want to emphasize it by inviting everyone to reflect. This is a decision that must go beyond the majority constraints: we are not approving a measure that is part of the government's programme, we are going to the principles of the law. Also on the vulnus of the lack of plenum of the Senate and the House you were told in so many speeches that we have precedents for which in the Senate there were not 315 members and the Senate operated the same. I remember - Calderoli will also remember - when the Chamber was 13 seats not assigned to my political part, which also governed the entire legislature. Then there was another law, there was the split, there was no split, there were the owl lists and therefore an overabundance of votes that in that case determined a self-harmful effect and the legislature ended without the attribution of those seats. I do not know if at the time the President of the Council was Senator La Russa; on the contrary, if we were a majority he would have been a member of the minority, as the practice implies. We discussed an entire legislature and the seats were not allocated: 13 seats, not one, colleagues, and even the House, which has twice the number of members, was a significant size. The principle of the other paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution was therefore considered prevalent in the work of the Junta, where the proposal was approved for a vote, because the outcome of the vote was 12 to 10; if it had been 11 equal the proposal would have been rejected, the rapporteur would have taken note of it, so there would have been no vulnus and there would be no substantial vulnus if the Senate operated with 314 members plus the senators for life, just as there was no senators in the past and there was no room with a broad dimension. Making this choice is very serious and I agree and I am very impressed that many of those constitutionalists who arise on so many issues concerning castes, caste, presumed or real privileges and who also make editorialists of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), of the great newspapers and not only of the "Facto Quotidiano" (Quotidiano), have completely kept silent in the face of this very serious violation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I therefore hope that Senator Urraro's report can be rejected, but I also wanted to leave this speech because one day someone, the scholars, the thesis (the insights into such a thing will be there) will not say that it has not been said here that the Constitution is being violated. We will reject your report to defend the truth, democracy, the Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Ferrari and Marcucci.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u85	RICCARDI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the seat not assigned in the Region of Sicily was a unique case which hit the Junta with in-depth and prolonged debates on the legal solution most suited to constitutional precepts. Despite the lively dialectic between the political forces and the diversity of views between them, a solution was sought that was legally sustainable for the resolution of a problem that directly involves, in an unprecedented way, the composition of the Senate and that guaranteed at the same time the proper balance of the constitutional principles of extreme importance, such as respect for the popular will which descends as a corollary of the democratic principle, referred to in Article 1, the principle of regional election of the Senate and the principle of safeguarding the plenum itself. Surely the principle of respect for the will of the people is the criterion to be followed in the solution of this issue: it is a supreme principle of the constitutional order that cannot be subjected to any pressure and that finds its maximum expression at the time of the political elections. In particular, in the last national electoral round, the sovereign people pronounced themselves in an incontrovertible way in favor of the Movimento 5 Stars, assigning to it a number of seats greater than the number of candidates in the single-name colleges and plurinomial lists of the island. The clear expression of the will of the people is a given from which to start in order to be able to resolve the issue before this House. Therefore, any solution involving the assignment of the seat to other lists, other than the Movimento 5 Stars, would be a solution contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution and the proportional allocation of seats. The popular will would be strongly distorted. Given this reasoning, the Junta was faced with two possible alternatives: either to find the correct way of attributing the seat to the Movimento 5 Stars or not to guarantee the full number of the Assembly. In the first case, the problem arises of respect for the election on a regional basis of the Senate, while, in the second case, the problem arises of the failure to reach the plenary assembly. Both are constitutionally guaranteed and deserving of protection, but for this reason they cannot be modelled in concrete regulatory solutions on the basis of a balance between constitutionally guaranteed principles. As far as the principle of the plenum is concerned, the House of Deputies was already faced with the problem of the allocation of eleven seats which remained vacant mainly because of the mechanism of the separation then provided for by the current electoral law. In the debate on the matter it became clear that the hypothesis of the necessary completion of the Chamber's composition was not sustainable, as it presupposed the idea of the Legislative Assembly as a perfect college. This definition, in doctrine and in jurisprudence, refers to the administrative collegial bodies required to carry out technical evaluations. In these colleges, the constitution and deliberations cannot be validly taken place except by guaranteeing the full number of members. The same requirement does not apply to a representative political body, since the electoral legislation expressly covers cases of vacation of seats or supplementary elections, without requiring the interruption of assembly activity on their slopes. Assuming, in fact, that a Chamber can operate only with the plenum would mean admitting that any cause, even occasional, can prevent the legitimate functioning of the organ. At the end of the debate, the Assembly opted not to guarantee the plenum. As you can see, a constitutionally relevant principle, the composition of the Assembly with 630 Members was compressed. But why did this decision take place? Because the electoral law in force at the time did not provide for the resolution of the specific case, there was in essence no rule of closure of the electoral system, contained in a source of primary rank, which legally outlined the procedural aspects to be followed. Then we have to ask ourselves a question, and it is the question that the rapporteur, Mr Urraro, has asked himself to dissolve the node of the Sicilian seat: is there a rule of closure in the current electoral law which allows the seat to be assigned by means of its application? The answer is yes, and the rapporteur's conclusions have been well highlighted. Article 19 of the single text for the election of the Senate identifies certain criteria applicable in a residual way, where it was not possible to assign all seats in accordance with the ordinary arrangements provided for in Article 17-a. In this way it allows to assign the seat in the circus where the list has the largest decimal part of the quotient not used, by double referring to Articles 86 and 84, paragraph 4, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957, that is the single text for the election of the Chamber. Many have criticized the application of this rule, as it would be contrary to Article 57 (1) of the Constitution. But at an organic reading of the electoral law for the Senate, the election on a regional basis is always respected in the ordinary way of allocating seats. In fact, if a list has exhausted the number of candidates submitted to a multi-annual college and it is therefore not possible to allocate all the seats to it in that college, it shall be carried out in accordance with the following procedures. In the first instance, the seats are assigned to the list in the other plurinomial colleges in the same constituency in which it has carried the highest remains, proceeding in descending order. If the results of such operations still remain seats to be assigned, they shall be assigned to candidates on the non-elected list in the single-member colleges of the original plurinomial college or, failing that, in the district. In cases where even such operations do not allow all seats to be allocated, they shall be assigned to the list forming part of the same coalition of the deficit list which has reported the highest remaining posts within the original plurinomial college or, failing that, in the district. As is clear, electoral legislation does not identify the seat in another regional constituency. Only then does the closing rule provided for in Article 19 of the above-mentioned single text for the election of the Senate occur. The seat which remains vacant for any cause, even if it has occurred, shall be identified, in the event that a list has already exhausted its candidates, in accordance with Article 84 (2), (3), (4) and (5). Therefore, the criteria set out above apply and, only in the last instance, the seat in another regional area is identified, namely the one in which the list has the most decimal part of the non-used quotient. Article 19 is a closing rule to prevent a seat from remaining vacant for any cause, even in the event of an accident. This last rule, therefore, achieves a balance between the constitutional principles guaranteed by Article 57 of our Charter, the formation of the plenary assembly and the election of senators taking place on a regional basis. The election on a regional basis is always guaranteed, until the last one, as long as it manages to guarantee the principle of the formation of the plenary assembly referred to in the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution. This balance between principles results, in fact, in a reversal of the order of the criteria for the allocation of seats provided for in Article 84 of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957. Thus, for the election of the Senate, the criterion provided for in Article 84 (4) applies only in the last resort, when, according to the criteria referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5, referred to in Article 17 -bis, it is not possible to assign all seats within the constituency. I might object: if the closing rule exists, why has it not been applied by the electoral office? As noted by the same office, from the reading of the discipline referred to in Articles 17 -bis, 18 and 19 of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993, it is evident that the combined provision of Articles 19, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree No. 533 of 1993 and 86, paragraph 2, of the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1957 is intended to apply only after the proclamation made by the regional electoral office pursuant to Article 18 of the same decree, assuming that, at the outcome of the completion of all electoral operations, the seat remains vacant for any cause, even occurred. In any event, the regional electoral office notes that it is the sole responsibility of the election board to resolve disputes concerning the allocation of vacant seats. Returning to the initial question: is there a rule of closure in the current electoral law that allows the seat to be assigned through its application? Yes, and it has to be applied. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear about the role of the Junta and its primary task: to apply the law. Nothing more: no creative thesis of the law nor disapplications of norms for alleged unconstitutionality of the same. It is all too easy to say to date that it is up to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of the rules and not the Junta, let alone the parliamentary majority of which I am a member. Colleagues, when questions are at stake concerning our institutions, democratic rules, so-called rules of play, there is no logic of majority or opposition that holds; there can be no institutional rifts justifiable according to opportunistic logic. Among other things, we have analysed and asked for the application of electoral legislation, and in particular a closing rule, adopted in the last parliamentary term by another majority, of which some members, who now sit among the opposition benches, criticize its constitutionality or application. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] In the PD's letter to the Presidency, it is pointed out that, with the assignment of the seat, the legitimacy of any future deliberations taken by the Senate could be undermined, as the composition of the Senate would be illegitimate. Without any ruling from the Court, you are saying that the rule is unconstitutional. However, we have had parliaments whose members have been elected by an electoral law declared unconstitutional, the Porcellum, and it does not seem to me that the relevant deliberations have been invalidated. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Mr Ferrari (PD). Calderoli made that law! RICCARDI (M5S). As the Constitutional Court has pointed out, the elections that have also taken place in application of the electoral rules declared constitutionally illegitimate constitute, in the end, and with all evidence, a final fact, since the process of composition of the Chambers is carried out with the proclamation of the elected. With thirdness and institutional rigour, in order only to guarantee the good of the institution of which we are honored to be a member, we ask everyone to avoid pretentious polemics. The task of the Junta is to apply the current electoral legislation. The regulatory references highlighted by the rapporteur, Mr Urraro, highlight the steps to be taken to assign the seat. And we intend to follow them. There is no analog application, no creative thesis of law, but a mere application of the single text. For these reasons, I declare our vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u86	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: No XVI, n° 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] To allow the Junta... [[Some Senators of the PD Group show copies of the Constitution to the cry of Shame!]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, let me continue. In order to allow the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out investigations concerning the identification of the candidate entitled to be proclaimed on the basis of the resolution approved by the Assembly, I authorize the Junta to convene itself now, in Sala Pannini. FARAONE (PD). Gasparri, save us!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u87	The next item is the debate on document III, No 2. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly the annulment of the election of Senator Edward Patriarch in the Emilia-Romagna Region. The report has been printed and distributed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Paroli, whether he intends to intervene to supplement the written report. Mr Marcucci (PD). No, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What is it?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u88	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u90	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, you cannot allow the Junta to convene and continue the work of this House. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] What does the rapporteur do? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u91	I interrupt for five minutes, to give way...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u92	Mr Marcucci (PD). For what it takes, I do not know whether it will be five minutes, but the meeting of the Council cannot take place at the same time as the sitting of the Assembly. Mr Verducci (PD). You must suspend, Mr. President! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would point out that it has always been done. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Mr Marcucci (PD). He's always hurt himself! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Now let us see if there is a request to suspend, but when a proclamation or identification has taken place, the sitting of this House has always continued and there are no precedents of this kind. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I can't hear you talking out of the microphone. Mr Marcucci (PD). If the rapporteur is in the Chamber, how can he stay there in Junta?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u93	Senator Marcucci, I don't know about that. I was asking the rapporteur, Mr Paroli, if he was going to intervene in order to supplement the written report: I was hardly able to formulate the question and I was waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u94	Mr President, I wish to speak in order to supplement the report. MALPEZZI (PD). But he must also go to Junta!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u95	If it wishes to supplement the report, the Council cannot meet. I am suspending the sitting in order to see to it that the Junta is convened. (The sitting was suspended at 6.45 p.m. and resumed at 7.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u96	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has announced that, in accordance with Article 19 of the Legislative Decree of 20 December 1993, No 533, the allocation of a seat following the approval of the report on the issue of the seat not assigned in Sicily, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate to whom the seat is assigned is Emma Pavanelli. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I proclaim Senator Emma Pavanelli. [[Applause]] I would warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u99	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak on the order of business, in order to denounce the bitterness that I objectively carry within me. Today the Senate has written a dark page that will certainly remain in the history of this Assembly. Obviously, the conduct of the work of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has been absolutely impeccable and I give once again to President Gasparri that he has behaved with the utmost correctness, in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. I cannot say, however, about the behaviour of the majority, which - I believe for the first time in the history of the Junta - has called into question the identification of the candidate who should take over. For the first time in the history of the Junta has asked for a verification of those works, which - at least since I have been here in the Senate and I have participated in numerous sessions of that kind - has never happened. And it was done exclusively to take time, because the majority did not have the numbers to move forward. Now, if events of such delicacy must be decided on the basis of agreements already made, in order to achieve the results that the majority alone cannot achieve, in spite of all the rules that have always been applied, it is clear that the oppositions have little to do, even when you have numbers and you interrupt the work because you must reach the result at all costs. You know, Mr President, that the rapporteur is assigned to each region according to an automatism criterion. However, since the first meeting of the election committee, I had made it clear a long time ago that it was inappropriate for the rapporteur to be one of that party, where there were problems relating to a particular party. Today, in fact, it was a testament to what I had amply predicted at the first meeting of the Election Junta, that the rapporteur, who was of the Movimento 5 Stars and had every interest in completing the ruin that was done today of the Constitution, wasted time until he was allowed to reach the number that was missing at that meeting. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] I say this exclusively so that what has happened remains in the proceedings of this House, so that any excuses and reasons can be refuted. I would also remind you that every senator, who can also say that he is leaving work, until the vote is opened can safely return to his steps and participate in the vote, in order to avoid the arguments that are likely to be brought forward, because we had decided not to participate because we are making a mess of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] It should also be borne in mind that we perhaps had the opportunity to put a very serious event back on track for the history of the Senate, our Republic and our democracy, which is being trampled on indecently today. I have asked to speak for this very reason, so that what has happened here today remains in the record. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u102	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, as rapporteur, I should like to respond to what Mr Cucca said. First of all, I would point out that the management of the Junta is not the task of the rapporteur, but of the President, who voted against that of the majority, and therefore I exclude that he has lent himself - as Senator Cucca says - to instrumental suspensions or anything else. CUCCA (PD). Absolutely! CRUCIOLI (M5S). Relaxing the whole House, as well as Mr Cucca, who was instrumental in accusing me, what has happened is a very simple fact and I would say rather trivial. Since the identification of the new senator who will have to come to cover the vacant seat follows rather complicated mathematical calculations, which the offices have carried out and which - contrary to what Senator Cucca says - the Junta has the duty to verify, I asked simply to be able to see how the calculation was carried out and to be able to verify actually, given the importance of the identification of the college with the major remains, that that was the college where to go to fish the senator who has to cover the seat. Nothing simpler and more linear. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u105	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I would like to speak very briefly to support the complaint made by Senator Cucca of how the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities was conducted. We are faced with a rapporteur who has come to this House to explain to us that the seat had to go to Umbria because it had the highest rest and then in Junta he asked to check those accounts that he had obviously had to do before coming to the House to make a proposal. [[Applause from the FdI, PD, Mixed Groups and Senator Caliendo]] Otherwise, we should believe that the rapporteur has come to this House to make a proposal based on the case, without having first verified those numbers on the basis of which he made that proposal. All this happened because I said that I would vote against the Junta's proposal, because it is and remains unconstitutional. The PD, which had previously announced that it would leave the Chamber, after listening to my statement, has returned and has declared to vote against; at that point the proposal voted by the Junta would not have passed and we would have rejected this violation of the Constitution. The rapporteur then, who belongs to the same party as those who become senators on the basis of this violation, has wasted all the time possible and imaginable with ridiculous arguments to allow those who could have overturned the result to arrive. This is what has come and is shameful. [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP, PD and Mixed Groups. Senator Crucioli points out that he wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u106	There's no replay. If there are no speeches from other groups, I will move on to the next point. CRUCIOLI (M5S). He spoke of ridiculous motives!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u107	The rapporteur, Senator Paroli, asked to supplement the written report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, there is a report by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities which has been handed over very promptly. However, in view of the importance of this report, it seems appropriate to sum up, albeit briefly, in a brief speech, the fundamental points of the work carried out by the Council and the Committee which I had the honour to chair and which dealt with the issue of the elections of Emilia-Romagna. As colleagues know, following the elections for the Senate, held on March 4, 2018, the regional electoral office of Emilia-Romagna, after having determined the individual electoral figure obtained by each candidate in the eight single-member colleges of the Region, has proclaimed elected in each college the candidate who has reported the highest number of valid votes. In particular, Senator Edoardo Patriarch, who had obtained 85,542 votes, was proclaimed elected in the one-year college No. 5 (Modena). The first of the unelected in the college was Stefano Corti, who had obtained 85,504 votes. The Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity has deliberated in the session of 25 September 2018 the institution of a Committee composed of the undersigned, rapporteur for the Region, Senators Augussori, Cucca, Durnwalder and Senator Gallicchio, for the revision of the ballots declared null and void, assigned and not assigned by the regional electoral office; mandate then integrated in the session of 9 April 2019 also with the verification of the blank ballots. The Committee met at its meetings on 19 December 2018, at 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. and at 4 p.m. to 3 p.m.; 22 and 30 January 2019; 20 and 26 March 2019; 4, 9, 10, 11, 17, 18 and 30 April 2019; 15 and 29 May 2019; 3, 4 and 17 June 2019. All this had a total duration of about thirty-one hours. In particular, 4.408 blank, 3.154 blank and 14 unallocated contested cards were examined. This is also to take note of the Committee's very timely work. In its concrete activity, the Committee therefore considered to apply, with careful appreciation and without rigid automatism, the criteria for dividing ballots which, in an abstract and general manner, the Junta finally adopted after a detailed discussion at its meeting on 20 November 2019. In particular, the Committee considered that the basic principle to be followed in the investigation was the favored vote aimed at safeguarding the validity of the votes contained in the card whenever it could be deduced the effective will of the voter in full respect of the parameters of univocity and non-reducibility of the vote. This indication has been applied in practice in the case-law which was found during the ballot and has obtained the substantial consent of all the members of the Committee, who then reviewed the ballots without ever having to vote. On the basis of the review carried out by the Committee, it was found that the candidate Corti recovered 276 votes (43 valid whites, 231 valid invalids and 2 valid challenged), while Senator Patriarch recovered 183 votes (16 valid whites, 165 valid nulles and 2 validated contested). On the basis of the proclamation data of the relevant electoral offices, it is recalled that Senator Patriarch was elected with a difference of 38 votes compared to candidate Corti, the first of the non-elected. Therefore, at its meeting of 26 June 2019, the Giunta, on a proposal from the rapporteur who summarized the results of the inquiry conducted by the Committee, unanimously decided to accept the appeal of Mr. Stefano Corti and to declare therefore contested the election of Senator Edward Patriarch. The conduct of the public session on 16 July 2019 then had as a consequence the meeting in the chamber of council by the same Junta, which then resolved the annulment of the election of Senator Edward Patriarch in Emilia-Romagna. In this regard it should be noted that the decision of the Board to propose the annulment of the election of Senator Patriarch derives exclusively from the result of numerical investigations deriving from the application of the basic principle - first mentioned - represented by favor votes aimed at safeguarding the validity of the votes contained in the card whenever it can be deduced the effective will of the elector. The outcome of this complex work of inquiry has determined a numerical result of itself objective, immediately reported by the applicant to the Junta. Therefore, it was confirmed that the Junta itself was justified by the establishment of a special Committee, which - as has already been pointed out - carried out a review of all the blank and contested ballots assigned by the regional electoral office, the Junta's proposal confirms, with its report, the contestation of the election of Senator Edward Patriarch.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u109	Before continuing, I would like to point out to Senator Crucioli, who has continued to raise his hand, that - in accordance with Rule 92 (2) of the Rules of Procedure - only one speaker against and one speaker in favour can speak after the proposer. Having spoken against and Senator Balboni in favor, I could no longer give her the floor. I had to say that because I saw that he continued to insist. CRUCIOLI (M5S). I was asking for a personal statement, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If so, you will be able to do so at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u110	Mr President, the reasoning that has been made in the Junta has already been extensively and comprehensively explained by the rapporteur, Mr Paroli. There are, however, some clarifications to be made. The work of the Committee - of which the speaker was also a member - has been carried out in a very quiet way and the result is what has been explained to you. There is, rather, a question to be asked about what happened during the public sitting. In fact, we have come to the Committee as a result of a result of the objectively very dancer elections: only 38 rejection votes. Today we are examining the matter on a gap of only 55 votes, following the Committee's work. In fact, we have found that the mistakes made in the course of the stripping operations were absolutely gross and, therefore, we believe that it would have been and would be useful to deepen. Moreover, these errors were then consecrated: as I said earlier, due to the difficulty of interpreting the electoral law there was a clumsy interpretation, with objective differences and difficulties that led to that result. Then there was the revision of the contested and white ballots - with an adjustment I think it is right that it has also allowed the examination of the blank ballots - so we arrived at a difference of only 55 votes. Well, in the public session of 16 July, Senator Patriarch was forced to read personally the memory prepared by his lawyer, not being able to avail himself of the technical skills - in that case technical defense is allowed - in that case the application was rejected, accompanied by a medical certificate, and therefore for a legitimate impediment of the defender, with which he was asked to postpone the session. This clearly represents a grave vulnus to the right of defense of Senator Patriarch. In this regard, I would like very quickly to refer to the judgment of the Court of Cassation No 18256, to united sections, which took place on 7 July last, which finally stated that the bodies of the autodichia are courts and for this reason the rules of the jurisdiction must be applied to them. The Senator Patriarch had the right to have a technical defense, a defense that explained in a thorough way the reasons why it was necessary to appeal and therefore to accept the request for revision of the ballots, considered - as I said - also the small difference of 55 votes (as practically the 38 that had led to the formation of the Committee). The main question was, therefore, whether all the cards of that college should be revised or, in the alternative, a sample check of a percentage which should have been decided. The petition has been rejected and we believe that this really represents a violation of the rights of defence of the Senator Patriarch, who could not avail himself of it, even if permitted by law, because it has also been said that it is a power: if it is, the Senator Patriarch intends make use of it. It was correct that before a court it demanded the presence of the defender, which was illegitimately prevented, as I have already had the opportunity to say. For these reasons, we have tabled the request for a suspensive issue under discussion, considering it essential to re-check and review all ballots, even in the light of the irregularities found. Therefore, in view of these arguments, it is requested that the Senate suspend the discussion of the document under consideration until the resumption of the work, after the summer break. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u111	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the suspensive question in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes. Since no one asks to speak, pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question suspended by QS1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind my colleagues that, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, until the closing of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council by submitting reasoned agendas. In the absence of such proposals, the Assembly will not vote, and the conclusions of the Junta will no doubt be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u112	Mr President, following the elections for the Senate on 4 March 2018, the Emilia-Romagna regional electoral office, having determined the individual electoral figure obtained by each candidate in the eight single-member colleges of the Region, has proclaimed the candidate elected in each college, including Senator Edward Patriarch. Against this proclamation has been appealed by the first of the unelected of the same college, Stefano Corti, who has evidenced the irregularities that - in his opinion - would have occurred during the ballots, in reference to ballots declared null in a series of sections indicated in the appeal itself. Therefore, following this appeal, the Giunta has set up a special Committee for the revision of blank, void and contested sheets, assigned and not, of the single-member college of reference, in particular the single-member college No. 5 (Modena). The Committee, during its work, complied with the criteria for revising the ballots that had been approved by the Junta at its meeting in November 2018, always taking into account the principle of favor votes. The result of the Committee has led to data which, in fact, have reversed the situation, so that the candidate Corti has been reassigned and recovered of the votes [[Brusio.]] Following the proclamation of the Junta of an inverted result, the dispute procedure was initiated in public sitting and then in the boardroom. Mr President, there have been situations in the chamber of the Council which clearly violate the Constitution and the constitutional guarantees. First of all, Senator Patriarch, who had decided to opt for a technical defense and not to defend himself, was precluded from being able to avail himself of the lawyer, as he was unable, for personal reasons, to intervene in the public session and, despite this, continued the proceedings in the chamber of council was, therefore, deliberated. I would like to point out that the constitutional principle set out in Article 111, and hence the right to a right to conflict between the parties on a level playing field, derives from the right process. Therefore, this principle has been violated, because the possibility of having a technical defence in session has been denied. In addition, we believe that the senator's request to carry out a further revision of all the ballots or, in the alternative, an important sample of ballots was legitimate, given that the outcome of the Committee's work gave a small gap between the two candidates and, therefore, not the absolute certainty of the electoral result. I would like to point out that there is no need for a specific appeal on the grounds that, pursuant to Rule 2 of the Rules of Procedure for the verification of powers, it is possible for the Junta to proceed on its own initiative to the investigations deemed necessary in order to adopt the subsequent deliberations. It was therefore his power - but I also say moral duty as well as legal - to check a greater number of ballots to be sure of the electoral result obtained in the college of reference. Basic principles have therefore been violated. Mr President, we are talking about the decadence of the senator's office. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and the expression of the people's will, which is in danger of being called into question here, because it was not intended to proceed with further scrutiny. This would not have involved any cost, but only additional working time. However, we would have safeguarded at least the honesty and above all the goodness of this work. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u113	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u114	Mr President, Senator Edoardo Patriarch in these sixteen months of parliamentary term - I stress sixteen months - has played the role of PD's Parent Company in the Commission of Public and Private Work, Social Security. He, as the Constitution says - it is a difficult day for the Constitution - represented the Nation in this noble House of the Senate of the Italian Republic. He took part in the votes of course, he signed amendments and certain choices, including those of a majority. I address my colleagues and my colleagues in the Commission to public and private work, social security and I give just one example: its qualified contribution to the law that the Senate is drafting on caregivers. The Senator Patriarch, my party partner, is a balanced man of great ethical depth, of deep competence and experience [[Applause from the PD Group),]] endowed with mediation arts, precious in such a difficult institutional time, because it has been and is fundamental for the dialogue between majority and opposition. Forget me, colleagues from the opposition, about the role that Edward Patriarch plays in the Commission. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have heard from the rapporteur that he has been elected to the Unifying College No. 5 in Modena with 38 votes different from the other candidate, who has appealed for at least 91 votes of preference. On the basis of the review carried out only on the blank and contested ballots, it appears that the candidate Corti recovered 276 votes and Senator Patriarch 183. Therefore, Stefano Corti would be elected with a difference of 55 votes: 38 before, 55 today. So, it's still a very narrow difference. This difference - as my colleague Mrs Ginetti has also said - should require a thorough examination of the mistakes made. And it should have required the Junta to go further, not just to the content of the appeal, for the sake of this House, so as to avoid any doubt about the perfect adherence between the exercise of popular sovereignty, so evoked today, and the election result. There were and there were conditions for the revision of all the ballots of the Modena electoral college and, in the alternative - as the senator asked - the sample revision of the valid ballots. But the senator's request was rejected in Junta. Now, the House is sovereign and I appeal to the institutional attachment of each of us and also to respect the right of defence. At the sitting of 16 July, in fact - as was mentioned earlier - the request for referral was rejected - Mrs Ginetti said that it cost nothing - given the absence of the lawyer. So, a vulnus is also found in the right of defence. Cicero said, in the first Cathylinaria: "O tempora," or mores, as it is illustrated in a beautiful room here in the Senate, in which we spend time between one suspension and the other of the session. Mr President, this day has been an outstanding testimony, which will remain carved into the civil, social and political life of each of us. To overcome these difficult times, we must respect the rules: meanwhile, the rules of civil coexistence, first of all the Constitution. I have tried to speak; we have spoken and discussed, even informally, on this day. Not having a common humus of rules is a very serious concern for democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Steger]] So, it was a duty of the Junta to go into more detail. Now the Assembly is sovereign and it is our duty to really deepen, to review all the ballots and, above all, to guarantee the right of defence, which must be assured to all the citizens, to all the citizens, to their representatives and, in this case, to the distinguished Senator Edward Patriarch. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u115	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a colleague of ours. In the present case, for a mere combination, he is a colleague of the Democratic Party, but he could be a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars, as of Forza Italia. I address you mainly a prayer, at least that of listening - and then we return to the subjective sense of responsibility of each one of you - that listening what we could not achieve in the morning on the issue of Sicily. So, ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view today, perhaps wrong, but we are convinced, they have been trampled on... President, I would like your attention. I'm sorry, but I want your attention. It's not a provocation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u117	I think I've had my attention since this morning, since 10:00.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u118	[[Applause from the M5S Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). The senator's talking now. Mr Laus (PD). President, I was only asking for your attention as a courtesy. He did not want to be my provocation; since we are making a speech about our colleague, I asked for the attention of all the senators who are showing it, and I would like the President of the Senate to listen to my reasoning as well. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Then maybe I'm wrong. That's the only reason I allowed myself to ask for your attention. This morning, from our point of view, perhaps wrong, the most obvious rules of law have been trampled on, macroscopically a constitutional norm. That is our point of view. Today, at this moment, from my personal point of view, we risk trampling also the rules of logic: not of common sense, but of logic. A logical-deductive argument also understands a child: starting from the knowledge of a known fact, one gets to the knowledge of an unknown fact. What happened, ladies and gentlemen, in this particular case? With the elections of 4 March, the applicant, Senator and colleague Patriarch - to whom my highest sentiments of esteem go, recognizing me in the speech of my fellow Parent - wins the college with a 46-vote advantage. The applicant, legitimately, says that out of about 300,000 voters, that advantage seems a little thin and rightly resorts. From the analysis of the count of null, white and contested cards changes the photograph and the applicant wins an advantage of 50 votes. Logic and common sense want the arguments put forward by the applicant in the first stage to be the same in the second phase. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It's only 50 votes. I wonder and ask you whether it seems normal for a colleague to be treated in this way. I'm not saying it's better to recount all the cards, but at least to sample them. That's what we're asking, nothing else. And the answer, which I hope will change, to date has been negative. But there is something that still does to me and it hurts more and it must hurt each one of you, and I know it will hurt you in your conscience. I am referring to the fact that in the sitting of 16 July Senator Patriarch - as I discovered a few minutes ago, not being a member of the Council - had to read personally the memory prepared by his lawyer, not being able to avail himself of the competence of the latter having been rejected the application, accompanied by a medical certificate, for postponement of the proposed session because of the absence of the lawyer himself. This was - again from our point of view - a serious vulnus of his right of defence. As Mr Cucca has rightly said, the jurisdiction of this House's self-dedication means that all the rules and, in particular, the rules of defence must be respected. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're not asking you to join the majority. In fact, at the time when the right to use an attorney is recognized, the same must be made concrete and therefore the Junta should have accepted the request to postpone the sitting in the presence of reasoned circumstances that do not allow the lawyer to be present in defense of his assistant. Therefore, it is clear that the right to defend Senator Patriarch has not been guaranteed in its fullness, in clear contempt of the trust relationship between the lawyer and his assistant. I am no longer addressing you, Mr President, because you do not listen to me, but to every single colleague. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We cannot trample on the rules of common sense and logic in this House. It is not possible, because on the rules of law it intervenes, when it can, the Constitutional Court but on those of common sense and logic only our conscience intervenes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Nannicini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u120	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I could speak for hours about the loss that would result for this Senate from the annulment of the election of a colleague with the unique competence and human qualities of the senator, colleague and master Patriarch. But that is not the point, because others could say the same of who could come to his place and especially because the issue that we must face with seriousness and transparency to protect the institution that we represent - the Senate of the Republic - is not the seat of this or that party, it is not the market of seats for which one comes to you and the other I take it: the theme is how to protect the sacredness - yes, the sacredness - of the will of voters in democracy. This will is all the more sacred the more difficult it is to determine why the margin of victory, the gap in a single college such as what we are discussing, is small and there are reasons that come from the process and that we have heard here today to believe that there have been material errors or irregularities in the allocation of votes to the seats. The margin of victory of my colleague Patriarch was 38 votes. There has been an appeal, legitimate, against such a small gap as my colleagues mentioned. After the recount, the applicant's margin of victory is 55 votes. We speak of 55 votes out of 171,000 valid votes, 0.3 per thousand, 3 per ten thousand. It is a percentage that I would not even know how to write because it does not exist, it is a number that approaches zero and that requires attention, transparency and seriousness in identifying the will of the voters of the uninomial college of Modena. In response to these 55 votes, there were 459 votes reassigned on the basis of the rereading of invalid ballots; 459 reappropriations against a margin of 55. The seriousness and transparency that we owe to the institution that we represent calls for attention and an additional investigation into what happened in the award of votes in the college of Modena. For this reason we asked not the moon but simply a procedure that has already been used by the Chambers in their autonomy: the recounting of a random sample of 10 percent of the valid votes, as was done by the Junta of the Chamber elections in 2006-2007 against the disputes about the elections of 2006, when Government and majority were center-left and the disputes were of the center-right minority. The center-left majority then decided to recount a sample of the electoral sections also recounting the valid votes. In the face of the irregularities we have heard today, in the face of such a demanding and ridiculous margin of victory, the protection of the sacredness of the voters' vote in Modena was the least that could be done. We say this to protect the establishment of the Senate of the Republic, not only because we want to defend a colleague we esteem and to whom we are bound by a relationship of political closeness and affection. This request of ours, if it is denied, will remain in the acts as a wound and a lack of attention to what is most sacred to us: the will of the voters. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u121	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u122	Mr President, I would like to return to the substance of the appeal and therefore to the subsequent decision on which we are called upon to take a decision, because the concepts are obviously not trivial and are not interchangeable. The Junta has concentrated in the judgment of a denunciation of irregularities, certainly not committed in bad faith, that have occurred in Emilia-Romagna in the past elections for the Senate. Why is this case relevant and too trivial to remember? It is in fact at stake the primary principle of freedom of the vote of the individual elector and respect for the will of the people and the attribution to the candidate of the vote that has been expressed. The irregularity occurred with reference to the confluence between the blank ballots or no votes, which were then regularly expressed. The first striking fact is in the number of errors counted and also in the severity of the errors committed. It is a fact that questions the whole of the votes cast, because if we want to maintain the point of adherence between the exercise of popular sovereignty, as expressed by the voters of the Modena College, and the result of the vote, the first consequence is that it cannot be a partial adherence: there can be no partial verification that then has a striking and so drastic consequence, because canceling the election of a senator and assigning the seat to another candidate is a very drastic decision. 20,03 p.m. (Follows RED). So the figure is undoubtedly partial and cannot remain so. If the data has to do with different errors in the attribution and therefore with a modus operandi characterized, albeit not by bad faith, by irregularities, this cannot be restricted only to a group of cards and cannot be a partial data, but it must be a verified data in the whole field, otherwise the fundamental and constitutionally protected principle of the voter's will fails exactly. In the case that has been examined before, among the many criteria evoked and that especially those who speak to you have evoked, there is that of the abnormal measure and of the inadmissibility. In this case, I appeal to another very important constitutional principle which must guide the interpretation of the rules, that of reasonableness, which refers to a consequenceality and logic of decisions. Where do we always have to arrest ourselves? When, after all the checks, it is then unreasonable for us to make a decision. In this case, surely the principle of reasonableness would impose a total recount or at least a sample, because having only looked at a part of the ballots does not give us a reliable figure from the electoral point of view. The second question - which has already been mentioned and which I would also like to refer to - concerns respect for the right of defence. The right of defence is or is not there. At a time when it is recognised, if I have to quote the report that is put to the vote, it is somewhat provocative to say that it cannot be evoked every time. It has happened that once a postponement was requested for legitimate impediment and it is not clear where the duty of cooperation between the parties has been violated. Always wanting to be on the principle of reasonableness, if one admits that, even in the presence of an impediment for the first time led and evoked, this cannot be valid, it is equivalent to saying that the right of defence is not there (because either there is or there is no). We can discuss whether there are repeated requests, but that is absolutely not the case. Among other things, let us remember that the absolute weakness of the rejection votes can only require a total revision or, at least, a sample of the valid ballots. The electoral question is not trivial and it is not mathematics: it is also very interesting to have to decide how a seat is attributed and on what criteria because it concerns the foundations of democracy. President. - I shall conclude with this consideration. The recount request has been assessed as non-essential. Again, what is the concept of essentiality? If there is no essentiality when irregularities have been detected which affect the whole of the vote or, in any case, leave a well-founded and very reasonable doubt, then who decides when a request is essential? For all these reasons, we insist that the vote that led to the election of our fellow Senator Patriarch should not be cancelled. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u123	Senator Rojc is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to speak on this occasion and on this day when the Magna Charta of the Republic was actually trampled underfoot. When elections are held, we often forget their original meaning in the broad discourse that we still share in Italy, the discourse of democracy. Citizens choose a political party, a candidate in which they recognize their values and it is up to us elected not to betray their trust. When, however, we are faced with something that is unclear, as in the case of the Modena constituency, where there have obviously been irregularities during the ballots, attention needs to be given to particular seriousness. Of course, we are not talking about bad faith, but rather about errors, although rather striking, made by the members of the electoral seat. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities proposes to the Senate Assembly the decision to cancel the election of Senator Edward Patriarch. First of all, let me make a note of deep esteem for a colleague who, with seriousness and dedication, has dealt with his position in this House. The seriousness occurred also during the session of the Junta, already mentioned, on 16 July, in which it was not wanted to postpone the session, thus causing the colleague, Senator Patriarch, a serious damage because he was left without his right of defence in the absence justified of his own lawyer. The Junta gave its opinion, rejecting the request for a sample review of valid cards with pretentious reasons. I would therefore strongly ask this House to proceed with the necessary revision of all the ballots of the one-name college in Modena, with respect for democracy and respect for the citizens who still believe in the elections in order to be able to express themselves freely, trusting in the institutions and in the State. Let us not fail in this trust of theirs. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u125	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u126	Mr President, we are dealing with this very important debate, having had to suffer only a few moments ago - not only us Senators of the Democratic Party, but this whole House and all the citizens - an unprecedented violation of the constitutional dictation. We consider it a very dangerous precedent. It took place in the vote, a few minutes ago, on the case of the seats in Sicily, in order to protect a power agreement between Movimento 5 Stars, Forza Italia and Lega, which led to trample on a rule that in its clarity does not need interpretations, but must only be respected: the dictation of Article 57 of our Constitution, which has been recalled today by us of the Democratic Party, several times, continuously, in this Chamber, which says that the Senate of the Republic is elected on a regional basis. Contravening this precept, which is the basis of the constitutionality of the electoral law, you have violated the Constitution in a spotty and outrageous way and betrayed the popular will, staining yourself with a guilty abuse of power and doing so for a mutual agreement, dictated by a sum of partisan interests that here become a gigantic conflict of interest, in the face of the Constitution, deceiving voters and citizens. We think, Mr President, that what has happened also casts a heavy shadow on the measure that we are facing now on the College of Modena. Do not repeat this deception even in the event that we are facing and that concerns my fellow Patriarch, one of the most important senators of our Group, but also in this House, who has been able to transfuse in this House his social commitment, his fight against inequalities, in favour of the weakest, of those who have no voice. We prevent the annulment of his election from giving rise to a new will. We have taken note of a series of irregularities which have emerged in the ballots, errors which certainly call into question the whole process of voting, and for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we have strongly asked for the revision of all the ballots of the college and incomprehensiblely not only is it said no to this, but it is also said no to the instrument of sample verification, even if it has been used several times. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking for this because the difference in votes is of the sole, very few handfuls and in the face of such minimal differences and differences, there must be a recount, there cannot be ambiguity, there must be no omissions: any doubt must be eliminated that you contribute to no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Irregularities show that there have been errors in the seats due to incorrect interpretation, and that is why we need the revision that we are asking for. In addition - and it has been said - this provision is for us affected by a vulnus in the right of defence of the Patriarch Senator before the Assembly of the elections, because in fact he was denied the possibility of using the defense of his lawyer, as is prescribed by the Regulations, a violation of the prerogatives of the Patriarch Senator all the more unacceptable in the face of a decision so important for the balance not only of this Assembly, but of our parliamentary democracy and our democracy absolutely. This, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly a decision which concerns Senator Patriarch, whose contribution to this House is a great added value, but it concerns respect for the citizens and for the will of the people and woe, colleagues, if in the vote barter, as already done in the Junta, for party or party interests what must instead be respect for this Assembly, for the truth, for the citizens and for popular sovereignty. That is why we ask you to reject this document, which we consider to be full of shadows and injustices. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u127	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u128	Mr President, I have the advantage of intervening in relation to this debate because authoritative speeches have facilitated the size of the issue. I would like to contribute by highlighting some other elements. It has been said of the value of my colleague, Edoardo Patriarch, and also of how this operation for which there has been deliberated in Junta has known three quarters of investigation in that place; three quarters of investigation that we should complete through this further dialogue that we should hold in the Chamber, avoiding exactly that attitude of belonging, of part, of particular interests, which in fact deny respect for the specific matter. Senator Lawyer Cucca and other colleagues who have also spoken have also given an important light to the new fact that has happened, namely the United Chambers Order of 7 July 2019, n. 18256 and that we do not invoke in overwhelmed terms with respect to the debate: it is an order that resolves 51% of the issues we are dealing with, because it specifies what must be done, what the scope of action must be, what is the qualification of the work of a domestic justice body. We speak of self-declaration, of internal corporis justice (which means that above itself has nothing), but this calls into question a quality supplement of work. Domestic justice does not mean domestic justice: domestic justice really evokes a supplement of third-partyness, impartiality. The judges, at the beginning of the extraordinary experience of the judiciary even made themselves recognized in their impartiality: they had the wig not for a matter of aesthetics but to depersonalize themselves; they had the toga that looked like the talar to be impartial. We cannot imagine that one entrusts a delicate matter which is the one who realizes parliamentary representativeness to a collegial body of domestic justice that then takes part, does the mathematics of partisan interests, that is, does the counting of the thing more on one side and less on the other, exactly the opposite of jurisdiction. "Jurisdiction" comes from "Judisdiction" which generates the scripture, which is then the jurisdiction, which has nothing to do with "justidia" and here we are before a page of jurisdiction! Attention, colleagues, attention! We know that when the Order of the United Chambers of the Cassation is evoked, which in magisterial terms Cassese commented that it is a point of certainty, it is not a loophole for the complexity of the issues of fairness to be addressed in the constitutional bodies. We must give rise to respect for the dialogical principle of contradiction, of defense, and it happened that Edward Patriarch could not listen to the defense of his lawyer who had the title to carry out defense. What are we talking about, then? I have a passion for history. The other day I was in the library of the Senate and I bought - with the legitimate discount - the text of the writings and speeches of Professor Miglio, who explained to us that, before democracy, the role, the place, the website of parliamentary representation was equivalent to the site of power that was conquered by the sword. We are losing a piece of parliamentary representation with the sword, not with justice. It is a knife stroke that is suffering the PD, Modena, that territory and Edward Patriarch. That is why we say no to the Junta's report. It's not an argumentative, dialectical no; it's not a statement: it's a no that wants to have the density of the stab wound you organized. Can one imagine that this decision of the Council can make jurisprudence? Will it be possible to quote tomorrow and the day after tomorrow when an unrepeatable good will be damaged? In fact, the legal condition of the expressiveness of parliamentary representation is not repeatable if this stab wound is generated. That is why I would like to say to you: let us give meaning and role to these speeches, to the space of the debate: 'Parliament' does not come from talking; it is to be confronted by talking, by entering into the substance. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We therefore vote no, but we continue to think that a chance should be given for further reading, further scrutiny and discernment. If a "fight" of discernment has given rise to this outcome, it must be given, balancedly, in the same way, another opportunity because the consequence of the deliberation is not without value. For these reasons I vote no; as Errani says - and not only him - I vote firmly no, and I would like to convince you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u129	The Senators of the Democratic Party Group who had signed up to speak have given up speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u130	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u131	Mr President, we sincerely regret it, especially for Senator Patriarch, we do not doubt it: it is not an easy situation, we understand the state of mind, after all that has happened. But the result of the Committee was clear: it will be true that there was an advantage of more than 40 cards before and now the advantage has changed in favour of the candidate Stefano Corti (more than 50), but - I tell you very clearly - asking for a sample check actually poses a problem. Sample control can be absolutely questionable in any situation. First of all, a sample check on which seats? The candidate could say that certain cards have been sampled but perhaps the seat or part of the college where the same was found to be stronger have not been taken into account at all. Therefore, to make checks can be there; the meaning of your speech is all there; however, on the other hand it is necessary to assess that in order to have a clear result you have to count all the cards again; which meant essentially to make years pass. Therefore, sample control is absolutely not functional. We understand the situation, but if the appeal was made on blank and blank sheets, the result of the Committee was absolutely clear. So we cannot think of not giving justice to an electoral result, because if the speech is to count all the ballots, you can imagine that it is easy to say that we will take little time, a few weeks; you also know well that then the committees must be found and must be present all the respective members (if there is someone who has some problem in the end does not come): the times risk to lengthen and it seems actually incorrect not to give justice to a candidate who would have deserved to sit on these benches of the Senate. So that's the result. We understand everything, and we are also sorry that there is a positive relationship between colleagues. MALPEZZI (PD). All you had to do was recount. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). On the other hand, however, if the result is that, justice must be done; the Junta has done all possible examinations and evaluations, therefore at this point the choice to vote the annulment of the election of the Senator Patriarch and the entrance of Senator Corti becomes absolutely legitimate and justified. That is what we wanted to stress and it was right to repeat it in this House, although we understand all the situations (and we have a similar situation, in our turn, because the case of one of our senators will be considered immediately to follow). It is therefore regrettable for colleagues who have to leave this seat in the end, but we must do what is right: the laws and rules are those; the Junta is there to do this job and the committees have done their job: it is all clear, so we can do nothing but go in that direction. There is really nothing personal about it, of course, but it is simply about compliance with the rules. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u132	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the proposal of the rapporteur and of the Council, without taking away anything from the qualities and professionalism of my fellow Patriarch, to whom we acknowledge that we are an important representative of this Senate and that we have contributed to the political dialectic in this House always with great balance and competence. With great respect for the person and his colleague, however, we do not believe that there are any reasons to contest the conclusions of the Junta. In particular, even with regard to the alleged violation of the Member's right of defence at the time of the public sitting, it is true that the lawyer who represented him - or who was to represent him - sent a medical certificate from which he was prevented. Just recalling the case law that Mr Cucca quoted a moment ago, however, if the Giunta is a court, then it must apply the jurisprudence that applies in similar cases before any court: the legitimate impediment of the lawyer is not sufficient to justify the request for referral. The lawyer must also attach at least one proof that he is unable to be replaced. We must not forget that, in this particular case, a memory had already been deposited, so certainly the need for technical defence could also be met by a valid substitute, professionally prepared. I therefore believe that the Junta has rightly decided to proceed further and to enter into the substance, without allowing the postponement. With regard to the recount, unfortunately, it has given an unfavorable outcome to my colleague Patriarch, albeit with very narrow and close numbers. Unfortunately, my colleague Patriarch had been elected by 38 votes in favour and the recount of the blank and null ballots, as we all know, while increasing the result of both candidates, led to a balance more favourable to the opponent, compared to the result of my colleague Patriarch, who had 38 votes more, found himself 55 less. In my view, the request to revise even all or even a part of the files in the college should, as a sample, be supported by precise indications. Mr Patriarch's defence should have indicated, in my opinion, the sections, seats and individual or multiple cases in which irregularities have occurred or the specific cases of cards deemed valid when they were not, or vice versa, in favour of one or the other. In this case, it seems to me that Mr Patriarch's request is purely exploratory. There are no particular cases denounced, there are no irregularities in the evaluation of votes, but there is a simple exploratory request and, as such, all the jurisprudence of the world tells us unfortunately that it is inadmissible. Therefore, while fully respecting the quality of the person and his colleague, the Brothers of Italy Group is obliged to express, for these reasons, a vote in favour of the proposal of the Junta. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u134	Senator Patuanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u135	Mr President, I should like to add a few words to what has already been brilliantly stated in the last speech and to what has been said earlier in Mr Romeo's speech. I believe that, by analysing the Junta's document before us, and also by retracing the work that the Junta has done, we cannot identify any points of fall or reasons why we should not proceed to the vote and, in our case, the expression of a vote in favour of the report proposed by the rapporteur. I therefore believe that the Junta has worked in the correct way, analyzing the cards that were to be analysed and looking at the material result to which this analysis has carried out. We have seen a very lively debate in this House on the previous document, because it was clear that there could be different interpretations of what we were called upon to approve, and it was correct that this debate should take place in this House, even in an open and in-depth way. In this case, however, I believe that, honestly, there are no elements to question the work of the Junta, nor to approve documents of opposite meaning. [[Senator Pharaoh's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u136	Senator Pharaoh, I haven't heard from you in a while.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u137	Go ahead, Senator Patuanelli. Patuanelli (M5S). Thank you, Mr President, I, too, honestly lacked Senator Pharaoh, and so I thank him for pointing out his presence. Therefore, the work of the Junta has been done in a totally correct way. I have heard several speeches calling to mind the competence, professionalism, character and peace of mind of Senator Patriarch: we have carried out several hours of session of the Commission public and private work, social security, during the examination of the decree dignity, and I can only confirm those words. On the other hand, however, this House must take note of the outcome of what happened in the Junta, regardless of the respect that the Senator Patriarch has earned throughout the parliamentary arc. For these reasons, the Movimento 5 Stelle will vote in favour of the Junta document and the rapporteur's report. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u138	The debate on this document is closed. The rapporteur does not intend to speak in his reply. I communicate that the agendas of the G1 were presented, signed by Senator Cucca and other senators, G2, signed by Senator Marcucci and other senators, G3, signed by Senator Marcucci and other senators, and G4, signed by Senator Marcucci and other senators, whose texts are distributed. I would like to ask the presenters whether they intend to explain them.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u139	Yes, Mr President, and I would like to explain all the agendas that have been presented. The G1 agenda takes up the arguments already brought to the attention of the House. I would point out that a clear violation of the right of defence occurred during the work of the Council. I am sorry to disagree with Mr Balboni, who said that an attorney must prove that he cannot be replaced. I would like to remind you of the relationship that binds an attorney to your client and vice versa: it is a purely trustworthy relationship. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If I appoint lawyer Mario Rossi, lawyer Mario Rossi cannot decide to be replaced by lawyer Paolo Bianchi, because it is Mario Rossi who must ensure technical defense, with his knowledge and on the basis of that relationship of trust that binds the client to the professional. On the basis of those arguments, it is the appointed lawyer who must appear before the court. It is useless for him to refer the judgment of the Court of Cassation to joined sections of 7 July, which has already been widely recalled earlier. Since the legitimate impediments are known, in the presence of a legitimate impediment, the court must order the postponement. In court, this is one of the arguments that often base the grounds for appeal, where the court does not recognise the existence of a legitimate impediment. Of course, however, it is not in question, and I have never seen in question, the fact that an attorney presents a medical certificate and that one is not considered. In this sense, therefore, it was asked on the G1 agenda that the matter be brought back to the Junta for a better assessment. The G2 agenda closes by asking for the recount and revision of the cards. I appreciated the intervention of Senator Romeo but he failed to say, and in this sense it is obviously not acceptable, that the difference is absolutely ridiculous, in the face of the irregularities that have been found in the examination of the ballots and it would be necessary to repeat the count, just in the face of those irregularities. Overall, the agendas are directed to the recount of the ballots, of all or at least to sample, and in any case to return to the Junta, in order to better evaluate the requests that had been submitted by the Senator Patriarch. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u142	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, a few words at the end of this difficult day. I would like to thank my colleagues who have highlighted the great personal, human, parliamentary and professional qualities of my colleague Patriarch. [[The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u143	The President agrees with the appreciation given by the Assembly to Senator Patriarch.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u144	Mr Marcucci (PD). Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to all my colleagues for this applause which I do not consider symbolic, but recognition of an activity carried out. Some things, however, in my opinion, could have been different, and I also address the President of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. We care very much about the rules of democracy and we would never have allowed ourselves to question an electoral result if we had considered it to be pronounced and definitive. It is clear that the appropriate activity of the Junta, carried out in recent months, to check and verify the blank and null cards has reversed the result. It is also clear that in those polling stations there was at least an interpretative doubt about voting activities, because otherwise there would not be a sufficient number, in the end, of cancelled ballots and then, after the audit of the Assigned Council. And so, Mr President, we have also considered it appropriate, in terms of truth and respect for democracy, which must be on time, to proceed first with the counting of all the ballots. Correctly, it was pointed out that this possible count would lead to very long running times and have been reported earlier. So we realized that there was a variable related to the time we had to respect and so we asked and had a different approach. We asked for the verification to be done by sample. We had previously speculated on 10% of the cards; then, again, it was pointed out that it would take too many weeks anyway and therefore it had to be further reduced. The Democratic Party then, with a sense of responsibility and in the logic of respecting the electoral result, asked for a check on the votes allocated to 5% of the ballots: a few weeks of work in favour of truth, transparency, respect for people and voters. We've been denied it. Obviously, we were denied because there were different political needs, on which I do not want to be a mayor because mine does not want to be a polemic intervention but a heartfelt appeal, which led to speed up all this, to link the story that concerns Senator Patriarch to other events with a very different political and constitutional value, of which we have spoken. But there was a mechanism - it can happen in politics and in parliamentary classrooms - that connected these different situations and prevented the Democratic Party Group, the entire Assembly and the Patriarchal Senator from actually knowing the reality of the electoral outcome in that college. He stopped it. We are bitter about this and we cannot understand why a few weeks would radically change the attitude of this House. I would like to refer to everyone because in addition to this, there has been another obvious gesture that I call annoying; I would like to use other terms but I repeat that I do not want to make controversy and you all know that I often do not avoid the controversy. Senator Patriarch had joined the first hypothesis of public date, with the presence of his lawyer. Then that date, at the last moment, for clear and indisputable regulatory reasons, was changed. He has therefore shown, with his willingness on the first date, that he does not want to exploit an event that was simply the exercise of a right. We wanted to deny a right, because on the second date, the modified one, there was the unwillingness of the lawyer who had to defend the prerogatives of Senator Patriarch. An attitude frankly, sincerely, humanly, as a whole, unbearable, difficult to digest. We shall proceed to the vote with the secret vote. My appeal is, in respect of democracy, to seek the truth of numbers and the real electoral outcome, in respect of Senator Patriarch, to make an analysis of conscience when we vote. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u147	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group's report approved by the Junta. We have followed the work, the rapporteur, Mr Paroli, has done an in-depth work together with his colleagues, meeting with loyal cooperation from all sides. I take account of everyone's cooperation, including colleagues in the Democratic Party who do not see a positive outcome to my fellow Patriarch, to whom we confirm the esteem, of course, because this is obviously not a vote that judges whether one person is better than another, but it is about the outcome of the votes on which investigations have been made and all the procedures that have been outlined by the rapporteur have been carried out. Moreover, the applause to my fellow Patriarch was unanimous and it is very rare to have an entire Chamber applauding a colleague. Having said that, we support what we have consistently supported in the Junta, namely the correctness of the work and therefore the correctness of the outcome given by the Junta itself and we will vote in favour of the decision taken.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u150	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, on the occasion of this explanation of vote on the Junta's report on the contested election in the Emilia-Romagna Region, I think it is important to make a brief comment on the importance of the role played by the Junta in the elections of which I am a member, which has been the subject of some criticism in recent minutes. The fundamental role of this body is recognised by the Constitution in Article 66 in which it is stated that each of the two Chambers judges the titles of admission of its members. This provision is not accidental, in fact it crystallizes its importance, since it shows how clear it was, in the constituent Assembly, the will to recognize this prerogative to Parliament, precisely to ensure that it was the sovereign people, of whom Parliament constitutes the direct emanation, to judge the legitimacy of the subjects called upon to represent it. And as a component in the Junta of the 5 Star Movement, which has always set itself as the primary objective precisely the protection of democracy, respect for the will of the Italian people and the emergence of this will whenever possible, I felt the total sharing of these values and the duty to play my role as I did, with responsibility, thirdness and extreme rigour. I therefore reject the criticisms I have heard completely. I can confirm that, having been a member, as the only representative of the 5 Star Movement, of the Committee within the Junta which has materially dealt with the revision of almost 8,000 ballots, that all the work of investigating the ballots has been focused on the principle of favor votes in order to safeguard the recognition of the validity of the vote contained in the ballot, whenever it is possible to infer the actual will of the elector. On this we would deserve a recognition: we have declared null only the votes in which there were unequivocal signs of recognition outside the requirements of expression of the vote itself. These arguments are generally supported by territorial administrative jurisprudence and largely by the jurisprudence of the Council of State. Having said that, I shall briefly recapture the question that has been submitted to the election committee. Following the elections, held on 4 March last year, the regional electoral office of Emilia-Romagna proclaimed elected Senator Edward Patriarch, who had obtained, as we know, 85,542 votes in the one-year college of Modena, while the first of the unelected, who turned out to be Stefano Corti, had obtained 38 fewer votes. Through the election of the Senator Patriarch, the candidate Stefano Corti correctly lodged a complaint, complaining that a number of votes were not awarded, because it was in his right to do so. A number of irregularities, in his view, would have occurred in the course of the ballots and it was assumed that a number of ballots had been cancelled due to a uncertain interpretation of the signs of preference reported by the voters. In view of this alleged irregularity, the applicant requested the revision of all the ballots declared null in the college of election, as well as the revision of the ballots declared null at the end of the verification of the contested ballots, carried out at the regional electoral office. In conclusion, I can certainly give my witness to the Committee's proper conduct of its activities. Without fear of being denied, I can say that the conclusion we have reached, the result of the complex work of inquiry carried out in the Committee during these long months, dedicating all the attention and the right time of reflection necessary to each individual expression of vote, has resulted in a numerical result in itself clear, objective and therefore not indisputable, unless one has a dilatory objective which I do not even want to think about. At the end of this speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my satisfaction at having been a member of the Committee, which has done its work with seriousness and thirdness. I can only reiterate here again the full legitimacy of the decision taken by the election committee. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group to cancel the election of Senator Patriarch. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u151	I would remind the House that the agenda will be put to the vote by secret ballot. Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator Cucca and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the agenda G3, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of the G4 agenda, tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The conclusions of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, in the sense of declaring the annulment of the election of Senator Edward Patriarch in the Emilia-Romagna Region, are therefore deemed to be approved. In order to enable the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to carry out investigations into the identification of the successor candidate, the Junta is hereby authorised to convene. We suspend the session for as long as it takes for the Junta. (The sitting was suspended at 8.57 p.m. and resumed at 21.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u152	I inform you that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has announced that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533 of 20 December 1993, the allocation of a seat following the approval of the report on the contested election of Senator Patriarch, has found, in today's sitting, that the candidate to whom the seat is assigned is Stefano Corti. I acknowledge the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity of this communication and I proclaim Senator Stefano Corti. I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation. We welcome the senator. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u153	The next item is the debate on document III, No 1. The Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly the annulment of the election of Senator Matteo Salvini in the Calabria Region and for the effect his proclamation in the Lazio Region and consequently the annulment of the election of Senator Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu proclaimed in the Lazio Region, as well as the proclamation to senator of Fulvia Michela Caligiuri in the Calabria Region. The report has been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Balboni, whether he intends to intervene to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report is filed, so I think I am doing something useful and pleasing to this House by referring to my written report. I would just like to briefly explain the conclusions reached by the Junta following the work of the Committee, which was appointed by the Junta itself and which I had the honour of coordinating, which revised 2,416 ballot tables. It was a very demanding job, which involved a commitment of many hours for many sessions; however, at the end of this work, the Committee unanimously revised the award of the votes to Forza Italia, to Fratelli d'Italia and to the League on the basis of which, in the end, Forza Italia was found to have obtained in the entire Region 183,795 votes, Brothers of Italy 33,255, the League 49,863, We with Italy 12,937. Well, on the basis of these votes, the final result in the allocation of seats has changed in the sense that the seat that was originally assigned to the League is lacking, missing the number of votes necessary, while Forza Italia passes from one seat to two seats. Consequently, the Junta decided to cancel the election of Senator Matteo Salvini in Calabria, to whom the seat had been attributed; being, Senator Matteo Salvini, candidate in several districts, as you know, the law provides that the senator is elected in the circuit where the list results in the lowest percentage of votes. With less of the League seat in Calabria, Senator Matteo Salvini must therefore be proclaimed elected in Lazio, where the last of the elected, Senator Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu, loses the seat as it is attributed to Senator Matteo Salvini. All this to allow to proclaim the election as senator of Fulvia Michela Caligiuri in Calabria, because in Calabria the second seat, as just said, is up to Forza Italia in the person of Senator Caligiuri. These are the conclusions reached by the Junta and this is what, as rapporteur, I would ask you to take a decision on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u155	I would remind my colleagues that, pursuant to Rule 135-b (2) of the Rules of Procedure, until the closing of the debate, at least twenty senators may make proposals which differ from the conclusions of the Council by submitting reasoned agendas. In the absence of such proposals, the Assembly will certainly not vote on the conclusions of the Junta. There are no members to speak in debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u158	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the whole Group, I am pleased and obliged to thank Senator Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu for her work. Lawyer, very prepared, dedicated to work; even if the time was little, we had the opportunity to appreciate its skills, preparation and perseverance. There will be no shortage of opportunities to exploit his great abilities. Thank you, dear colleague, maiora. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u159	The Presidency agrees. Since no proposals have been submitted that differ from the conclusions of the Junta, no vote will be taken, no doubt the conclusions of the Junta will be approved, in the sense of declaring the annulment of the election of Senator Matteo Salvini in the Calabria Region and for the effect his proclamation in the Lazio Region and consequently the annulment of the election of Senator Kristalia Rachele Papaevangeliu, proclaimed in the Lazio Region, and proposing the proclamation to senator of Fulvia Michela Caliguri in the Calabria Region. I therefore proclaim the election of Senator Salvini in the Lazio Region and Senator Caligiuri in the Calabria Region. From this moment on, the deadline of twenty days for the submission of any complaints against the new proclamations is 20 days.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u162	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, in this sitting I was offended by Senators Cucca and Balboni, who argued that, with intent, as rapporteur for the allocation of the seat in the case of Sicily, I would deliberately waste time waiting for the entry of a Senator of Movimento 5 Stars to have the majority. The gravity of this statement is inherent in its falsehood. First of all, Senator Balboni said that the report would already identify the senator to whom the seat would be assigned; this is not true. Just read the report of Senator Urraro: there was no trace of the indication of the Umbria Region or of the candidate senator in Umbria who should have taken the seat. As for wasting time waiting for Senator Giarrusso to enter, just see the number of voters. The vote in Junta saw 11 senators in favour of my opinion and 9 against, so the presence of Senator Giarrusso was completely irrelevant. I would add that the order of business in the Junta is, of course, guaranteed by the President, who voted against us, and was therefore certainly not in favour of wasting our time. I simply did my duty by checking and verifying the accuracy of the calculations to make sure that the proclaimed senator was the correct one. I therefore believe that I have the right to apology or at least that this reply should be made. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u163	Thank you, Senator Crucioli. She was given the opportunity to make her reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u164	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-31-LEG18-Senato-sed-140.ana.u165	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, August 1, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21.19 a.m.
