ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 12 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Gentlemen senators, as is sadly known, last Saturday, at the age of ninety-six, he died in his home in Rome, Franco Zeffirelli, a brilliant figure of our artistic, lyrical, theatrical and cinematic landscape. During his long career, Franco Zeffirelli gave us incredible emotions: his works made us cry, reflect and dream, distinguishing themselves for their uncommon ability to reach the heart of the viewer, with style, elegance and originality. His language was that of art; his language was that of beauty. His sensitivity, his creative inspiration, his tireless passion have made him a known and loved giant all over the world. That same genuine, sincere and profound passion that also characterized his political commitment as Senator of the Republic in the XII and XIII legislatures. I remember, in fact, how in that capacity Franco Zeffirelli always fought with strength and conviction to support a greater attention to our cultural heritage and to ask for concrete measures, aimed at enhancing and protecting all the sites of the great Italian musical culture. Only a few weeks ago he had returned to this House to receive the tribute given to him by the Senate as a universally recognized Italian excellence. It was a moment of great emotion for all, sealed by a long and endless spontaneous applause; a beating of deafening hands, which celebrated with affection the human path, the professional path. The emptiness that leaves his disappearance is filled by the richness of the emotions that he has given us. His memory will live in the works and in what they represent and will continue to represent. I invite you to observe one minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u7	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to ask you a few moments, because I believe that it is right of the Forza Italia Group to join with your memory our words. As you recalled, in the XII and XIII legislature Franco Zeffirelli took to the field, collecting the appeal of Silvio Berlusconi when he founded Forza Italia; he was candidate for the Senate and for two legislatures he was part of our Group, breaking also a wall of conformism that many times, in some worlds, prevailed and giving the possibility to a center right that was born to bring to the Senate of the Republic one of the Italian excellences. We do not need to remember the things you yourself have mentioned; indeed, we want to thank you because, almost warning the inexorable onset of time and illness, you wanted to promote, just recently, as you mentioned earlier, a moment of homage and recognition to a great Italian: Florence, art, beauty, culture and even the works he wanted to do. Days ago, remembering him, Pupi Avati said that in his name he wanted to make a film dedicated to Dante Alighieri, since Zeffirelli could not make that film about Hell that he wanted to complete. Zeffirelli not only did what he did in the world of culture, theatre, cinema, art in the broad sense, but also his participation in democratic life and institutions in the Senate is a convinced chapter of his life. I would also like to remind you that on a day of bitterness for our political side and for Silvio Berlusconi, one day of a negative judicial affair, already old and sick, was there next to Berlusconi, to demonstrate a human closeness that was also recently remembered by President Berlusconi and that for us is added to the memory of a great man of culture and knowledge, but also of a person who shared with many of us a political journey. This has been a great honour for all of us, and I believe that it was a great honour for the Senate, which paid tribute to it, to have had a great Italian in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u10	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, even the Movimento 5 Stars joins Franco Zeffirelli as an artist, because his work will remain eternal and inherited to future generations. He was a stage designer, screenwriter and director, filmmaker and theater. In particular, he distinguished himself for his deep settings and capable of grasping the meaning and the pure essence of the works of which he was director and of which he cared for the settings. In an interview, Franco Zeffirelli referred to opera with a beautiful metaphor, saying: I have always thought that the work is a planet where the museums work together, beat hands and celebrate all the arts. We want to remember him in this way, as a great lover of opera and a great director, who, like all the great artists capable of reaching high peaks, had in his career as an artist also moments when critics did not recognize his genius and was strongly criticized: it is something that he himself complained about. So we want to remember him with a phrase of his, of good wishes for us and for all generations, a phrase that is always valid and that reminds us that "The world has always been saved by those who looked forward". [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u13	BITI (PD). Mr President, it is a great honour and emotion for me, Florentine, to remember today, on the day of the funeral, the disappearance of the great master Zeffirelli. Mr President, I would like to thank you personally and also on behalf of the city, for being in Palazzo Vecchio yesterday morning, in the Salone dei Cinquecento, to honour the body of Master Zeffirelli. Our city was pleased that the second office of the State came to pay homage to the master. Ours is a city that loved and hated Master Zeffirelli: Florence is like this and the master fully represented the characteristic of the Florentines, because he was certainly a particular character, who knew how to hate and love, who aroused hatred and love in others, as the great Florentines have always done over the centuries and as they continue to do today. Our city has had the honour of being represented in the world by a great artist and a great man of culture, who has spaced in all areas of culture, from theatre to cinema, without forgetting the wonderful sketches for all the opera works that the master has designed. I invite all my colleagues, when and if you want to go from Florence, to stop at the Franco Zeffirelli Foundation, opened in the San Firenze Complex a few years ago, within which are contained the beautiful sketches for the works and scenery of the films, which the master had the goodness to leave to our city. It is a precious and wonderful archive, which testifies to the love of this great artist for his city, even if then, over the years, he lived very much in this city and sat also among the benches of this House, which rightly remembers it today. In Florence they were days of sadness, certainly, because when we leave a Florentine so important there is always this feeling, but also of gratitude, amazement and wonder for everything that master Zeffirelli has left not only in Florence, our wonderful city, but in the world of culture. In fact, he was so loved abroad, perhaps even more abroad: all the wonderful artists of the past who had the opportunity, the luck and the honor of working with him certainly testified that it was the whole world of culture, cinema, art and opera that had appreciated and loved master Franco Zeffirelli. On behalf of the whole city of Florence I thank all those who in these hours have paid tribute to the teacher and to those who have not done so and said of the rubbish and the stupidities (sorry if I use this term) even on social media, I mean that I believe the teacher has had a great laugh, because he was definitely a man of spirit, that perhaps many at this moment are missing. Thank you all and thank Master Zeffirelli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u16	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of Liberi and Uguali and of the whole Mixed Group wish to pay tribute to the memory of a great man of culture, as was Zeffirelli; a man of culture all round for the passion he poured out not only as a film director. I believe that each of us has even approached and approached the lyrics by watching many of his films; significant was the shooting of the 2006 opera "Aida" as I think his Shakespeare reinterpretation was very important, for example with the movie "La bisbetica domata" (The Abbey Tomata). He was a man of culture all around, as has been said, that obviously like the men of his time, of that generation, he had criticism, clashes, was appreciated or not. Certainly, however, its fundamental characteristic was to give honor to our country and to culture. I would also like to recall his passion for his cities: when he was young for Florence and then, later, with the documentary with which he wanted to pay tribute to the city of Rome, where he lived for a long time. As with all the great who leave, it remains the regret to understand how much of what it has produced in its long life and in its great artistic production can be reworked and remain in the present world. This tribute, however, reminds us that perhaps more and more we should invest in the most beautiful thing that our country has and that makes it famous all over the world: the cult of beauty, its culture, music, lyrics. Mr President, I believe that perhaps we should have the ability to do this, not only when we pay tribute to and remember the great ones, but at important decision-making times, to make a great investment in culture, because that is what will give our country a great future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u19	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group also wishes to pay tribute to a great Italian, thanks to whom our nation has become even more famous in the world; a man of culture who has passed through many generations and who has given us great emotions and also great reflections. I remember that on June 21 at the Arena of Verona will be staged "La Traviata" and we will be able to see its new layout, because Zeffirelli had a watchword in his life, in all the expressions of culture and art, and it was the word "innovation." He has always tried to innovate, to be a man of his own time, never forgetting those values that have inspired his entire career as a man of culture. I believe that our nation has had a great deal from Franco Zeffirelli and I think that reminding us today in this House should remind us how important culture is to us, but above all to the new generations. Too often we have heard that culture does not exist and that culture does not eat. I believe, however, that precisely because of the characteristic of our nation - and Zeffirelli did it very well - culture should be straightforward and see all of us more engaged. We are therefore happy to pay him this tribute, which will not be the last, because Italy and we Italians will never forget a man as big as Zeffirelli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u22	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Lega Nord Group also supports the emotional memory of a great master who leaves us an immense legacy. When production is so large and widespread and the level so high, memory becomes eternal. "Romeo and Juliet" is a very poetic and sentimental film, perfectly in line with the work. What better expression of Shakespeare's work is there of the realization of Franco Zeffirelli? It is truly something that will go beyond the centuries. I would like to remind Franco Zeffirelli here also for a part of his life that has dedicated to a special area of our country: Positano and the Amalfi coast, a pearl, where he has been many years and has been able to attract many artists. It is unforgettable to have participated in some of his concerts and in the organization of special events, which, precisely because held in a natural theatre so unique and magnificent, have generated in me a love for beauty in absolute and for the culture that turns into emotions that are never forgotten anymore. It is something incredibly formative and, also thanks to him, the saying that beauty will save the world is even more true. I think that from his work, which will continue to be remembered, seen and handed down, the world will only benefit and that at this moment, in particular, there is a need for a great cultural message so immense and of such beauty. We also mourn the death of a great master, sure though that his work and his emotions will return to travel our veins and our blood and to move us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law 1315, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Castellone, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u24	Mr President, Chapter I of this measure introduces exceptional and time-limited measures to implement a special and extraordinary regime for the management of the Calabria Region. Article 1 defines the scope of Chapter I, which contains urgent provisions for the Calabria Region, aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the return plan, as well as the essential levels of assistance. Article 2 regulates an extraordinary review of the Directors-General of the bodies of the Regional Health Service, providing for the appointment of a Commissioner ad acta carrying out audits every six months, also with a view to ascertaining whether the actions put in place by each Director-General are consistent with the objectives of implementing the return plan. In the event of a negative assessment, the Commissioner ad acta may, on a reasoned basis, declare that he or she has ceased office immediately and terminate the contract. Article 3 regulates the measures to be taken in the event of negative evaluation by the Directors-General, allowing the appointment of special commissioners of the bodies of the Regional Health Service. It is planned to set up a special crisis unit to carry out extraordinary inspections at ASLs, hospital companies and university hospital companies in the Region. In particular, it is expected that, for the adoption of the company act, the Minister of Health, with his own decree, will establish a special crisis unit for the Region composed of managers of the Ministry of Health and a maximum of five experts in surgical, medical, anatomopathological and diagnostic services. The crisis unit shall transmit to the Extraordinary Commissioner and to the Commissioner at acta a report on the state of delivery of clinical services, with particular reference to the condition of services, technical and technological endowments and human resources, highlighting any deviations from the standards necessary to ensure the essential levels of assistance (LEA) and organisational interventions necessary for their restoration. Article 4 regulates the periodic verification by the Extraordinary Commissioner or the Director-General of the activity of the administrative and health directors and the procedures by which institutions should acquire expressions of interest for the assignment of the post. Article 5 extends to the health companies of the Calabria Region the discipline, already previewed for the local authorities, in the matter of financial failure. In particular, the Extraordinary Commissioner, also using Agenas and the Finance Guard, carries out a general audit on the management of the institution to which he is responsible. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Where there are serious and repeated irregularities in the management of budgets, i.e. a manifest and repeated inability to manage, the Special Commissioner proposes to the Commissioner ad acta to arrange for the extraordinary management of the institution, with a separate budget from that of ordinary management and with reference to all revenue and obligations assumed until 31 December 2018. Extraordinary management shall be provided by an Extraordinary Commissioner appointed by the Commissioner ad acta, in agreement with the MEF and whose remuneration shall be defined by a subsequent decree. Article 6 deals with contracts, services and supplies for the institutions of the Calabria Region's health service, requiring the centralized purchasing procedures of the Council or of the other regional purchasing power stations to be used for assignments above the Community threshold. As far as Community-wide assignments are concerned, Commissioner Adacta will have to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with ANAC in the context of the so-called collaborative supervision already provided for by the current Code of Public Contracts. The Commissioner ad acta will also have to draw up an extraordinary three-year plan of sanitary construction and technological adaptation of the emergency network, the hospital network and the territorial network of the Region, including by modifying the measures already planned. Article 7, in reference to the extraordinary measures for the management of undertakings carrying out health activities on behalf of the regional health service, in the context of the prevention of corruption, gives the extraordinary Commissioner, after hearing the President of DAC, the opportunity to propose to the prefect the extraordinary and temporary management of the abovementioned undertakings. Article 8 regulates technical and operational support to the Commissioner ad acta and to the extraordinary Commissioners by Agenas. Article 9 introduces additional provisions on cooperation and support to Commissioners, providing that in the performance of their duties the Commissioner ad acta, the extraordinary commissioners and the extraordinary commissioners of liquidation may avail themselves of the corps of the Guardia di Finanza. Article 10 introduces provisions for coordination between the special scheme introduced by the measure under consideration and the exceptional scheme for the dissolution of health establishments for mafia infiltrations. Chapter II sets out urgent measures on specific health issues on which action was deemed necessary in order to ensure continuity in the provision of health benefits included in the essential levels of care. Article 11 laying down provisions on staff and appointment of the bodies of the National Health Service provides that, as from 2019, expenditure on staff of the bodies of the National Health Service of the Regions may not exceed the value of expenditure incurred in 2018. These values are increased annually at regional level by an amount equal to 5% of the increase in the regional health fund compared to the previous year. The rule providing for the automatic blocking of the turnover of the staff of the regional health service shall be deleted for cases where the measures necessary for the correction of the management deficit are not taken. The second part of the article concerns the health management of the National Health Service and the experimental zooprofilactic institutes. As part of the national list of directors-general, it is envisaged to set up a special section dedicated to persons eligible for the appointment of Director-General at the experimental zooprofilactic institutes with the list of a number of requirements. The rules on the criteria for the appointment of directors-general of local and hospital health establishments and other bodies or companies of the regional health service are amended. It is expected, in the more part of a revision of the above criteria, that for a period of 18 months after the entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree the list of candidates will be proposed by the competent committee according to a ranking of merit. Article 12 deals with the health training of general medical doctors. In particular, it extends the entry into force of the new medical examination to July 2021, in order to allow universities to better organise state examinations for the exercise of the profession of doctor-surgeon. It provides that doctors in specialized training, as well as veterinary doctors enrolled in the last year and, if it lasts five years, in the penultimate year of the course, are admitted to competitive procedures for access to the management of the health role. In any event, recruitment for an indefinite period is subject to the qualification of specialization. It allows until 31 December 2021 to graduates in medicine and surgery qualified for professional exercise and already results suitable for admission to the three-year course of specific training in general medicine who have already gained an experience with conventional assignments for at least twenty-four months even non-continuous in the last ten years to access, through a classified ranking, to the specific training course in general medicine without a scholarship. It gives the possibility to provide, without further additional burdens, for an increase in the ceiling of the cared for by every general medical practitioner within the framework of multi-professional organizational forms. Article 13 deals with the shortage of medicinal products and the share of premiums in the National Health Fund. Chapter III sets out the transitional and final financial provisions. Article 15 lays down the final provisions and provides that the provisions referred to in the Chapter I shall apply for eighteen months after the entry into force of this Decree-Law. Article 15-a specifies that the provisions apply to Special Statute Regions and Autonomous Provinces, compatible with their respective Statutes and their implementing rules. Article 16 provides for the entry into force of this Decree-Law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The minority rapporteur, Senator Boldrini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u25	Mr President, from the report by my colleague, Senator Castellone, we have heard of a decree-law dealing with all the health problems in the Calabria Region with regard to the training and recruitment of staff. So far it seems to be all right, of course, but we must focus our attention on some aspects that emerged both in the House and in the Senate, during the examination of the decree-law. First of all, we, as a minority, want to draw attention to the fact that we have presented a preliminary question of unconstitutionality because we put together two issues that are not homogeneous: the health of the citizens of Calabria, which we hold very much and we agree that it is necessary to intervene in this matter, but also Chapter II, which could even be a second decree-law. So, be careful putting together uneven topics. This is our first note. Then, with regard to the so-called Calabria decree, there is a sort of provisionality, because it is expected to tidy up in eighteen months everything that had not been put together in so many years. Very good because we have to try, but it seems to us that this is being done with a very inquisitive attitude: the Commissioner ad acta, the extraordinary Commissioner, the Committee on Crisis, a plethora of people who are going to examine the return plans, because we are talking about a return plan. In fact, only thanks to the amendments tabled to the House in the Commission by our colleagues have we heard about monitoring the LEAs, which are the most important thing to take into account when it comes to the economic aspects of the services in question. This aspect has never been taken into account. We have tabled amendments which, of course, as I said in the Commission too, have all been rejected. We will continue to discuss them in this House too, because we believe that on certain points and on certain issues it is necessary to get into the substance of the issues, which, on the other hand, we have not been able to do because, I repeat, the amendments have all been rejected. Then we didn't hear about reorganization as well as recruiting staff. All the people in service in the health and territorial companies of Calabria have been very busy, so on this point, surely there is our support for them, but it is necessary to add an extra fund for these people. We are trying to find additional funding for bargaining, although we know that this proposal will fail. It will therefore create a problem of reorganization of the services, without taking into account that several parties try to recover staff in quiescence. In the meantime, the figure is 100, and therefore to retire people who are thirty-eight years old and who want to get out of the world of work. Yesterday an article was published according to which certain services will be emptied. In addition, we also recover the Commissioners in quiescence and we cannot understand why. There is a double logic that leaves us stunned. No less important is the fact that provision is made for the derogation of the rules laid down in the previous legislature, such as, for example, making a list to identify directors-general and health directors, so that policy does not have to intervene in this field. The law has been made, the amendments have been tabled; the rules and lists provided for are there. Now it seems impossible that from those lists no one can be identified, so it is necessary to derogate by providing roses of candidates diversified on merit, without establishing criteria valid also for all the other Regions. In this provision there are important dichotomies, in my opinion, that really jump to the eye. Of course, we, as a minority, have highlighted them all. Another key issue is medical training. It is true that we have an important shortage of doctors at this time, and I am referring to general medicine doctors, as well as doctors who are about to specialize and who do not have a place of work, but it is also true that we cannot squirm and mess as has been done in this decree-law, intervening in such an inappropriate way. We are not the only ones who think so: they have intervened on this fact, with motions, so not only verbally, the CRUI, the MIUR and of course all the other trade union acronyms. This is because it would have been more useful to have an ad hoc measure, as we have always hoped, in order to be able to plan and organize a working table with the presence of the MEF. In fact, let us remember that it is often and willingly the MEF that sets the conditions for being able to activate new scholarships and have more funds in order to be able to hire more doctors. In order not to intervene then on the issue of unconstitutionality, yes, to hire and become medical leaders who have not yet completed the specialization course; to the face of those who have already specialized, who do not have a job, those who are still dreaming of a specialization course can even aspire to have an indefinite job. It is an incredible inequality that we pay attention to. This is an important point, as was said in the Commission today, especially for those doctors who had to run abroad to get a job. This is also an incongruous aspect; instead, we could call on the specialists we need. He didn't do it. This applies no less to doctors of general medicine; here too we have a strong deficiency. We have tabled a number of amendments to ensure that there are planning units with regard to so-called group medicine, with the presence of various specific figures. Instead, it is thought that a person who has not yet completed his or her course of study and has not yet acquired the necessary practice in the relationship between the patient and the doctor, which is an important aspect, will be given extra responsibility. This, also from the point of view of the law on professional responsibility, is another question mark on which we must pay attention. So, again, we think that this is a bit of a risk. I heard then that the Minister had a meeting with the CRUI and the CUN, in which it was said that there seems to be an agreement with Minister Bussetti and a circular. However, a circular does not have the same effects as a law and so, to tell the truth, knowing also the university field of education, I am a little concerned. In fact, if training is already uneven, because universities have their full autonomy and nobody removes it, adding further discrepancies from the point of view of the current regulatory framework, with the measure to our examination we are going to revolutionize everything until 2021; in this way nothing will be understood. Those who were previously taking a training course are now facing a path that they no longer know if it is the right one. We therefore reiterate that there are significant discrepancies, inconsistencies and inequalities with what is written in the measure under consideration. For these reasons we had tabled amendments which could in some way correct errors. Let us see what the House and the Members who will vote on the amendments will say. I am sorry that the government has remained silent and deaf to all our indications aimed at correcting errors. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u26	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u27	Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, representatives of the Government, Article 12 of the decree-law we are debating today addresses the serious problem of the shortage of specialist medical personnel that is bringing the hospital health of our country to its knees. The training of specialists in numbers not corresponding to the real needs of the health system reduces both the quantity and the quality of the services, impairs the smooth continuity of care and compromises the effectiveness of an essential service that must be guaranteed universally and efficiently. The current emergency situation has been caused by a short-sighted policy, which has not been able to plan and look at the future of its children. In fact, as reported also by the National Federation of Medical Surgeons and Dentistors, today there is not a real shortage of graduates in medicine and surgery, but an insufficient number of graduates who can acquire the title of specialization. This is the so-called training funnel that is created for the limited access to training and specialization courses, caused by the insufficient programming of a number of scholarships for the specialization, considerably less than the number of specialists needed and required by the health facilities. It is estimated that at present there are about 8,000 doctors who do not have access to specialist training. A large number of them are seeking employment - this is the so-called gray shirt phenomenon - and many of them emigrate in search of a better destination where to put on the field the knowledge acquired: we must, therefore, focus on young people, on the inclusion of them in the world of work, as well as on a training course adapted to the present circumstances. The figure is even more alarming considering that by 2025, i.e. in six years, 52,000 doctors will be retired from the National Health Service. In some regions various solutions have been adopted to compensate for the shortage of specialists, such as the use of doctors already retired, or military doctors, or, last but not least, doctors provided by other regions. In regions such as Campania and Puglia, it has been estimated that in the coming years there will be a need for no less than 1,400 specialists in emergency medicine only to compensate for the planned retirement expenses. For these reasons, as already happens in other countries of the European Union, the decree-law currently under discussion provides for the possibility of admission of surgeons and veterinary doctors in specialized training enrolled in the last year of the related course to the competitive procedures for access to the management of the health role in the specific discipline banned, which will be inserted, to the positive outcome of the same procedures, in a separate ranking. Those who will be usefully placed in this ranking can be hired on a fixed and part-time basis. The relevant employment contract may not be longer than the remaining duration of the specialized training course and may be extended only once and for no more than 12 months. Doctors recruited will be treated with managerial status and economic treatment proportionate to the performance and welfare activities, with the application of the corresponding national collective agreement. For the duration of the employment contract, residents will carry out part-time training, the modalities of which will be defined by specific agreements between regions and universities. From the date on which the qualification is obtained, those who will be recruited in the manner mentioned above will be permanently placed within the roles of the National Health Service's management. It should be noted that such recruitment will be subject to the verification of the following conditions: adequate planning of staff requirements; lack of internal human resources; absence of valid regional rankings; refusal of recruitment by the subjects placed in the rankings. From one part of the academic world, strong criticisms have been advanced against this regulatory provision, acceptable in maximum respect, but not acceptable since the principles of specialized training are not subverted; indeed, this mode of postgraduate training will allow the specialists, on a voluntary basis, a professional path that current resources and availability of university clinics cannot always guarantee, even for the lack of correspondence to the accreditation standards by some specialization structures. Moreover, doubts can be overcome by the fact that there is no difference in treatment between residents and specialists, considering that the two professional qualifications will be placed in two distinct rankings and that that of residents will be activated only after the exhaustion of the first. For the above reasons we believe that the entire regulatory system of the Calabria decree will allow to give a solution to the various problems concerning the staff of the National Health Service, innovative the matter of access of doctors to general medicine and of the specialists to the managerial roles, through measures, emerging and contingent, aimed to face the serious deficiencies, contesting the needs of regular and effective functioning of our health system with those of training and stabilization of the medical staff. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u28	She's enlisted to speak Senator Stable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u29	Mr President, the Calabria Decree-Law consists essentially of two parts. The first is intended to address the health emergency of the Calabria Region, even if, in our opinion, it completely fails the objective and does not contain suitable measures to return to the Calabrians the dignified health that they deserve: but this will certainly be illustrated more thoroughly by the colleagues who will follow. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the second part of the Decree-Law, which contains measures of a general nature to deal with the very serious inconveniences that currently put public health services in crisis, to the point of no longer guaranteeing those values of solidarity and universalism that are theirs. This second part, although incomplete and perhaps even poorly effective, in some respects goes in the right direction. I am referring first of all to the fact that it removes the blockage of recruitment and at least raises the ceiling of expenditure for health care personnel, thus giving a breath of oxygen to the crisis situations that are found a bit throughout Italy, especially in the South. In particular, then, it addresses the serious problem of the shortage of doctors, starting with those of general medicine, however, with measures that should certainly be reviewed because they are poorly meritorious in the formation of rankings. It also addresses the problem of the shortage of doctors working in the National Health Service, thus the issue of empty lanes and desert competitions. An intervention to deal with this emergency would be to allow senior residents to work in the public health service. This measure is urgent and necessary, because otherwise we would have empty lanes. I would like to remove some doubts and polemics that have arisen in this period, in the meantime because the residents would be hired only once all attempts to hire specialists failed. Then, with regard to the training of doctors and the quality of care, who like me has worked for decades as a hospital doctor knows very well that the new specialist, the new recruit is almost always a semi-finished person who must complete his training within the National Health Service, because the theoretical knowledge of the university, which prepares well the residents in this sense, must be integrated with the practical knowledge of the hospitaller. So surely, as already happens for specialists, even residents could work each according to the skills acquired until then. The second part of the Decree-Law also contains some important issues which we have tried to correct, at least in part, with the amending proposals which have not been accepted in the Commission. However, I hope that, in the face of these problems, the Government will commit itself to tackling the situation with subsequent measures. It is true that the spending ceiling for staff is high, but it is referred to 2018, the year when many regions have arrived as a result of repeated cuts in health care. Therefore, reference is made to a situation probably already of shortage and lack of staff and this could frustrate part of the measure. On the expenditure ceilings there is even a paradox that Regions like mine (Friuli-Venezia Giulia), which independently provide for the health budget, cannot raise the expenditure ceiling. Therefore, paradoxically, those who are not burdened with the state's health budget would be forced to maintain the current difficulty for their personal position. On the shortage of doctors, places in specialization schools - the problem of the training funnel - certainly have been increased and it is hoped that they will increase again. However, let us bear in mind that it is not enough: it is not enough to have an adequate number of specialists, but it is necessary that specialists choose to work in the public health service and that they opt also for disciplines characterized by greater discomfort and that more rarely young doctors choose, such as emergency-emergency medicine (who works in the emergency room). A first-time doctor receives about half the salary of colleagues in Western Europe and this does not encourage young people to work in the public health service. The contracts have been stopped for years and it is necessary to remove some rules that block the funds allocated to the salaries of doctors, so as to succeed in making the work of the public health service attractive by rewarding the merit and compensating the discomfort. If we fail to do all this, these measures will not help and we will not be surprised if our young doctors continue, as they are already doing, to choose to work in private medicine or to migrate abroad. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u30	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the Decree-Law on emergency measures for the health service of the Calabria Region and other urgent health measures, which we are going to convert into law today, is to restore respect for the essential levels of health care, as well as to ensure that the objectives of the plan of return from the deficits of the regional health service are achieved in accordance with the relevant operational programmes. All the proposed measures are defined as extraordinary regulatory measures, taken for a limited period of 18 months, with which we intend to accompany Calabrian health to normal administrative situations - and I stress this again: normal - because in Calabria, first and foremost in the health sector, there is no normality. In addition to the package of measures that fully commissary Calabrian health, the Decree-Law provides for many other rules of national interest for health, of which a large part concerns staff, from expenditure to training. Then there are rules for the appointment of the managers of ASL and hospitals, providing for a new ranking of merit and other measures on drugs. Before I spoke of normality, now of merit: concepts that in today's world know more and more extraordinary when they should be obvious. I could continue with data and numbers but I want to bring here the voice and thought of many Calabrians. Finally with this decree-law we hear about Calabria, but not to continue to dust or make it the last Region of Europe, as for forty years they have made men and politicians of center-right and - alas - also of center-left who have succeeded the government of the Region. An emblematic testimony of what I say is precisely the current state of health in my region, and all this for a series of deviances and indefinable acts put in place by unscrupulous men and politicians who have been operating for years in Calabria. Here I am honored to represent the hardworking and honest Calabria that raises my head and says enough. I represent Calabria for change, for the Government of change, which has finally brought legality into Calabrian health care. I believe that this decree-law is a real revolution, and from the first moment many have called it courageous. The decree-law that we are about to convert shows that the State is and must be there, and that it does not listen as a merchant to the desperate cry of so many sick and their families. It is a State that joins the Calabria Region (and the Regions in general) and exercises a shared competence to end an unprecedented disaster, generated by governments of center-right, first, and center-left, after. In Calabria, daily wards are closed in hospitals and there are serious delays in the construction of new ones. Among all, the Sibaritide, which should bring some relief to the Ionian-Cosentine area, stripped of all the health services that forced the Calabrians to an immigration for health and health purposes, while the Calabrian health care continues to rise to the honors of the chronicle for the scandals that hit it and became an ATM for the bad and the corrupt. The people who have been affected are, of course, the citizens who have seen hospitals and facilities closed because there are no doctors, nurses and money for the purchase of the simplest supplies. The decree-law on our examination has given confidence and hope to this massacred land of mine. I proudly belong to that Government of change which, with an act that will remain in history, decided to go down to Calabria with the whole Council of Ministers and showed by the facts that Calabria exists and must be protected. It has shown that finally the State is also present in Calabria. I call, then, indeed all the political forces present in the Senate to vote on this decree-law, which will give hope to many who suffer in Calabria for lack of health. The appointment of the commissioner ad acta, General Saverio Cotticelli, in December 2018 was the first step wanted by the Government of change to restore normality and so much competence in Calabria. I conclude by thanking Minister Grillo and the whole Government for the change on behalf of so many Calabrians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u32	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u33	Mr President, I believe that the general debate can usefully serve not only to address certain aspects of the matter, but also to reason on the principles underlying the measures we are debating in this House. Colleagues, often the decree-laws we examine try to address major, complicated and urgent problems in the need to be addressed and resolved. After that, let's see what kind of approach they're dealing with. In fact, I believe that there are different ways that distinguish us, that differentiate us. What distinguishes, for example, the action of a populist from the action of a reformist in the presence of a theme like this? I do not want to make a treaty, but I say that the populist intervenes as an empire; he must show instant determination and resolve: now enough with the past; now we all take care of it! This is the decree-law of the populist. The reformist, on the other hand, tries to deal with emergencies by acting, trying to act immediately, but with planning, identifying the aspects of the system that must be addressed, that upstream must be addressed in order to avoid that they generate distortions downstream, where the corrections prefigure the future model and at the same time takes care of the negative issues that are to be reabsorbed. This, very briefly, is the difference in the approach between the reformists and the populists. It is clear that this is a populist decree-law, because there is nothing of design compared to the future. When Minister Grillo came to the Commission to report on fiscal federalism he said he had met representatives of the Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna Regions and had not encountered any problems with regard to the health issue. Minister Grillo, you like to win easy. Face the problem of Italian health in the perspective of differentiated regionalism, instead, starting from the places where there are imbalances and tell us a bit 'as a new balance, what new dimension we can find to give homogeneity to the National Health Service in regional managements. Given that the problems to be dealt with in Calabria with regard to health are great, this measure has neither head nor tail: it does not give guarantees on any kind of positive outcome. In fact, failing the requirements I mentioned before, namely the design, the ability to prefigure a model for the future, offers no guarantees on any kind of positive outcome. It tackles emergencies with questionable choices, especially in the absence of funds that represent credible tools to make effective interventions. Without the funds, how does this matter straighten out? There are, it is true, other facts that have happened in the meantime. My colleague Boldrini quoted 100, but this is another populist intervention, in which there is no kind of planning, of which you could not even imagine the results, in which the impact of certain interventions we discover it living and is dramatic. Then there is the second part of the decree-law, which also intervenes in this case facing an emergency without any kind of vision, of drawing that puts into context not only the aspects related to the emergency of Calabria, but also everything that also exists in form, in size and in different intensity in the rest of the national territory. I have had to use this time in general debate because we often talk about the substance, but it seems that we are measuring ourselves here on amendments that try to change the comma or the period, to add a "also" instead of an "exclusively" "; instead here there are different visions, in the face of an approach that, in my opinion, would have been much more positive - and I insist because I am very attached to it - and much more decisive and incisive if the constitutional reform had passed, in the part linked to Title V. There was the solution to the upstream aspects of the system; there the constitutional premises were placed in order to be able to act at a central level compared to the disruptions that take place in the regions, for example regarding health. This has not happened. The decree-law under consideration is unconstitutional in various parts, both in the relationship between the State and the Regions as regards the first part, and in the second part, when we intervene on the general rules concerning the new rules of recruitment of medical staff. These are the aspects that we will be examining in the explanation of vote on the amendments. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u35	Mr President, I speak as a Calabrian citizen before I speak as a Member of Parliament. For the first time in the troubled history of regional health, the State intervenes directly in defence of the right to care, enshrined in our Constitution. Calabria has been subject to re-entry plans since 2009 and has been a non-stop commissioner since 2010. Since health matters entered the State-Region competition regime, following the reform of Title V of the Constitution, local policy has become a tense health policy, downgrading Calabrian citizens to the rank of C-series subjects, allowing a score on the essential levels of assistance (LEA) of just 136, out of a minimum of 160. The commissionary regime, until the current government has installed itself, has produced no results, also because the appointments of the directors-general of the provincial health companies (ASP) have always remained firmly in the hands of the governor of duty and with them the recruitment of the staff. So they kept open tanks of clientele votes, channeled towards the various patrons of local politics, who obviously have always used them to keep the status quo standing, while the best medical skills have had to migrate elsewhere. It is not uncommon that we Calabrians, when we go to treat ourselves in the big specialized centers outside the Region, we come across the country's specialist, escaped from a region whose political class is sworn enemy of merit, because on the merits there is freedom from the state of need and it is precisely the state of need that is indispensable to that corrupt and incapable political class, in order to remain firmly clinging to power with the instrument of favor. Yes, regional policy has always been the master, in the true sense of the word, of the life and death of the Calabrians and of the money devoted to their care, allowing the organized underworld to put its hands undisturbed on the flow of health-related goods and services. Just think of the debt contracted by the ASP of Reggio Calabria, amounting to at least 400 million euros, with budgets disappeared for as many as four years of activity, double and triple bills and obsolete instruments purchased and left in cellophane in hospital warehouses. While cardboard plasters are made and people die in the emergency room, the general leaders are confirmed by the governor on duty and systematically rewarded. The governor Oliverio, although he was even subject to a restriction of domicile, following an investigation by the judiciary that had seen him involved for abuse of office, intended until the last resort to make use of his prerogative to appoint directors general, refusing to coordinate with Commissioner Cotticelli, sent by the government. Hence the right reaction of Minister Grillo and the decision to finally pull the plug. In a hurry, after the appointment, Oliverio's directors-general had already prepared for the final round, in view of the upcoming regional elections, opening competitive procedures aimed at the positioning of new primary and other medical, nursing, paramedic and administrative staff, certain that, as usual, no one would dare put their sticks in the wheel. The practice of corruption and amoral familialism, now become a law in Calabria, was about to perfect for the umpteenth time its iter, but this time has arrived the halt of the Government of change: for the first time in almost twenty years of regional autonomy, a government has given a decisive stop to this consolidated system, in the unbelief of all these characters, who already mocked us, making streaks to those who admonished them, convinced that they would get away with it again this time, as had always happened with all the other Governments. The intervention of Commissioner Cotticelli, with whom the recruitment of apical figures has been banned, has provoked reactions of dismay and panic, such as: now who tells Oliverio? In almost twenty years of regional autonomy, health care in Calabria has been reset. To the disadvantage due to the compensation criteria of the Fund for unfavourable national health expenditure, because they do not take into account the numerous cases of comorbidity present in the Region, which affect health expenditure more than separate cases of morbidity, this very serious management, which has reduced public health benefits, has allowed the proliferation of practices such as intramoenia, conventions with private structures with attached contentious millionaires and finally gave rise to a gigantic health migration, for an amount of 320 million euros per year, to dozens of closed hospitals, to cut beds and to the highest tickets in Italy. However, those who cannot migrate, in Calabria, die of malasanity; therefore, systematic and recurrent controls on the activities of directors-general and extraordinary commissioners are well known; the possibility of replacing these figures very quickly by the extraordinary commissioner, as provided for in the decree-law; above all, the project of Movimento 5 Stars to permanently subtract the appointments of directors-general from politics. That this that we are inaugurating can really be a season of renewal for our Region and an opportunity to recover the gap that holds us in a limbo from which we have a desperate and urgent need to get out. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u36	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Government, this decree-law is a sort of bicephalus measure, in which one party has nothing to do with the other. The first step, that which concerns the Calabria Region, puts absolutely bare how in Italy there is already a differentiated regionalism. There is no need to invoke the measures on the autonomy of some regions in order to be able to touch with hand how Calabria is in a situation of objective, real, concrete and measurable discrimination. Allow me to say that the state of discomfort and suffering in Calabria is truly surprising for a Roman: in a city like Rome where the universities "La Sapienza", "Tor Vergata" and "Cattolica" are governed by Calabrians (and I am talking about structures of excellence in their organizational and managerial complexity), one wonders why in Calabria itself it should not be possible to organize and manage things correctly, leaving health in the hands of Calabrians; I wonder why it is necessary to move from Calabria to prove Calabrian excellence and instead it is not possible to express there the quality, competence and capacity from the scientific, organizational and managerial point of view. I refer to the fact that two rectors and one principal of the universities mentioned above are doctors. Evidently there must be something, a deep discomfort that crosses this Region and that does not allow talents to shine where they are, to really show what they are capable of. But the decree-law in question today does not help the Calabrians who remain in Calabria. It does not help them from the point of view of health and I want to give a very small confirmation of it by talking about some of the amendments that have been rejected and which in reality had as their sole objective to protect the health of Calabrian citizens as well, putting them in concrete conditions of access to the essential levels of assistance, thus making their right to operate. What happens is that the essential levels of assistance, the famous LEAs, are a right of all citizens, even of the Calabrians, but it is a pity that in Calabria they are rights not due: it is as if a subtle curse prevented people from enjoying what they are entitled to. However, the decree-law in question, so intensely desired, comes from a will - let me say - perverse control, to go and look for what does not work to sanction it and then move it in terms of responsibility from ordinary management to extraordinary. This is because the culture of suspicion, a sort of justiceism, means that all Calabrian health care is read in the key of corruption (a corruption of trials, structures, people) and therefore it is not really believed that there is a deep will to emerge and return to their fellow citizens what they are entitled to. But the second part of this decree-law is no less serious. It has already been said by colleagues and denounced by several of them what I call a real snatch, or - if you want - a rampant hand in the field of others. Under the name of the Calabria decree there are a whole series of provisions (the last articles) that characterize a situation of serious snatch to the responsibility of the universities in the processes of formation of those extraordinary figures represented by doctors, whether they are specialists in various branches, or doctors of general medicine. Neither one, nor the other, are well treated. Do you know what the worst offense these people have? A person is legitimately recognized as not competent, since he has not completed his specialization process, and he is given that responsibility which has been denied to colleagues who, only a year earlier, have specialized or obtained the title of general medical doctor. We had a hemorrhage, a fancy migration. They went abroad, to the most diverse universities (United States, England, but also developing countries), young Italian specialists brilliant, determined, courageous and with a strong sense of adventure and risk-taking ability. They left because they couldn't find a job in Italy. In our country they were told that, because of the turnover block, they could not be hired and, if they found work, it was below their competence. A young specialized in surgery for a few years has been doing the so-called guards, deprived of the opportunity to express their skills due to roles and functions that, although necessary, certainly do not require that level of study, sacrifice and competence that he has. We locked the door in the face of these people. Some have been underwhelmed, while others, perhaps more adventurous, have gone abroad. These people are told: we didn't want you, but don't worry, we joked. Now we give young people the opportunity to compete and be stabilized before they have finished their training course. They will be borne by the National Health System, but nothing is said about those scholarships that we have saved. In fact, if the young person still has to do 18 months of specialization and will be paid by the National Health System, where will these eighteen months of scholarship go? You don't even have the creative imagination of inventing new bags for them. We will face a great betrayal for patients. The patient will ask himself today: but the doctor who assists me has finished his specialty, hasn't he? To what extent is a credible doctor to whom I can rely? This will have helped to multiply the culture of suspicion. I shall conclude, Mr President, by thanking the Government, in the people of the representatives present in this House, for having accepted an agenda - I repeat, you have accepted it - which basically says: gentlemen, we want more scholarships for residents, we want to hire specialists first and in any case we want to build a culture for which, during the years of specialized training, students can really reach the highest possible level. Thank you - I repeat - for welcoming him. Now I hope you do something about it and it's not just a piece of paper. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u38	Senator Auddino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, today the decree-law before this House, in the process of conversion, is a highly awaited measure, which brings emergency measures for the health service of my region, my beloved Calabria. It is known to all that Calabrian health care is in disarray. On several occasions I had the opportunity to visit the hospitals near me - those of Locri and Polistena - and I realized personally how dramatic the situation in the two garrisons is. In addition to obsolete and often inadequate instrumentation, there is a significant shortage of staff (medical and nursing staff and OSS). In the departments you work in a state of very high psychophysical stress. Doctors, nurses and social workers are mortified in their professionalism and forced into massacred shifts. Moreover, the small number of staff does not allow this to give patients the right treatment. The hospital in Locri, moreover infamous during this period, is also affected by serious infrastructure deficiencies related to the stability of the structure, the state of maintenance and the operation of the lifts. It seems that the Calabria region, however, has made available, for the adjustment of both garrisons, as much as 15 million euros for more than ten years for one and about 10 million euros for the other. However, structural renovation and maintenance work has never been carried out. I wonder, and I ask you, what happened to them? We'll find out soon enough. Calabrian health care is characterised by very serious instrumental, structural and medical personnel failures. In the face of this, however, there has been a written expenditure of hundreds of millions of euros per year of public money. The health deficit of the Calabria Region amounts to 170 million euros, while the Score LEA stands at 136, well below the threshold of sufficiency, which is equal to 160. We have the highest deficit in Italy. Faced with what? Faced with the nation's lowest essential levels of care! It is clear that there is a serious inefficiency in the use of available economic resources, which automatically affects the adequacy and quality of the services offered to Calabrian citizens, in clear violation of Article 32 of the Constitution. In contempt for the fundamental rights of the Italian legal system, an entire ruling class that, with several regional councils, has alternated in recent decades in my territory, has used health care as a customer tool. Years of political-electoral use of the organisation of services and personnel management have led to an unsustainable situation, which now requires this extraordinary intervention of our Government. The very serious administrative and management disorder, with the overlapping of interests of organised crime, justify, without a shadow of a doubt, this courageous but absolutely necessary and urgent political action. With regard to the doubts of constitutionality advanced, regarding the decree under consideration, by many of the opposition, if it is true that the protection of health falls, pursuant to Article 117 of the Constitution, in the matters of concurrent legislation, for which the legislative power (I remind those who know it better than I) belongs to the Region, it is also true that Article 120 of the same Constitution legitimizes the intervention substitute of the Government in extraordinary and very serious cases such as the "protection of the essential levels of benefits concerning civil and social rights." And it is clear how extraordinary and extremely serious the situation of Calabrian health is at present. The regional health system has long been subject to rehabilitation action through failure plans for return and police management, with the appointment of Commissioner of Scopelliti in 2010 and of Scura in 2015. I remind everyone, even myself, that Scopelliti, then governor of Calabria and former mayor of Reggio Calabria, was sentenced last year to four years and seven months for events attributable to when he was mayor of the city of the Strait. What could we expect, after handing over to these hands the health care of my region? After that, we pass to the Dark era, appointed by the Renzi Government, with a region still today in the hands of the Democratic Party. And even today, Governor Oliverio allows himself to criticize these actions. The opposition in this House has pretended too often to forget that it has ruled my region in recent decades. Therefore, the Council of Ministers, held in Reggio Calabria on 18 April last, with the decree-law under consideration, has once again demonstrated that Calabria, for too long forgotten by the Executives who succeeded each other in the years ago, is now at the top of the agenda of this Government! At last, we have a Government able to value the enormous potential that my beloved and complicated Region has: potential, unfortunately, left for too many years unexpressed! The attention placed on Calabrian health care since the beginning of our mandate is bearing fruit; and it is necessary to continue on this path, in order to achieve the first results necessary to improve the quality of life of the Calabrians. In March, the ASP of Reggio Calabria was dissolved for mafia infiltrations. The reasons that led to the decision to dissolve and to the subsequent commissioning are many: the presence of relatives of leading figures of the underworld, prejudiced with assignments in the same company, lack of regular procedures in the custody of contracts and works, failure to approve the budgets from 2013, not kept accounting records. A long and detailed list of crime hypotheses that reveals a very compromised situation and that requires this urgent intervention of the Government. Ten days ago, it was reported that the prefect Commissioners decided by which they proposed to arrange for the extraordinary management of the institution. The Commissioner's insights confirmed the serious situation of irregularities and imbalances in the company's balance sheet: they found a hole of 400 million euros, which, moreover, is added to foreclosures and to third parties for about 250 million more, reaching a total of 650 million. From the Decree-Law Calabria you will have to start with a path of recovery of health Calabria. I am convinced that this is a valid, necessary and urgent measure that creates, for the first time, the presuppositions of an effective and constant control by the State of managerial management, marginalizing the powerful political power on health in the Region. The Calabria Decree will help to put the Calabrian health sector on the rails of legality and transparency. I say this today reluctantly from Calabrian, but with great interest and great confidence in this Government. It is evident that with the Movimento 5 Stars to the Government are no longer allowed the logics that in the past have characterized the health management of my Region. It is time to give Calabrian citizens the right to adequate care and a health service worthy of this name. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you, as regards change (I am honored to support this Government of Change), a phrase I found in the memory drawer just now. It is a beautiful phrase of Cardinal Pappalardo of Palermo: who believes that things should be left as they are, because he believes that they cannot be changed, accepts in fact that politics is split by ethics or, worse, merged with evil. So let us live the change and move forward in this work of real change in the quality of life of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u40	Mr President, I would be tempted to speak very subtlely or even without a microphone to avoid waking up colleagues who see panacea in this measure for all the problems in Calabria. Keep thinking that this decree-law is a solution and I'll leave you alone. I'll let you enjoy this ephemeral conviction. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It's like it's another nation. You think that Calabria is not Italy; treat Calabria as the Third World; Commissioner. Add controls to the controls; intensify this climate of suspicion, which also pervades and pervades all the action of this Government, thinking of resolving it is not clear what ten years after the first police station. I would point out that all the Commissioners were not Calabrian and, therefore, we do not see very well what the solution you are proposing. Calabrians are robbed of more than five years of life compared to Lombards or Venetians. So let us talk about Saudi Calabria; let us rebuke this measure. Mr President, in any case, by surprising me and letting everyone live their own illusions and see their own science fiction films, one wonders how such a measure can be brought into the Chamber with these timings and methods: we have dealt with a measure that deserves to be deepened - God knows how much - with shorter times than if trust had been placed, with absolutely rapid methods and without the possibility of discussing the amendments, as has already been communicated to us in the Commission. In essence, the only part of this measure that we could call good are the agendas, that is, a sort of contentment given to a non-existent debate on themes of dramatic and urgent nature absolutely unique. This is a measure, ladies and gentlemen, which contains four important reforms, in addition to the measures on the Calabria Region: a reform of health and medical professions, a reform of the university, and - I do not know if you are aware - a reform of the Aifa; finally it also contains a reform of the justice because it puts hand to some measures of the Court of Auditors. As far as the medical professions are concerned, it has been widely said by those who preceded me that there is a dramatic problem that comes from afar, that undoubtedly does not concern this Government, but that today it is really urgent. In this regard you act not on the reasons, not on the causes, but on the effects, i.e. you do not act, for example, by increasing the places of specialization schools, by allocating resources. If you don't want to put in money, give someone a chance to pay for specialty school scholarships. We've contracted research to pharmaceutical companies, multinational drug companies, why couldn't we contract 20 specialty schools? Personally, I would prefer to contract 20 specialization schools rather than research to multinational drug companies. Therefore, there are no additional places in the specialization schools and you have, instead, adopted the shortcut - and the spirit of the measure is this: a reform to betray the medical professions - for which those who are not specialized can pretend to be one. Attention: you did not do this with the provision at our examination. It had already been issued, in March 2019, a circular of the MIUR according to which the residents could operate also in the course of specialization school, therefore - I repeat - this measure does absolutely nothing, not even for the purpose for which it aims to act. You have adopted a reform of the Aifa, alongside two apical figures to the general manager and you do not understand well with what logic, with what motivation. This decision emerges from the debate in the other branch of Parliament (they, lucky, were able at least to try to debate) and, be careful, here too there is the mantra of the invariance of expenditure and so how do we pay you these two apical figures who commissioner the Director-General? However, we could also share this last thing. One word for all: triptoreline, I don't know if you know what it is. I'm not telling you. Go look. I therefore share the need to commission and change the Director-General of Aifa, but do so with an organic measure, not by supporting two figures - the Administrative Director and the Technical and Scientific Director - paid with the abolition of other figures who are lower. I've never seen such a thing before. I am a country senator who every day tries to learn something and to continue reading to progress, but I had never seen predicting apical figures after suppression of other lower figures who have to pay with their death the compensation of the apical figures. I don't know where something like this is written, but let's move on. You have planned a reform of the Aifa. I shall now return to the subject of the medical professions. I'm sorry if I'm going to tear up a little bit, but what's more, a rip-off measure involves interventions of this nature. For example, as Mr Binetti has said, we have, for years, given important professional levels to our foreign competitors, that is to say to other countries, with the turnover block. In other words, our residents, for years, because of the turnover block, had to go abroad. 18.20 p.m. (ZAFFINI followed). Not only resident doctors, but also midwives and midwives, as well as other practitioners in medical and nursing professions. Forgive me: in the measure at our examination, put your hands on the matter, we then take back the Italians who went to professionalise abroad, we adopt a measure that facilitates and facilitates the return of the Italians who are abroad because after years of blocking the turnover these people had to run, to earn the famous piece of bread, in other countries, perhaps of the European Community. All this here is not there; it is a measure that acts on the medical professions and medical faculties, simply making the shortcuts legal. It is matter and are acts that can serve in the immediate and short term; it is the teaspoon of sugar dissolved in the water when you have a drop in pressure, but it is not the solution to the problem. It is true that it is 18 months old, but it is still a very useful time to take more organic measures, which are much better in this area than the measure does. I would dare say that this is a graceful measure that, unknowingly, even according to some Calabrian colleagues, adopts measures that act on dramatically serious and urgent issues, with an unawareness and a lightness to be done truly envy, if there were not to be worried about those who are the five years of life deficit that already the inhabitants of Calabria give to the other Italians of the Center and North of Italy. In recent days, together with the Fratelli d'Italia Group, we have deposited the proposal for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the Commissariat Regions, all of them from the South of Italy; I believe that it is particularly urgent to adopt the measure in order to seriously investigate what is happening in this half of Italy, which is truly unfortunate. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u42	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the general insufficiency of Calabrian health, the very serious administrative and management disorder, represent the reasons for the extraordinary intervention that we are going to approve and mark a reversal of the path and a decided discontinuity, both of the rules and of the subjects expression of health governance in Calabria, in order to ferry regional health towards situations of administrative normality. The aim of the measure is to remove the Calabrian health system from the serious deadlock, if not a progressive deterioration, which has led to an increasing fall in the measurement indices of the services provided since 2007. The exchange of extraordinary commissioners made by previous governments has served no purpose; the mafia political connivances, clientele management and management failure have produced the disaster that is before everyone's eyes. The legislative measure aims, in difficulties, to restore order in the regional health organization in order to give back to the Calabrian citizens their dignity and to raise their heads. I, who are a citizen of Campania and a pediatrician, fully understand their discomfort and their enormous difficulties in finding an answer to the question of health which is their right. In my Campania we still live in a situation of regional health commissionership, where the absence of planning and the choices, in my opinion, often wrong of the governor commissioner, have produced a forced closure of several nosocomi, subtracting beds and leaving several areas of the Region uncovered regarding hospital care. The much-warned improvement in the quality of the services provided and the accounts in order is still a mirage. This is demonstrated by the fact that already at the beginning of the year, and in several successive periods, accredited facilities providing instrumental diagnostic services have unilaterally suspended them, with enormous economic damage for citizens and for patients who cannot afford the exotic expenses necessary to take advantage of such diagnostic tests. This is the result and result of bad programming. Finally, let us not mention the complete absence of regional summits' attention to prevention and rehabilitation. This is demonstrated, for example, by the very long waiting lists of neuropsychomotor and sensory rehabilitation centres for children with autistic spectrum. Finally, this Government of change is going to intervene on a critical situation that is now ten years old in order to make radical changes in the management and planning of health care in Calabria. This will be the beginning of a path of transparency and legality within the health structures not only Calabrian, but throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u43	Senator Magorno is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, I have little interest in this technical debate on the question of the constitutionality of this decree. Paraphrasing what Corrado Alvaro said and that I often repeat when I talk about my land and the Calabrians, the people of Calabria want to be cured rather than decreed; among other things with a decree-law that is, precisely, a technical measure that does not foresee a cent of euro of investment for a serious issue - Mr Auddino is right - like that of health in our Region, which counts 404 Municipalities, when they are little less than 8,000 municipalities in our country. Imagine that the "scream" to be cured by the Calabrians is a scream coming from afar, echoing from the night of time. Part of Calabrian emigration is also due to the fact that people in Calabria could not cure themselves. Between villages and districts, imagine what our region was - I remind colleagues who are younger than me - in the 1950s and 1960s? This strong scream, this legitimate request to be cured that came from the Calabrian people has remained mostly unanswered, because the political classes that ruled this country have not been able to give effective answers. There was a Minister of Health from Calabria - I like to remember, because I too come from that story - who brought out vaccines for polio patients from the basements of the Ministry of Health and resolved the issue at that time. He was Minister of Health in the 1960s and it was the first time that a socialist held the post of Minister of Health and invested in Calabria. Perhaps that was the only investment, hospitals were born throughout our region: they tried with the investments. I'm not one who believes in the police stations, I didn't believe in the last parliamentary term, and I don't believe it now either. They are the enemy of the commissioners in general, beyond if they concern Calabria rather than Tuscany or Piedmont: never the commissioners in the Mezzogiorno of Italy have produced positive things in the history of this country. The real point, however, is that the first answer came and blocked a sanitary emigration that went to Puglia (for the people who lived in the Ionian area), to the Basilicata (for the one who lived in the Tyrrhenian area of Calabria) or even the emigration that went from the villages to the small towns of Calabria (because Calabria, as my colleagues know, does not have large cities), but the political class that came after - it is true what some of you have said - was not able to transform those sanitary garrisons into specialized garrisons of excellence. That's the real point. The Calabrians must move every year to thousands and thousands to go to cure tumors or cardiovascular diseases outside our Region, in Rome rather than in Turin, Milan or Potenza: it is a story that happened to each of us, to each of the families of Calabria. This debate is not passionate, because it is a question of power; it is a debate that wants to replace a piece of central power, the State and the Government that you represent here, in the power of the Region. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This is the real point, and this discussion does not fascinate the Calabrians and the people who need to be cured. I have listened to the speeches that have been made here, yours is a response of power: it takes away a managed power in our region, a political power. Some of you said that you want to take away from politics the management of the directors-general's appointments: it is an argument that I am not passionate about, just as I am not passionate about inspectors and litigation. I would like to discuss with a Government within which there is an important piece of politics of the Mezzogiorno of Italy and which has had a great consensus, also on these issues, not subtracting power but bringing resources on this important segment of our Region and in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] If that were the discussion, I would be delighted. This decree-law I cannot vote for, not only as a senator of the Democratic Party, but also as a man of the Mezzogiorno, who belongs to this unfortunate, beautiful but bitter Region of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. And I ask you to stop and start concerting so that you can see how to give this emergency of health care, which is extraordinarily important and mortifying for this suffering people, the answer that must be given and that the Calabrian people must have. Stop and together we open our reasoning on health care. Stop and let's open up all the arguments you want with respect to Calabria and the Mezzogiorno. You have a great duty; you have had a great deal of consensus and you have the duty - the citizens of the Mezzogiorno have the right - to give this land the answers that the Calabrians deserve. For these reasons, and for many others, I cannot vote on this decree-law. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u46	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I regret that Mr Grillo's absence in this House too, after being absent and called back to the Chamber of Deputies, we would have expected a minimum of attention to this House, which was not there. Like the colleague of the Brothers of Italy, from Calabria, I am still shocked by the speeches made by my colleagues from Calabria, because they demonstrate - as well as belonging to the 5 Stars - that they live on a parallel world, which I invite them to abandon in order to return to the real world. From Calabrian honestly I am bewildered. I had welcomed the advent of the Calabria Decree-Law, because as a Calabrian I hoped that there would be an incisive action - as must be a decree-law - aimed at resolving all the critical issues, which certainly brought all the previous Governments both right and left. Yet, by an Executive who calls itself the "Government of Change," "Government of Honesty" we would have expected a measure to resolve all the inconveniences that Calabrians face daily. On the contrary, it took little to realize that everything that was expected in a decree-law of this kind was absolutely not present. I'll say more. A scientific operation was carried out for the occupation of power no longer by the Region but by the Government. So, Mr Magorno speaks well when he says that nothing has changed; the employer has simply changed: from the Region you have brought him to the Government because now the Government is represented by you. The doubt arises that the operation comes simply from the fact that, unable to manage Calabria from the Region and willing to manage it, you have issued a decree-law that bases its asset simply on the possibility for you to manage Calabria from Rome. There are a number of issues that are not going well. I will deal with many of them tomorrow, when we look at the many amendments that will lie to my two colleagues, Grenato and Auddino, who, in their speeches a few minutes ago, said that with the Government of Change, politics will never again get its hands on health. Tomorrow we will show you how lying you are; this decree-law will show Italy and the Calabrians how false you are, how much you have mocked them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Let's move on. Mr Grillo was the author of a scene the other day: after the calls of his colleagues to his presence in the Chamber, she arrived and made a scene; she took it with all the parties that over the years destroyed health in Calabria saying that this way of acting must no longer belong to politics. In fact, the Minister was right; are you right, how can you blame her? However, beyond that sentence, immediately after you have to blame her because everything you say is not going well is implementing it with the decree-law under examination. In addition, you have shown how little interest there is on the part of the Government for health care because, if it had not been for colleagues of Forza Italia and other opposition forces to the House, you would have prevented the Calabria Region from being able to recruit staff at a time of extreme gravity. Therefore, thanks to the colleagues of the House who managed to obtain at least this minimum advantage for the Region. But my appeal must also be addressed to the friends of the League. Dear friends, it is true, this is a provision of the 5 Stars, so the birthright is theirs, but do not allow them to carry on and approve this disaster, because you too will be complicit in this disaster and in all the disasters that colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars are carrying forward. Minister Grillo said he loves Calabrians. Well, if that is the way in which the Minister demonstrates his love for my land, that he turns his love towards other regions because we absolutely do not need this kind of love, nor do we have to say thank you to her for a decree-law that has nothing to do with the hardships of Calabrian health! We must say thanks only to the hundreds of people, doctors, nurses, assistants, that every day they sacrifice themselves and take risks in order to give health services: doctors are the real heroes of Calabria, not Minister Grillo! In my opinion, the Calabrian doctors should be awarded a medal of civil value for everything they do every day for us citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Turning to the detail of the measure, my colleagues, especially Calabrians, have rightly made a list of everything that is not working in Calabria. I could also make this list; what can't I do instead? I cannot list a single rule included in this decree-law that can solve the problem of the LEA, the problem of the now chronic lack of staff, the problem of health debt, the problem of health emigration: there is not a single norm that addresses these problems, there is not one. You know, Mr Grillo - you, ladies and gentlemen, for the intervention you did certainly do not know - what is a report of pathological anatomy? Let me explain: a report of pathological anatomy is the report that a patient waits after an operation or after an examination in which material is taken and it is used to give an answer, that is to let that patient know whether or not he has a pathology (often a neoplastic pathology). Tell Minister Grillo that there is an area in Calabria, the central area of the ASL in Catanzaro, which delivers histologic reports to patients after three months; therefore a patient, to know whether or not he has a tumor, must wait three months. That is what Mr Grillo should have taken care of, not to appoint the Director-General who likes you or your lady friend! And tomorrow I'll show you why. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u47	Let's prove it quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u48	MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). The problems of radiotherapy should have been dealt with. In Calabria, dear Minister Grillo, there are only four instruments that can carry out radiotherapy to cancer patients. Do you know what that means? It means that an oncology patient can carry out a radiotherapy treatment (which by protocol must be performed within two months of surgery, otherwise is in vain) only after six months. This should have been dealt with by Mr Grillo. He should have taken care not to shut down ortho for lack of medical personnel. Today's news is: delivery room, security not guaranteed; the alarm launched by the directors of the birth points of Calabria. This should have been dealt with by Mr Grillo, not by the Directors-General. Hence my regret and many Calabrians, who expected this Government to help Calabria. On the other hand, you have not given aid to Calabria; you have only given aid to a Member of my Province, to enable it to appoint as Director-General one of its collaborators, whom you yourself have described as unpaid. ROMAGNOLI (M5S). We haven't seen action in 40 years. It is shameful that we are talking about cancer patients in this way, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Thank you. We're about to finish the surgery, no bother. MANGIALAVORI (FI-BP). This is what we are talking about in the Calabria Decree-Law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u49	I don't think anyone can speak until everything happens in compliance with normal surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u50	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u51	Mr President, what the municipality can do must not be done by the Region; what the Region can do is not by the State: this is the principle of decentralisation. It is a guarantee principle for citizens, because it ensures that they have an administration closer to the problems of the territory, to its needs, with choices more directly verifiable by the citizens living there. But by the same principle, where the Region does not do or where it hurts, the State can and must intervene. When a provincial health company like that of Reggio Calabria has a budget gap of 400 million euros, plus another 250 million euros between injunctions and foreclosures, there is not only a financial failure, but the right to health, to safety and also the right to life in extreme cases is compromised. A crisis of this proportion undermines social cohesion and destroys the perception of the state's presence in a region that has already given too much in terms of suffering. The state must intervene, because in this disaster the mob organisations have also penetrated health. The current Council of Ministers, on the basis of the prefectural report, has dissolved the Provincial Health Company (ASP) of Reggio Calabria for infiltrations of the 'ndrangheta and numerous other files are in the hands of the prosecutors of Reggio Calabria, Palmi and Locri. If the Region does not know how to manage health care, if it does not know how to retain party-cratic interests and even its clientele interests, nor the mafia plots, if it causes disruption, waste, corruption and malasanity, the commissioner ad acta cannot be the President of the Region. Instead, we saw this, in Campania and Calabria, until 28 November, when the amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars deleted this absurdity. We now delete another: in the Commission, Mr Senator Siclari said that the Commissariat did not work, because there is no cooperation between the President of the Region and the Commissioner. Are you kidding me? At this point, I ask you, Mr President, but also all the citizens: if the local party-cracy has caused the disaster and if it still stands in the way today, sabotage the solution, can the solution ever be to put everything back in the hands of the usual known? The decree-law in question intervenes precisely where the local party-cracy has failed. First of all, it provides that the Commissioner ad acta for the Calabria Region checks every six months the activities of the Directors-General of the ASPs - who, let us remember, are appointed by regional policy - and that, if they have not taken coherent actions or are responsible for inertia, they are removed. In their place they will be appointed extraordinary commissioners, chosen - hear! - between persons of proven competence and experience of health organization and business management (a thing never happened before), who will have to develop a business plan, supported by a crisis unit that will carry out inspection visits useful precisely to develop that plan. [[Applause from Senator Abbot]] If these extraordinary Commissioners work well, they will receive additional compensation, but if the checks fail, they will be removed. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is what citizens demand, namely that those who have power over their lives have a responsibility: those who are wrong pay and the State must be guarantor towards all citizens. Secondly, we are dealing with the management of contracts and the cobwebs of interest and evil are being cleared. Above the Community thresholds, purchases and supplies of goods and services must take place through the centralized procedures of the Council or through structures of other regions. Even under these thresholds, however, the Commissioner ad acta will establish a convention with the Anti-corruption Authority. Reset: this is the keyword. A reset is what the citizens expect and to those who fear that this reorganization aims only at the aspects of financial return I remember that the decree-law provides a series of measures for a more careful and constant verification of the respect of the level of the benefits provided, because this intervention, before and more than to protect the public finances, aims to resolve the dramatic situation of the health calabra and to restore the right to care. Some detractors see in the decree-law in question a contradiction with the path of regional autonomy. On the other hand, I think that the principle of monitoring responsibilities and the sanctioning regime introduced are the best guarantee: precisely in the presence of a vigilant and attentive state, which intervenes promptly and also at a preventive level against bad management, differentiated regionalism may not be a gamble. I was talking about prevention because, ladies and gentlemen, after lustres and consiliatures of degradation and decomposition of the Calabrian health system, the decree-law under consideration provides for an anticipation of the bill concerning appointments of health management, which for the first time in Italy will be removed from the foreign interests of the partycracy and finally based on merit. It is a revolution: Italy becomes normal. I am sorry that some people are being shielded from the fear of unconstitutionality in the amendment voted to the House: they have lost the opportunity to show courage. The same that we had in the suppression of vitality: even in that case they told us that it was impossible. Changing means doing something that others thought impossible: we will, therefore, have health leaders chosen from a specific list, with clear and documented competences, identified by impartial commissions, where the risk of manipulation and agreements is reduced, such as those that we have seen emerge from the interceptions involving the former Minister Lotti, even in the heart of the administration of justice, to condition an appointment that concerned his personal judicial events. This has dramatically affected public opinion, it has shown naked the systems of power that have governed until today. It is something that morally offends and mortifies, but when it comes to health care it literally kills. Instead, it begins to take shape the Italy that can be. Indeed, Mr President, Italy can. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u52	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u53	I communicate that, subject to agreements with the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, the communications of the President of the Council with a view to the European Council on 20 and 21 June will take place tomorrow from 16.30.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u56	VONO (M5S). Mr President, yesterday the Calabrian Regional Council, after years of silence on the need to intervene in the construction of road infrastructure, felt the need to discuss the work of the third megalot of the Sibari-Roseto-Capo Spulico state road, with the only intention of continuing in a futile denigratory campaign towards the Government. Collegi, the Calabrian Regional Council, everything, for pure hypocrisy, lack of political foresight and total lack of respect for the Calabrians and for the Italians who have the right to always and not only benefit in view of the forthcoming electoral consultations of infrastructures that can be traveled safely for a profitable development of the territory, instead of considering the interest of this Government for the realization of this only great work for South Italy (a goal achieved), thinks to denigrate the constant commitment of Minister Toninelli, who already with note of July 2018, also following my personal interest and delivery of documentation on this infrastructure, stated that it is working in order to reach the best solutions, without allowing that this implies any delay in the process of the works on the important road artery. For the sake of intellectual honesty, the President of the Calabria region should have informed that the company which owns 60% of the participations of the general contractor of the megalot is in crisis and is expected in July the decision of the court of Rome regarding the possible collection by the other company, holder of the remaining 40%, of the contracted works. However today, thanks to the approval of the decree-law unblocks yards, it is possible to intervene for the priority infrastructural participations and therefore in this case with the appointment of a figure ad acta with the power to assume every useful determination for the rapid start of the intense activities. It is therefore not a punitive measure to humiliate Calabria and the South and to delay the work, as we want to suggest, but a necessary measure to allow the realization of a priority work for the road traffic of the South. I say then to the political forces of obstruction and to the political leaders of the Calabria Region, who seem to be struggling with puffs that reduce the noble art of politics at the level of primitive barter between vain promises and tips of votes, to think about raising the level of their political action, so that it is worth to redeem the martyred territories, but dignified despite everything and despite them. I appeal to the Calabrian citizens to believe in politics, the highest form of charity. [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u57	Thank you, Senator Vono, your speech was quite clear. We are quite strict on the time allowed for the end-of-session speeches.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u60	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days a grim game is circulating on the net. In a room there is a student and a teacher: the user can choose a torture tool and start a video in which the pupil beats the teacher. There are ten options available. The boy can violently assault the teacher with a chair, stab him, throw him out of a window, cut off his jugular, strangle him, poison him or set him on fire. In the site that advertises the game, which is called "Don't whack your teacher" the presentation is emblematic, claiming that this macabre online game allows you to vent a strong anger against a figure of unfriendly authority. We cannot think of giving little importance to this falsely goliardic initiative. Unfortunately, the current news reports many episodes of violence, often heinous, involving teachers. Attacks on teachers by parents and pupils are no longer isolated, but are a growing phenomenon in our society. Any form of aggression and violence, even in virtual ways, cannot be regarded as lawful in any way, especially if it is aimed at institutions, i.e. schools, which are the place of the formation of individual conscience and social and civil education, as well as the formation and transmission of knowledge. The Italian school is going through a rather complex phase, also because of the crisis of values and family models that has been affecting Italian civil society for too long. The constitutional and republican educational model, centered on the combination of school and family as places in which to build the foundations for human, cultural and valuable growth of the younger generations, is in crisis. The discrasia that is evident in the relationship between the school training model and the forms of extra-scholastic socialization is evident and alarming and is increasingly evident in the failure to respect the rules and roles. Teachers are often victims of the protection, arrogance and violence, including verbal violence, of parents, who discharge frustrations or individual failures against the decisions made by teachers towards their children, without understanding the serious consequences resulting from the delegitimizing acts and behaviour of a teacher, as well as the damaging consequences of professional dignity. For this reason, the entire Italian society has the duty to protect and enhance the profession and role of teachers, called to carry out a wide-ranging work, and the fundamental tasks carried out by the educational institutions. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u63	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, yesterday morning a citizen of Pesaro, exasperated by malpractice, chained himself to a window of the Supreme Council of the judiciary in Rome for four hours, until - around 2 p.m. - thanks to the skill of a colonel of the Carabinieri and a doctor and the availability of the Attorney General of the Republic at the Court of Appeal of Ancona, Sergio Sottani, who received him this morning and whom I thank, has loosed his chains without causing traumatic events. Another citizen responded to the protest this morning. According to official data, the prolonged processes for various reasons beyond the limits of the reasonable duration (three years at first instance, two in appeal, one in Cassation) were 968,000, of which 345,000 in penalty and 623,000 in civil. The malpractice, made of thousands of complaints caused by the length of trials and delays in the filing of judgments, quantified by Bankitalia in 22 billion euros per year and the compensations of about one billion per year imposed by the Pinto law for the victims of sick justice, often unjust, is always strictly applied to poor Christians and chicken thieves, benevolently interpreted for powerful, bankers and bankers, always free. The judicial quake that struck the MSM and some judges who were mercenaries of their judicial function assuming themselves a new P5, must induce the Government and Parliament to speed up the reform of justice and the MSC in order to restore confidence to citizens sometimes "justified" by criminal justice. "I have spoken of Rome, Lo Vi, of Creazzo (...): they can say that I am the P5, that I am the one making the nominations." From the intercepts on a powerful magistrate, head of the centrist current of Unicost, investigated in Perugia on an alleged corruption for some trips and utilities that he would receive, emerge cross-mail, threats, poisons, dossier, leaks of news, maneuvers to choose the leaders of the Procura functional to investigated politicians and an instrumental use of the mass media that could be at the limit of the exversion. He writes, among other things, Giacomo Amadori on "The Truth": In the survey on the so-called toghe market (...) the ghost of the Council survey also falls. And the new wiretapping from the newspapers could anticipate surprising scenarios. Yesterday, in particular, we were struck by some sections of a dialogue between former Undersecretary Luca Lotti and Palamara, carpito on the night of May 9. In those conversations the PM betrays livor with his old chief Giuseppe Pignatone, who, until the day of retirement, just on May 9, was the holder of the file Consip, together with the added Paolo Ielo. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lannotti, I invite you to conclude. LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, this investigation reveals a glimpse of unjust justice that must be filled. This market for justice betrays the confidence of citizens! That is why I hope that this famous reform of justice and the MSC will be carried out! [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u64	It seemed right to have her conclude this reasoning, which was right to be clear, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u67	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, unable to understand and will and obliged to serve ten years in a health facility, the REMS: this is the sentence issued by Judge Mattia Fiorentini against Guilin Fang, thirty-six-year-old of Chinese origin who, on the afternoon of August 22, 2018, ferociously killed Filomena Cataldi, mother and companion of forty-four years, taken away from the affection of her family and now, after the sentence of June 11, victim for the second time. On that late summer afternoon Filomena, opening the door to her neighbor, did not imagine sure that from there shortly she would be beaten and killed. Everything happened in a few minutes, in that building of San Polo di Torrile, in the lower Parmense, where Filomena lived with her partner and daughter and where her killer lived upstairs with his wife and two children. He, the killer, had convinced himself that Filomena and her partner were planning a plan to kill him and, taking advantage of the absence of Filomena's partner, had appeared at his door and, after an altercation, would hit and strangle him, then infusing on his body now lifeless with a blunt object. A tragedy, which perhaps could be avoided. Yes, because from the testimonies collected by the investigators, it was immediately clear that the killer was not new to violent behavior, reported by the neighbors, for the quarrels that had often involved his wife, as well as a large part of the neighborhood. So much so that someone, for these reasons, was seriously thinking of moving elsewhere. The unjustified and sick obsession of Fang put an end to Filomena's life, to her everyday life made of work, affections and family. Everything has changed since then for his family members, who have had to stem an unbreakable absence and an uncontrollable pain, in the hope of at least a fair sentence for that ferocious murder, a sentence that would restore at least a little 'justice to the memory of Filomena. Now Filomena's family not only have to deal with the pain, but also with the anger of a sentence that does not do justice and also obliges them to carry the weight of direct and indirect costs of this tragic event. Since China has been declared incapable of understanding and will and, therefore, not capable of being tried, it follows that it will not arrive at a final judgment and therefore it is impossible to propose a claim for compensation. I cannot and I do not want to remain indifferent to the heartfelt appeal that Filomena's sister Rosângela has made to me, asking me as Parma's Member of Parliament to make myself spokesperson in this assembly, involving the other colleagues of the various groups, the urgent need to promote a legislative campaign. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u68	Senator, you may have brought the lady's voice. There are two requests for intervention from Senators Gallone and Marin on the killing of a carabiniere in the province of Bergamo. Before I give you the floor, I am obliged to point out that, as Vice President of the Senate, I have sent my condolences to the commander of the Arm of the Nistri Carabinieri, not only my own, for this umpteenth victim of the duty he gave his life for the protection of public order and our freedom. (Appalusi). I call Senator Gallone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u69	Mr President, thank you for the important gesture of closeness. She called his death a halt, but she didn't stop and took him away. This is how the co-workers of the selected Emanuele Anzini, overwhelmed and killed by a drunk driver who fled to the checkpoint, remember him on the Facebook page of the Carabinieri's weapon. Emanuele Anzini was celebrating her 42nd birthday today. He was of Abruzzo origin, of Sulmona, married and father of Sara, a 19-year-old girl. Son of the Carabiniere, he joined the Arma in 1997, serving from 1998 to 2006 in Brembate, in the province of Bergamo, and from 2006 to Sunday night at the mobile operating core of the Zogno company. He fell while serving in the fulfillment of his duty. It's 3 o'clock in Terno d'Isola and the patrol is on the way to normal controls. Anzini and the colleague are out of the car; the flashing is on; they wear the red bib and it is impossible not to see them. A car had been stopped just before and they were delivering the documents to the driver. Until there it seems like a night like the others, but all of a sudden the tragedy occurs: a car arrives at a sustained speed. At the wheel there is a young man who in 2018 had already been reported for failure of rescue because after the accident had fled, and to whom three months ago had been withdrawn the license for a month for speeding. When the car gets to the height of the distributor, Anzini intimates the halt. Aware of drinking too much, the driver (who was found to have an alcohol content of 2.97 grams per litre, six times above permitted) instead of stopping accelerates and invests the pin. The impact is very violent: the windshield breaks through and the body of the carabiniere is blown at about fifty meters. The investor runs away. After about ten minutes, he goes back and gets arrested by the polstrada. The accusations against him are heavy, but Anzini will not rise again. Many messages of condolence, starting with that of the President of the Republic and our Vice President. Sergio Mattarella sent a letter to the commander-general of the Arma, speaking of deep sadness and of "commossa" participation in the pain of family members. Today, Anzini would have turned forty-two. Today would have been her birthday. What this House can do for Emanuele Anzini, pinned down in the performance of his duty, is to guarantee his family that justice will be done and that the State will not leave them alone. On behalf of the city and province of Bergamo, Sulmona, Abruzzo and Italy as a whole, we express to the family and to the Carabinieri weapon our deep proximity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u70	I call Senator Marin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is an act of pain. There are people who every day and every night choose to wear a uniform, knowing well that they risk the next most precious: life. So did Emanuele Anzini, chosen by the Carabinieri's weapon, overwhelmed and killed in Bergamo while he was doing his job at a control post. He was killed by a drunk driver. Emanuele today, June 18, would have turned 42. Happy birthday, Emanuele, and let the earth be light to you. Mr President, I would ask you to use the time allowed for my speech to observe a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u72	However, I would have invited the House to observe him, Senator Marin. I am very happy to do so at your request. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u73	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-122.ana.u74	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 19 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.12 p.m.
