ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 25 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, last October 4, inside the Trieste police station, two young police officers lost their lives, after being shot while doing their duty. Matteo Demenego and Pierluigi Rotta, thirty-one and thirty-four years old, originally from Velletri and Pozzuoli respectively, had always distinguished themselves for a sense of duty, dedication and professional ability. Two guys called smiling and generous, as well as all those who do their work with passion and serenity. The unprecedented murderous violence carried out by the murderer, stopped outside the offices and brought to justice, shook the entire nation, starting with the citizens of Trieste, who for days paid homage to Matthew and Pierluigi by going to the entrance of the police station to leave flowers, drawings, tickets, candles. This Assembly, which has always been close to the Forces of Order and their needs, is moved by our heroes of everyday life. To the families, friends and colleagues of the agents Matteo Demenego and Pierluigi Rotta and to the entire State Police go therefore all the proximity and condolences of the Senate of the Republic. In their remembrance, I invite the House to a minute's recollection. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u7	IRON (FI-BP). Mr President, last week in Verona, Mr Valentino Perdonà, a class of 1915, died. He was the longest-lived of former Members. He missed Verona, his hometown. He was a member of the Christian Democracy for four legislatures, the second, the third, the fifth and the sixth. It came from a modest family, made up of twelve children. He could not complete his masterly maturity because they had no resources at home and took his maturity by going to school in the evening; in 1934 he also achieved classical maturity. He graduated in letters from the University of Padua and during the war, between 1942 and 1945, obtained his second degree in law at the University of Bari, during the military service. He also obtained his third degree in pharmacy at the University of Parma in 1948. He is in the army during World War II as a infantry officer. It will spend six years in arms, some of them on the western front, others in Russia and Yugoslavia. After September 8, he joined the National Liberation Corps. After the war, he devoted himself to teaching in various high schools in the province of Verona, until he was first vice principal and then principal of a magisterial institute. But politics was his true passion. He has always, until the last and with absolute consistency, inspired all his political action to the social doctrine of the Church: provincial president of Catholic Action, elected city councilor and then city councilor of Verona, from 1954 to 1980 he is uninterruptedly president of the Union of Verona Municipalities. He was mayor of the municipality of Soave from 1956 to 1970 and from 1970 to 1985 city councilor of Caldiero, a country where I held the role of mayor. In Parliament, during its four legislatures, it was a member of the Education, Finance and Budget Committees. He was also the first president of the local health unit of East Verona and, until a few years ago, member of the board of directors of Catholic insurance. He was a gentleman with a straight back, intransigent with himself but also with those who were working with him. Faithfulness to the teachings of the Church's social doctrine was the guideline that inspired all her political action. With Professor Vecchiato he contributed to the birth of the University of Verona, supporting with conviction the Higher Institute of Historical Sciences "Ludovico Antonio Muratori." If I can summarize in a few words everything that was Mr Valentino Perdonà, I would say that he was a man of unshakable faith, had a very high value of the family, recognized a fundamental importance to study and believed in personal commitment to make all things better. Thank you, Mr Fordonà, for what you have done at the service of the institutions, our city and our Province. Thank you, President, for giving me the opportunity to remember that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u8	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Socrate-Mallardo) of Marano di Napoli, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u11	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I too, taking advantage of your personal courtesy and that of my colleagues, would like to remind you that yesterday we accompanied to the Duomo of Milan, for the last greeting, a personality that I believe was that of a great Italian: Giorgio Squinzi. [[Applause]] He was not only president of the Confindustria but also a great and courageous man of industry, a man of sport, a man who did so much for volunteering and for his neighbor. I believe that the general concussion that was yesterday in a cathedral in Milan is the most truthful demonstration of what this gentleman was during his life. I think it's right that in today's Senate shorthand report, alongside other necessary memories, you can see that of Giorgio Squinzi who really deserved it all for the journey he made in this life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 30 October 2019. Today will be discussed the bill on the detachment of the Municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region, at the end of which the session will be removed to allow the work of the Commissions on the Update Note to the Document of Economy and Finance 2019. The discussion of the Update Note will take place tomorrow, starting at 9.30 a.m. The sitting will be suspended from 1.30 p.m. to 3 p.m. The Leaders also agreed to give additional time for explanations of vote in relation to the distribution already published. The calendar of the week also provides for the discussion of the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage and Question Time at 3 p.m. on Thursday 10, with the presence of the Ministers for Justice, Economic Development and Youth Policy and Sport. Next week's timetable provides for the discussion of the Decree-Law on the Protection of Work and Resolution of Corporate Crisis and, on Wednesday 16, at 10.30 a.m., the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on the European Council of 17 and 18 October. In addition, where the Commission concludes, the document setting up a single-cameral investigation commission on the safety and exploitation of work and the Segre motion and others on the establishment of an extraordinary Commission to combat intolerance, racism and anti-Semitism will be discussed. The question time of Thursday 17 is confirmed at 3 p.m. The week from 21 to 25 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Shareholders' Meeting will be held only if it is necessary to continue the discussion of the decree-law on the protection of work and resolution of corporate crises. In the week from 29 to 30 October will be discussed the decree-law on the reorganization of the Ministries. The group leaders also agreed that, on Tuesday 22 October, at 3 p.m., vacant posts will be elected to the Commission's Presidency Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u13	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of proceedings until 30 October 2019: [[Tuesday, October 8, 16.30-20 - Draft law n. 1144 and related - Detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche region and aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna region (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. LVII, n. 2-a - Update note of the Economy and Finance Document 2019 (Wednesday 9, 9.30 a.m.) - Legal drawings no. 257 and 702 - Ratification of the Lighthouse Convention on Cultural Heritage - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 10, 15:00) Wednesday 9 " 9:30 Thursday 10 " 9:30-20]] Motions for resolutions on document LVII, No 2-a (Note to update the Economy and Finance Document 2019) will have to be tabled before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. [[Tuesday, October 15, 16.30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 1476 - Decree-Law No. 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution (decades on November 3rd) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (Wednesday 16, 10.30 a.m.) - Doc. XXII, n. 4 - Establishment of a single-cameral commission of inquiry on the safety and exploitation of work (from the drawing-up office) (where concluded by the Commission) - Motion No 136, Secrets and others, on the establishment of an extraordinary commission for the fight against intolerance, racism, anti-Semitism and incitement to hatred and violence - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 17, 15:00) Wednesday 16 " 10,30-20 Thursday 17 " 9,30-20]] The week from 21 to 25 October will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. The Shareholders' Meeting will be held only if it is necessary to continue the discussion of the bill n. 1476 (Decree-Law n. 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution). [[Tuesday, October 29, 16,30-20 - Drawing of Law No. 1493 - Decree-Law No. 104, Reorder Ministry (decades on November 20) Wednesday, 30 " 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministries) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 2-a (Note to update the Economy and Finance Document 2019) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 9' FI-BP 47' L-SP-PSd'Az 46' PD 36' FdI 27' IV-PSI 26' Mixed 26' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1476 (Decree-Law No 101, Work Protection and Corporate Resolution) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 17 and 18 October 2019 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 41' FI-BP 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' PD 22' FdI 16' IV-PSI 15' Mixed 15' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1493 (Decree-Law No 104, Reorder Ministeri) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h Government 1h Votes 1h Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 36' FI-BP 1h 6' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 4' PD 51' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Mixed 36' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1144, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 720 and 959. The rapporteur, Senator Grassi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u15	Mr President, this bill brings the detachment of the municipalities of Montecopiolo and Sassofeltrio from the Marche Region and their aggregation to the Emilia-Romagna Region, within the province of Rimini. The Senate Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on 23 July, dismissed the measure, in the same text approved in the Chamber of Deputies on 12 March, resulting in the absorption of the related bills No 720 and No 959, already examined jointly. The request for detachment was submitted to a referendum, organized, by decree of the President of the Republic, for 24 and 25 June 2007, therefore twelve years ago, and was approved in both municipalities. However, while the Emilia-Romagna Region expressed its favourable orientation on the proposal for such aggregation, with the resolution of 17 April 2012 of the Legislative Assembly, the Marche Region expressed itself negatively, with the approval of motion 492, at the session of the Regional Council no. 128 of 16 April 2019. In this last act of direction, the opposition to the proposal has been argued with the overcoming of the referendum outcome of 2007, because in the twelve years in the meantime a natural demographic and cultural evolution would have been determined and therefore a overcoming of the referendary position. It should be noted, however, that the opinion of the Marche Region was expressed only after the adoption of the bill at first reading by the Chamber of Deputies. For a long time, in fact, the Region did not consider to respond to the request for an opinion from the Minister for Regional Affairs. Even in the current legislature, the Presidency of the Constitutional Affairs Committee of the House, before starting the debate on the procedure, further urged the Regional Council to express its views, in accordance with Article 132 (2) of the Constitution. In response, the President of the Marche Council, however, pointed out that it was impossible to reach an opinion on the grounds that the results of a referendum were not reliable, which was held twelve years ago. Thus, the House of Deputies decided to continue the examination in the absence of the prescribed opinion. Before a brief analysis of the measure, I would like to stress that the examination in the Commission has taken place with great attention for all the interests at stake. The members of the Commission had made it very clear that the referendum took place a few years ago. For this reason, the examination has been particularly in-depth and, it should be pointed out, with the willingness of all political forces to find an objectively fair solution, because, I would like to stress, the subject is free from political assessments. The implementation of the referendum will have to be assessed without any political conditioning. Here the issue comes down to a simple question: do these referendums have a term beyond which they should no longer be considered valid? The Commission has been concerned about taking this profile very carefully. For this reason, I am pleased to say to this House that the work done has been comprehensive and comprehensive. In terms of content, this bill consists of only three articles. Specifically, Article 1 provides for the posting and aggregation of the municipalities we are talking about. I do not take account, for short, of the subsequent articles as they contain only implementing provisions. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u18	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Grassi, for his speech. In fact, Mr President, we are asking for this measure to be suspended and for it to be referred back to the competent Commission. We do so, Mr President, as you know, under Rule 93 (6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. I, out of respect for a very controversial issue and for the suspensive issue that I am presenting, do not want to enter now, at this stage, into the detail of the merit of this bill and, therefore, of this measure. Mr President, on the other hand, I would like to explain why, in our opinion, the need for a more detailed examination of the measure - and I am referring to the term 'necessary'. These reasons are contained in the very accurate report that Senator Grassi carried out earlier. I shall confine myself to highlighting certain parts of your report. The first is a very delicate measure. It is a controversial measure, as was also controversial the request, made at the time, many years ago. Senator Grassi said that the referendums took place in June 2007, so more than 12 years ago and therefore an era ago from the political and social point of view, also because of the very fast transformations that characterize these years. It is a delicate measure because it rewrites the borders of two Provinces and of two Regions in a manner that is unrelated to what is an overall and reasoned reform, which also has the rank of a real constitutional or parliamentary reform. Of course, I am well aware - I say this with the utmost respect for that referendum outcome - that this procedure is the son of Article 132 of our Constitution, but the subject, as has been pointed out, is precisely this: if those referendums, already very controversial at that time, that already then, more than twelve years ago, in June 2007, passed by a handful of votes, in one of the two municipalities for just over 50%, still have a validity, at the moment when - this is the third point that I want to highlight, as the rapporteur has done - the political context has undoubtedly changed. Before 2007 there had been the passage of some municipalities of Valmarecchia towards the Province of Rimini and the arguments at the basis of that passage, in these years, have been largely contradicted. The social condition, the electoral body, and also the social composition of our territories have changed. There is one element, in addition to this: Article 132 provides for the expression of both regional councils, so not, in this case, of the government, which is the expression of a majority that has a political color, but of a regional council that represents all political forces, the integrity of the electoral body of a region, regardless of political parties. The legislative assembly of the Marche Region has expressed a clearly negative opinion to this detachment for the reasons that I have previously mentioned in title and that now, in order to stay to what said before, I do not want to summarize in detail. These are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for which we are asking for further consideration, for the debate to be resumed and for which we can also continue this work - certainly of this I acknowledge the rapporteur, the President and all the members of the 1st Commission - which has seen an important process of hearings, but there has been a lack in the political debate in the Commission. I would like to remind the rapporteur and the members of the Commission that in that Commission, at some point, it was decided to force that debate, not to have the time to deal with all the arguments that emerged from the round of hearings of such a delicate and controversial measure, so impacting from the point of view of employment standards, essential health and school services, from the point of view of economic development and the overall growth of both territories, because it was decided to proceed, for example, without the Commission knowing the cause of the opinion of the Budget Commission, which came only later, Mr President. That forcing, the lack of that opinion, which is a fundamental element of merit in the debate in the Commission, is certainly a substantial issue, the fifth point that I bring to support the request that we make for this measure to be dealt with in this Chamber only after having dealt with it in a comprehensive manner within the Commission. That is why, Mr President, we are calling for referral back to the Commission under the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u19	I note that a debate will take place on the suspensive issue, in which one representative per Group will be able to speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u22	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the request for the return to the Commission of the bill for the detachment of the two municipalities from the Marches and their aggregation with Emilia-Romagna, made by Mr Verducci with pretentious motives, today we certify that the majority has been mocked by the communities of Sassofeltrio and Montecopiolo. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups]] Those citizens today are further mocked after the postponement of 25 September. What is happening is evident to everyone: to my colleagues Croatti and Coltorti, who had rushed to the gallery on August 1st to reassure the mayors of the two municipalities and the representatives of the Committee for the Detachment, I would like to say that the Movimento 5 Stars suffers the blackmail of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In fact, he must submit to the games and the whims of a member of the Democratic Party of the Marche, who is today a member of the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This humiliated the popular will expressed in June 2007 by the two communities, with the referendum held under Article 132 (2) of the Constitution, which saw a great participation and registered 84 percent of votes for the posting. In addition, this will was also confirmed last June by the two municipal councils called upon to express their views on an agenda presented by Mr Calderoli in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Mr Verducci, the conditions have not changed: the citizens of these two municipalities want to enter the Province of Rimini to the school services and care that the Marche authorities of the Democratic Party have never been able to guarantee, unable to fill voids for more than twelve years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Twelve years after the referendum, the request for referral back to the Commission is an arrogant and bullying gesture. If the reason is that petitions are being made in those two countries, I note that the citizens of those countries claim that those petitions are being done and that they are being taken out of the register; moreover, these petitions have also been denounced to the prosecutor of the Republic. To those who say - as also Senator De Bertoldi on 25 September - that the referendum was held twelve years ago and is old, I respond with what the Constitutional Court says: the process consists of two phases, the consultative one that was held twelve years ago, and then the parliamentary one in which the House and the Senate are obliged to express themselves in relation to that referendum. I repeat, therefore, that for the League the popular will is sacred. You of the Democratic Party and I add you of the Movimento 5 Stars you had to stop the detachment of the two Municipalities with the conviction, with the services that in these years you have failed, and not with shameful political games that deny the constitutional right of their citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For this reason, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group is opposed to Mr Verducci's proposal and, therefore, calls for the bill to be discussed immediately in the Hall of Palazzo Madama. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u25	PAGE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Grassi, the rapporteur for this measure, and especially for his skill in this House. He explained perfectly, as a jurist, how the facts in the Commission went and, in particular, that the Commission itself has gone far and wide all the problems related to this measure which concerns two municipalities that intend, after having carried out a referendum in which the population participated, to join the Emilia-Romagna Region. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly the mirror of how, unfortunately, things are going on in our country. If it is true that there is the possibility, in favour of a local population through a referendum, of determining whether to stay in one region rather than another, then it is necessary to ensure that the institutions comply with the rules. Unfortunately this did not happen because, while the Emilia-Romagna Region has immediately taken note of the referendary result, the Marche Region has instead done everything to slow down the iter of the provision, even through the obstructionism and today with the proposal, through a senator, to postpone the text in the Commission, in the within of which - it has explained well the colleague Grassi - all the investigation has already been carried out. Colleagues, let's stop with this story: the referendum has been held and the people of the two municipalities concerned have already expressed themselves clearly and unequivocally. The fact that time has passed is certainly not the fault of their inhabitants, who have enormous difficulties - I have been reminded by my colleagues Malan and Barboni - to reach - for example - the nearest hospitals and, therefore, need to join that Region because everything will be simpler also in terms of the provision of services. I therefore support what Mr Arrigoni said earlier on behalf of the League. Forza Italia also expresses its absolute opposition to the return of this measure to the Commission. What has been done here is too much. There is no need for Parliament to escape its responsibilities. It is true that today is a day of mourning, because the current legislature is giving a serious blow to representative democracy by reducing its representatives with the cutting of the "softer" [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which is a very serious matter compared to the value of the Constitution. The measure under consideration, albeit to a lesser extent, is also a further blow to representative democracy. If there has been a referendum and the population of the two municipalities has expressed itself, this Parliament has a duty in the shortest possible time to express itself and to ensure that the two municipalities - as has happened for other seven in the past years - cling, as the population wants, to the Emilia-Romagna Region. We shall therefore vote with great will and, above all, with great conviction that the measure is not going back to the Commission. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u28	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I take the floor on the subject we are debating this evening to say that we here today do not have to go into the matter; we simply have to say today and say whether we are in favour of or against an additional investigation into the measure under consideration. I therefore do not want to go into the matter - I repeat - but I would like to ask myself, and perhaps even my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars who pay particular attention to the issue of direct democracy, if it is not appropriate to better understand in the Commission whether, after almost twelve and a half years, it is not appropriate to revise positions, putting the word not to us, but to the people who have to decide what destiny they want to have. In fact, dear friends and allies of the League and of Forza Italia, if for more than twelve years we have not and have not dealt with this serious problem.If for more than twelve years you have left in the drawers the referendum of these two municipalities, I wonder if there is a hurry today to implement that referendum, which had a clearly different electoral body than today, with socio-economic and geographical conditions completely different from the current ones. I do not know what the people of these municipalities want today. However, since I believe in democracy, I believe that it is right to refer the measure back to the Commission, to carry out in-depth studies and, above all, to give the two municipalities concerned the floor so that today - not twelve years ago - they can speak. This is the position of Brothers of Italy who - I repeat - does not want to enter into the matter, does not want to replace the citizens of the two municipalities, but wants to give them the word, with the possibility of expressing today the will to remain in the Marches or to move to the Emilia-Romagna Region. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u31	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I listened a moment ago to Mr Arrigoni della Lega saying that the 5 Star Movement would be blackmailed by the Democratic Party to the question of the referral of this measure to the Commission, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call on Mr Arrigoni to say that there is no blackmail here, as there was - if I may say so - when the League asked for the text of the Lighthouse Convention to be referred back to the Commission for consideration and further consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On that occasion our leader, Senator Patuanelli, declared that he had no problem going directly to the Chamber; however, he agreed to the request for further study of the Lega Motivated - I believe - by the fact that the Convention had not been signed by all countries. My invitation, therefore, is to clear the field from any possibility of blackmail and from the reference to binding situations, unbearable and betrayed citizens, because all this belongs to a rhetoric that does not adhere instead to the dignity and strength of the referendum institute that, like Movimento 5 Stars, we have never put and will never question. Of course, you are asking here with great reasonableness - we are not asking for it, but we are not going to oppose it - to return to the Commission because obviously this measure, which was born under the previous Executive, must also address in the new Government a discussion on the composition of the mutual points of view. It does not seem scandalous to me: the rapporteur's reasons have also been explained, the point of view of which is the result of the investigation and is evidence of what happened in the Commission. We do not deny our vote that, after being in favour of the Commission, it will probably be in this House as well. However, it does not seem to me to be true of the speech we are trying to get the measure referred back to the Commission as something big, such as a betrayal or a serious wrong against the citizens. I would also like to point out that at the time a framework came out in the Commission that was not quite linear, in the sense that, despite everything, there was a part of citizenship - it was no longer what asked for the referendum, because a number of people objectively were no longer there - that they were against it. The Commission therefore did not come up with a complex framework: the complex framework was there. A decision has been taken and today we are calling for a referral back to the Commission. Nothing strange, no blackmail and great respect for Article 132 of the Constitution, which we claim. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Parrini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u32	Pursuant to Rule 93 (6) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the suspensive question raised by Senator Verducci. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u35	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in this House because I believe it is right and proper that the tragic death of the chosen agent Pierluigi Rotta and the simple agent Matteo Demenego should be remembered and honoured by the Senate of the Republic - as you have already done - in the name of all Italian citizens, but also by those who, like me, are from Trieste. In my city we followed with anguish the first moments of a fact that we believed impossible. We were incredulous in the face of the confirmation of a shooting in the center, inside the police station; stunned we went away, as we became aware of the two broken lives, of a third wounded policeman and other possible victims avoided by the determined intervention of the agents gathered. Hardly could the blow have been more painful. The whole city was struck at the heart, wounded in the feeling of community that those two young people represent, because their uniforms are the concrete point of contact between the institutions and the citizen; they are the protection from threats, the defense that we invoke when we are in danger. Pierluigi Rotta and Matteo Demenego were the face of the State among us. Recently fallen, the city has spread an empty dismay, like a wave, a very heavy and almost intolerable silence. Trieste immediately responded compact and civil. The colleagues of all the Forces of Order have brought their mourning and affection before the police station; the families have accompanied the children to bring a flower or a design and solidarity has spread through Italy, with a contagion made of small gestures and public demonstrations. I want to thank the commissioner of Trieste, Giuseppe Petronzi, who even in the most dramatic phases was a very strong reference for his men and - I would like to say - for all the Trieste. We did everything we could to make them feel our closeness. Security is neither on the right nor on the left. Our Government will rightly value the commitment and dedication of women and men of the police forces and of all law enforcement forces. This is a commitment that we must make so that the attention remains alive and concrete, in no uncertain terms. But in these days we do not tread with the tumult of words the due respect that we are all called to have in the face of death: we allow them to overcome modesty and piety; at least we wait for the children to be returned to mothers for extreme rites. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u38	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, there are still four children missing in our sea, the Mediterranean Sea, a few miles from our coast. And they have been missing for too many hours, President, and we know that they will not return, that they will not embrace their brothers, their fathers and their mothers, many of whom are still missing; some bodies have been recovered without life in the shipwreck that took place on Monday night. They will have at least spared the torment of this umpteenth tragedy, of this umpteenth ecatombe, of this endless shame that includes another day of mourning for the Mediterranean, for Africa, for Europe, for Italy. President, we must thank the Italian Coast Guard for having saved - as it could, as we read in the terrible chronicle of those hours - lives on that night so dark, with the sea in storm, and avoiding that the pain was even greater and more unsustainable. However, we must know and say, Mr President, that this massacre is also due to wrong laws, to the criminalisation of non-governmental organizations, to the kidnapping of their ships. She is the daughter of a blind and counterproductive policy that has interrupted the international rescue and rescue missions, which has cleared the humanitarian corridors and instead entrusted the management of part of the flows to the notorious Libyan Coast Guard, of which some exponents, including the notorious Bija, are accused by the UN and the International Court of Justice of The Hague of being the leader of the slave trade up and down the Mediterranean. It is said that they should not have been on that boat: it is true, but they pretend not to see where they fled and why they did it: from unspeakable wars and tortures, often armed by the West; from famines, environmental cataclysms due to the Western model of development; from lager camps, like that in Libya, hypocritically tolerated by the West. We have a moral duty, rather than a political duty, to erase wrong laws, those which are hypocritically defined as security decrees and instead are inhuman laws because they prevent relief, violate and scar the laws of man and the code of the sea. Those laws don't bring security, but they cause death and lawlessness. In those scattered children, who will remain children for eternity, in the bodies of men and women, with no more life in their wombs, there are also us, there is a piece of us, because each of us is a migrant in search of future and possibility and we cannot ignore anything. We can't close our eyes. We cannot ignore, Mr President, because those who do so are accomplices. We can't and we don't want to be once more, never again. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u41	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to ask you to be careful because I am going to have a hard time making this speech. We are to three women victims of feminicide this year only in Bergamo, my province; ten in three years and thirteen attempts only in a Province. I'm not that strong! I'm scared, Mom. So wrote the eldest of the last victim's children, two days ago, sixteen years old. The mother is Zina Solonari, mother three times, killed at thirty-six years by a crazy husband, who surprised her on the doorstep on her return from a work of waitress who did not want her to perform, frightened by her autonomy. When a woman is killed the victim is not only her: with her her children become victims, sentenced to a life sentence, without bars and without penalty, to the most unjust of penalties, by innocent people. Hi, Mom, you're far away now, too far away. It's all so unfair. (...) I'm in pieces. (...) You were the most important woman in my life. Zina: two complaints (on 23 September and 2 October) did not help to save her life. Mom. A beautiful word that now, when I hear it, makes me stop my breath. Sixteen, twelve and eight years old, the age of his children. This night a part of me is dead: a bad word, horrible I would say. I wanted to wake up and have you next to me. We have a committee of inquiry into feminicide, reforms have been adopted and the code red has been enacted and we intervene every time a woman dies. Well to adopt reforms but, if they are at no cost, without economic and human resources, they risk remaining on paper alone. We have and have the courage today this Government to give up - for example - the income of citizenship - for young people, in our opinion, it is immoral - and devotes resources to the staff of the Forces of Order and the courts, as well as to the associations for their seats, so that they can activate dedicated sections. Words are zero. We shall be tabling an amendment to the draft budget law and I hope with all my heart that it will be supported by all of us. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u44	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak today in this House - as I did last July - for a lack and negligence of the Sicilian regional government chaired by Mr Nello Musumeci. Unfortunately, we are reaching the last useful date - on October 27th - in order to be able to heal and make the landscape plan of Ambito 9 in the Province of Messina in force again. It seems that, to date, President Musumeci has not yet healed this vice - apparently, only one signature is missing - and he is not going to do so. This would reveal an area very depressed from an environmental point of view such as that of the Valley of the Apple, which instead needs special attention. Moreover, it seems that the regional government has lost the necessary documentation for the reclamations of the SIN of Milazzo, Gela and Priolo, thus putting at risk 64 million financing for the rehabilitation. I believe that these two shortcomings are serious and we hope that the regional government will soon be able to deal with them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u47	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, today's speech is intended to turn the spotlight on an unfortunate affair, which persists in the territory I represent and which concerns the health service concerning vaccinations. We are therefore talking about a necessary service, whose malfunction determines files and exhausting expectations. Above all, I would like to point out that the users of this service are infants, children and young people and that the files are often in vain, already at 5 a.m. This is what happens in my territory. I refer, in this case, to the vaccine clinic of San Giuseppe Jato, which hosts, apart from the municipality itself, the Municipalities of San Cipirello, Camporeale and, intermittently, Piana degli Albanesi. This is an emblematic case of an entire Region, Sicily. It's a real emergency. This service is provided on Wednesdays only from 9 am to 12 am, but often the closure is also anticipated and there is a lack of staff, since the one available is characterized by the presence of only one doctor and two nurses. In addition, the availability of vaccines for all and the lack of hydrophilic cotton to disinfect syringes needles are added. It is clear that this state of affairs affects Article 32 of the Constitution of the Italian Republic, which protects health as a fundamental right for the individual and of interest to the community. However, I would like to focus on the last part, which reads as follows: In no case may the law violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that a parliamentary question will follow this speech to the Minister of Health, to understand how he intends to proceed, and also the Member of the Health Commission, Salvatore Siracusa, is already doing so. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u50	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak in order to report what happened at the sitting of 25 September 2019. You will remember how, during the speeches at the end of the session, colleagues senators of the League occupied the benches of the Government, in order to prevent the proper conduct of parliamentary activity. Once I took the floor, I drew the attention of the President-in-Office and Senator Alberto Bagnai to an extremely sensitive issue, that of the seismic safety of school buildings. I did so in view of the academic capacity of Senator Bagnai, as the delicate problem also concerns university construction. Subsequently, Senator Bagnai intervened on a personal basis, using gravely offensive expressions, so much so as to arouse - for example - the indignation of Senator Zanda - I thank him - intervened later, unfortunately in the silence of the Presidency. In particular, Senator Bagnai, addressing me, stated the following: We have had from a colleague of his Group a clear indication of what is the profession of colleague Di Nicola in Italy, that is that of journalist: propalator of false news. Now, there is one aspect in Senator Bagnai's statements which I consider to be detrimental to my personal goodness, but there is also, above all, one which is detrimental to the dignity and credibility of information and to the role it plays in a democratic system. It is no coincidence that the Italian National Press Federation also intervened on the matter, with a note of 26 September, stressing that the statements in question were discrediting of the work of an entire professional category. As far as the accusations against me are concerned, I have already sent my lawyers to proceed to the appropriate premises to examine possible defamatory profiles. However, because of the authority of the seat and the sacredness of this Parliamentary Assembly, in which the serious accusations have been used, I have also submitted an application to the Senate Presidency for the establishment of an Investigation Commission under Rule 88 of the Senate Rules, which investigates and judges on the basis of the accusations brought to me by Senator Bagnai. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u51	Nicola's Senator, I take note of that, but I have not yet received your request, which I will consider.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u52	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-10-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-152.ana.u53	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 9 October, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 1.737 p.m.)
