ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00065 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laus and other Senators, 1-00066 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other Senators, 1-00069, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and 1-00088, presented by Senator Romeo and other Senators, on the TAV Torino-Lion. I call Senator Nastri to explain motion No 69.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u5	Mr President, as has long been known, the trans-European networks represent a set of integrated, fundamental and strategic transport infrastructure designed to support the single market, ensure the free movement of goods and people and, above all, strengthen the growth, employment and competitiveness of the European Union. In this respect, the new guidelines of the European Union provide for the creation of a network that is structured in practice at two levels. There is a comprehensive network, possibly to be set up by 2050, which aims to ensure full coverage of the territory of the European Union, and a core network, which will be implemented by 2030 and is based on a corridor approach that will include at least three different modes of transport across at least three Member States and also provide access to maritime ports. In this context, the core network is divided into nine main corridors, four of which are of particular interest to Italy. One is the Mediterranean corridor that crosses North Italy from West to East. To this end, the completion of the linking infrastructure is certainly essential in order to reduce the Italian infrastructure deficit, to support the competitiveness of our companies - as I said before - and to ensure the integration of Italy into European development. The new railway axis between Italy and France - and, more specifically, between Turin and Lyon - falls, as we know, within the Mediterranean corridor. We of Brothers of Italy, together with the vast majority of Italians, have always been promoters and supporters of the TAV, whose main objectives are of different types. There are certainly economic objectives, to make the train more competitive for the transport of people and goods; of an environmental nature, to reduce the number of TIR on the roads; of a social character, to better connect with each other and to enhance the different areas within our country. Among the main advantages of Torino-Lione it is necessary to add above all the halving of the times of journey of the passengers, the increase of the ability in the transport goods and the reduction of the number of trucks. Today there would be about 600,000 less trucks on the road, among other things also in view of the delicate Alpine environment. The most recent data show that every year between Italy and France passes about 3 million heavy vehicles and, if the forecasts of the Observatory on the impact of the new line were respected, after eight years from its opening there would be a transfer of 20 million tons from road to rail and 38 million after thirty years. For that date, if the flow of goods between Italy and France remained stable at today's values, that is to say around 40 million tons, it could be absorbed to 95 percent from the railway, thus determining a reduction of approximately 3 million trucks that cross the border. Beyond any evaluation related to formal issues, it is well known that, as this is an international treaty, Italy's accession to the project cannot certainly be deleted or modified with a pen section. Every day of delay penalizes are not the Regions of the North that are crossed by the line, but also the whole Italy. It is not even appropriate to remember how the country's credibility is at stake in criminal matters for Italy and, above all, the credibility of the country is at stake. As far as penalties are concerned, some EUR 833 million has been mentioned today. With regard to the credibility of the country then, it cannot pass at an international level that, whenever the Government changes, the treaties can be changed or even replaced. Certainly Italy doesn't make us look good. I would add that national and Community sources have estimated in 3.4 billion euros the burdens on Italy in case of the definitive suspension of the FTA, considering the costs related to the termination of contracts, the contracts already started, the restoration of the excavations; clearly, besides all this, the penalties would also be borne by Italy, as I said before. Failure to implement it would also require the safety of the more than 26 kilometres already excavated and the adaptation of the Frejus track. Nor is it appropriate to mention the jobs involved in this work and the risk of creating further unemployment: all this would create serious social problems. The main problem, in addition to those I mentioned earlier, is that Italy would remain cut off from the roads of European development, for the benefit of links to the North of the Alps. Similarly, let us not forget that - as I have said before - the ports of Trieste and Genoa would risk to see to diminish their traffics, losing the opportunity of a vital connection with the markets of Central Europe. You see, therefore, that the problems are more than one. The same applies to the Novara Interporto, a crucial hub for the North-South and East-West routes, which cross right there. Let us not forget that the uncertainties of the Government about the destiny of the work have led to the birth of many movements of opinion, composed of the major associations of categories of the country, and therefore not only Piedmontese, but also national, and by numerous local administrators who have manifested, on several occasions, the will and the maximum support to the realization of the work: this should have made the Government reflect and induce it to confirm the TAV as an important element for the development of our country. Starting at the end of my speech, the requests that the Brothers of Italy Group asks the Government are mainly two. First, we ask the Government to adopt the initiatives of competence so that it can hold, under the conditions of law, an advisory referendum on the realization of the project TAV Torino-Lione on the same date in the regions concerned by the national route of the Mediterranean corridor: we speak of Piedmont, Lombardy, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. Secondly, we call for all initiatives to be taken to enable Telt to proceed immediately with the publication of invitations to tender for the construction of the base tunnel. You cannot continue, with the pull and the spring of all the months past; one day the TAV project is realized, one is not done, the other is not understood. Now the government is trying to find a solution that would be yet another novelty, that is a mini-TAV that nobody clearly knows anything about. It is also correct to talk about numbers, and on the point you can't cheat. The cost of the cross-border tunnel is EUR 8.6 billion, as certified by a third entity, of which 40% is borne by the European Union; 35% - about EUR 3 billion - is borne by Italy and 25% by France. Not only that: Europe has made itself ready, precisely these days, to increase its share. Italy cannot afford to stop because of the stomachache of the Movimento 5 Stars. It is, President, a clearly demagogic prejudice against the progress and development of our country. Brothers of Italy will do everything possible to give continuity to a work that we consider fundamental and strategic for our country. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u6	I call Senator Laus to explain motion 65 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the events of the past months have clearly shown that the Government does not have a precise and unambiguous line on the TAV project, or rather how it has too many. That means not having any. The confusion reigns supreme between the two parties of government who, as in a ruthless game of force, continue to keep the point. On the one hand the League seems to push for the yes; on the other, there is the mandatory and categorical no of the Movimento 5 Stars. Minister Toninelli treats the work as useless and harmful. Premier Conte chooses not to choose and, by virtue of his role as guarantor, he simply continues to take note of the will of his political supporters, on an issue so important for economic reasons and international relations. Don't you think that, at this point, Italians have the right to know what you think about the TAV? Do you not think it is necessary, appropriate and fair for you to tell us in the House of Parliament, the main forum for institutional debate, what are you going to do about this? Don't you think it's time to stop evading the questions you never wanted or - at this point - able to answer? There are many questions left unanswered. How much will be spent if the work is completed? How much are the costs in case of withdrawal? How much are the penalties in case of non-completement? You have ignored our questions and continue to do so irresponsiblely. Today you should instead start giving answers: you owe it to the Italians and also to the role you play. Assumptions of responsibility are passages of political life; it is not by postponing them that they last in time, that they go far and become credible. It is easier to support the government when sugar is distributed, but it is more complicated when it comes to political responsibilities: isn't it, colleagues? The tactic is clearly to waste time. However, the appointment of 11 March is due shortly, by which time the Board of Directors of TELT (Tunnel euralpin Lyon Turin) must unblock the calls for €2.5 billion for the base tunnel, or the loss of €300 million in European funding. Even if these calls can be revoked within six months - as Minister Toninelli has seraphically stated - there is a real risk of losing European funding, of having to return the funds already granted and of being excluded from the allocation for the next five years: it is not a small thing. To waste time, to continue in the game of postponement, to look only at individual electoral interests is the only strategy that can use the government, in addition to that of closures. They close large works such as the TAV or the Third Pass, they close the yards to fix roads, underpasses, airport runways, urban railways, metropolitans and bridges, while a fantomatic decree unlocks yards has difficulties to come to light and the same fate is the turn of the reform of the code of contracts. Everything's stuck. Fear grows and the economy slows down. The government always arranges for closure, never to start anything. In the face of this impasse, the European Commission has made its voice heard, pointing out that the Turin-Lion line is an important project not only for France and Italy but for Europe as a whole. What we are witnessing is a crisis of credibility, an inevitable result, given the lack of clear and decisive measures of economic and industrial policy. It is a crisis of credibility certainly accentuated by the position taken with regard to the Turin-Lyon line. Not to make the TAV means not only to give up important jobs and investments, which can boost employment, development and GDP, but above all to condemn our country to a distrust on the part of the business world and to a marginal role in international markets. An increasing number of citizens and businesses, workers, associations, administrators, mayors, political representatives from all over Italy are calling, with increasing strength, for the completion of the new Turin-Lyon railway line. The truth, now undeniable, is that the real obstacles to the realization of the work are to be attributed to the vertical fall of the consents of the Movimento 5 Star towards the other governmental partner, testified by the recent regional elections, in addition to the approach of the European elections and, above all, the impossibility to keep faith to all the mirabulous promises made in the electoral campaign, that remove to the Movement any intention to do what is expected to be the best for the country and instead do what is useful to the Movement itself. We went from statements that alluded to the desire to find technical solutions, with cost-benefit analysis, to phrases of the type: We will find a political agreement, without realizing that not only did we fall into contradiction with what has always been said, but that we confirm what we have been saying for a long time, namely that the solution to the TAV question is all political. Other than cost-benefit analysis: just make fun of Italians! I wonder if, if there had been no street mobilization of oppositions and citizens with respect to this irresponsible attitude of yours, the TAV would today be a political node to be dissolved. The cost-benefit analysis on the TAV Torino-Lione has been the subject of heavy criticism for the serious logical defects with which it was carried out. It has been based on data dating back to 2011; it has been focused almost entirely on the analysis of the alleged costs of the work, not taking into account the social welfare objectives expected from its realization in terms of greater interconnection of the Country with the system of the European Trans-European Networks-Transport (TEN-T) networks, of increase of the commercial exchanges and of greater mobility for the citizens. The same order of the engineers of Turin, reappropriating himself in the role of technicians that belongs to him, speaks in his counter-analysis cost-benefits of errors and simplifications that have reduced the benefits and increased the costs. The attempt was to demonstrate, outside the rules governing the drafting of a correct cost-benefit analysis, that the work will cost far more than anticipated. The document does not assess whether the work achieves the purpose for which it was decided and does not calculate analytically and comprehensively the monetary benefits (environment, public health, safety, mobility) that are the basis of any public investment. A second draft of the analysis requested by the President of the Council of Ministers, in view of the criticisms raised on the text, reduced the negative impact of the work from 7.6 billion to 2.5 billion, confirming the inadequacy and logical defects contained in the first cost-benefit dossier. It is clear, therefore, that the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport would have submitted to Parliament and the country, as well as to the French Government and the European Union, a cost-benefit analysis which was clearly unfounded and subject to subsequent adjustments by the President-in-Office of the Council who, in order to emerge from the situation of evident contrast between the political forces of the majority, recently expressed a positive opinion on the hypothesis of realization of the so-called mini-TAV, supporting the proposal made by the League as an original project of the TAV Torino-Lion. To conclude, Mr President, the speed of economic response and the competitiveness of our country also depend to a large extent on the realization of important public investments. On the major infrastructure projects is measured the ability of a government to look to the future and equip the country with a system connected, integrated with the rest of Europe and capable of creating growth. Recent data from ISTAT on the development of our economy make it even more urgent to start and complete important public investments. Colleagues, it is an intervention that can affect in the coming years the growth of jobs, the rate of development of our country and no less on the credibility of our policy. You are paid to decide: you can do it and do it today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u8	I call Senator Pichetto Fratin to illustrate motion 66 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the motion No 66 (text 2) by the Forza Italia Group to give full effect to the agreement on Corridor 5, from Lisbon to Kiev. For me this is also a fairly surreal debate, because it makes me go back to when, fifteen years ago, as city councilman, I went around the various municipalities to find the point of consensus, the compensations, the crossing of the farms and, therefore, create the conditions for the Lisbon-Kiev Corridor to leave. Today, fifteen years later, we are faced with a debate that brings into play the credibility of our country. We cannot discuss the Turin-Lyon route; it is not a local route, but a choice made since 1994 by the European Union for a major railway infrastructure of the whole system of the Union, with the East-West and North-South axes. And it was Italy's choice to give development, to create opportunities for the new generations, to be richer and no more poor. That was the choice. TAV means connecting Spain, France and Italy to Kiev. We have 170 billion exchanges with the West, France and the Pyrenees. TAV can mean, in the future, going all the way to Beijing: it must not escape that China has a great infrastructure plan, which also thinks about the Silk Road. I appreciate the reasoning, which made just yesterday a part of the Government on mission in China, to carefully evaluate and share the path of the Silk Road, which provides for a Beijing-Teheran with a total allocation, on a railway plan, of 460 billion dollars and on an even larger plan, like the marine one, of a thousand billion dollars. The Turin-Lyon part of the TAV is a small piece in the middle that serves to connect and to be central to be better than others. I would like to remind you that, if this did not happen, transit would be moved where the debate was in the late 1990s and early 2000s, when Germany wanted the link on Italy not under the Alps, but on the Vienna-Monaco-Geneva route. This is where the TAV was to pass: on the route Vienna-Monaco-Geneva-Lyon. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] And it was a battle of this country, from the far right to the far left, united, because then it was understood that being in the center and not on the periphery meant really creating the conditions of development. The economies between Lyon and Trieste, overall, create 1,200 billion gross domestic product: territorially, they are among the highest in the world. But just think of the tourist advantage. We are in Rome and you could reach Paris in seven hours, using that route. What does it mean, in terms of benefit, for the Italian system? The discrimination, therefore, lies in the other choice. The question does not choose for or against the tunnel, although, however, 25-26 kilometers are already built, of the descendants, plus seven of the main. The choice is between being in the middle or the outskirts. It is in the making of the other ports, Genoa and Trieste, the natural berth of the Mediterranean traffics and between East and West. Otherwise, only with a North-South (in fact, with a South-North, in this case) would we have semi-domestic trade for Europe. We want the Italy of the new generations not to be the Italy of pensioners or of the income of citizenship, except that, without young people who pay, we go towards Venezuela. That is the reality, if we do not develop. This is why the Berlusconi Government, in 2004, ratified the first international agreements. Let me also, being Piedmontese, make a historical reference, already mentioned by my colleague Malan in recent days. Read the discussion on the construction of the Fréjus tunnel in 1857. The opposite claimed that only a few donkeys who carried little goods in Savoy and Rhône-Alpes were passing through it. Cavour told the king that if the Fréjus tunnel had not been built, it would be appropriate to transfer the capital to Genoa, because the future was in commerce. Turin realized it and in the following thirty years there was a huge development. FIAT, RAI, SIP, Venchi, SNIA were born the names that characterized the productive and industrial boom of our country. That's the figure. That's the meaning. But read also the discussion of the Parliament of Rome, which is instructive, when the opponents of the Gotthard tunnel claimed that it did not make sense that it was paid 70% by Italy, since the Gotthard tunnel was all, at 100%, in Swiss territory. This too is instructive. What were the costs and benefits, then? It was not even possible to consider, as Professor Ponti did, motorway tolls as a benefit of EUR 6,100 million. At this point, I invite you to calculate the benefit of the so-called land of fires, since there is no public cost in doing the operation: there is environmental damage. Yet, then our predecessors decided to move forward: they understood what it meant to work. From northern Italy the exodus to other countries was stopped (mainly, in those times, South America). Colleagues, there is no more to discuss: the TAV is for this country - not for Turin or Milan - the future and means development for our children and the new generations, well over 300 or 800 million euros instant, by the 20th day, and the 500 million later that would constitute an erarial damage. The failure to implement a rule of Parliament, by another vote of Parliament, is erarial damage and should be paid by the person who causes it, in this case Minister Toninelli and all those who, along with him, produce such damage. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I will end with a quote. I do not often refer to quotes, but allow me to quote Minister Tria: "Nobody will ever come to invest in Italy if the country shows that a changing Government does not belong to the pacts..." [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and the Senators Bonino and Pittella. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u10	I call Senator Patuanelli to explain motion No 88.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u11	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it has been said that there is a fear of erratic damage when it is decided to rethink a work. I'd like to know if, in this country, he's ever been scared of a state-of-the-art damage when public money was badly spent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I've never heard that reasoning. I believe there is an element of coherence and clarity on a subject which has a complex technical component and an even more complex political component. On this subject I do not want to be hypocritical: it is clear that the two forces that govern the country start from two different positions on this work, it is useless to deny it and turn around, and then there is the technical complexity. As I said, if there is an element of coherence in our action on this work - and in general on how public money is spent - it is to analyse the ways in which we spend public money and the objectives we set ourselves, as well as to assess whether the allocation of resources allows the actual achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves. Colleagues, we are not talking about 4 euros. Therefore - on this I believe that the majority is totally compact - the deepening that we wanted to do on this specific work, taking into account the many needs of the country, is necessary and should have been done very often even in the past when public resources have been spent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is passing the message of a government of no and a block the works, giving the responsibility mainly to a component of the majority, despite, however, a few days ago, have been allocated 11.3 billion euros of public resources (of course not in a year, but over 3 billion euros are previewed for the 2019 only) for a great plan of hydrogeological protection of the Country, that will certainly bring great advantages. In fact, performing works and doing jobs makes the economy, the induced and the GDP grow. Moreover, this plan will also lead to a great savings over the years, because the protection of the territory will allow to save on the costs in order to face the eventual damages caused by hydrogeological disasters. We saw recently - even last October - what happens when there is some bad weather. Thinking then about protecting our country and preventing it, I think it's a very useful thing. From this point of view, the debate also television and media that is being held on the TAV certainly has no comparison with what we should have done on that great plan protect Italy [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We've invested a lot of money on it. We were not once asked to talk about that element, while every day we are asked to talk about a small section of a cross-border corridor that does not already arrive in Lisbon (since Portugal has come out of it) and that already sees other countries that are coming out of this project. This is not because we want to block the development of Europe's infrastructure, but simply because, compared with the 1994 forecast, we have taken note of some things, including the mode of freight transport, also the potential for the development of infrastructure: I am thinking, for example, of the fact that road transport is moving much faster than rail. Compared to these issues, many countries are reflecting on whether it makes sense to continue investing large resources in works that, in fact, will produce less effects than was actually thought, even lawfully, twenty-five years ago. It has been mentioned Trieste and I know it a bit: we have doubled the volume of traffic goods on track, with equal infrastructures and regulations, simply using logistic policies, transport and intermodality that were not used before. It is in this way that the nodal exchange is produced, not by making new infrastructures. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition to the technical question, I want to make it clear here that the cost-benefit analysis was carried out by a pool of professionals who do this very job; they do not have a negative view of the work, but they simply took data that are those of 2011, because this is the correct way to report the two analyses. [[Comments from FI-BP and PD Groups.]] NENCINI (Misto-PSI). It's not like that. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, so far no one has been interrupted. Let's get this over with. Patuanelli (M5S). I think that to call a joke a study of university teachers, ordinary professors, seems to me at least censorable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The cost-benefit analysis is a given. Of course, there are choices; also in the scientific literature of the transport sciences there are academic strands that consider it permissible to include tolls and excises in the calculation, while others believe that it should not be done; these elements were already foreseen in the 2011 cost-benefit analyses of the observatory. From that point of view, there is total consistency between the cost-benefit analysis then and today. It changes that there are many more data than the trend of the transports and obviously the final data has been modified: the cost-benefit analysis tells us that that work is deeply in red, if we want to use this metaphor. After that, there is a political fact, which is the government contract that this majority has signed and that is making us do so much for this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Ripamonti]] Within that government contract we have simply included one thing: an integral redefinition of the Italy-France agreement, an integral re-debate of the project. With respect also to the interest of both countries in this work, I think there are several perplexities. Even France's position does not seem to me to be so clear. So going to redefine the whole project with France, I think it's the best thing this government can do. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u12	I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education (Domizia Lucilla) in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u13	Mr President, I believe that this morning's debate should try somehow to make an effort to bring us back to reflection and reasoning on some data. I would like to remind everyone that the project was born thirty years ago - let us remember - so for decades now we have been discussing this work, which obviously arises in a European situation and also in a geopolitical and economic-financial structure very different from the current one. We cannot pretend that the project was conceived a few years ago. Of course, all the discussions, debates, observers and adjustments that have been made over the years have always highlighted a number of fundamental problems. The fundamental question is that in reality, even in the discussion that for every great - or even media - work should be done, on the part of those who over the years governed - unfortunately - never wanted to consider the zero option. I want to say that because we are doing a discussion and an environmental impact assessment in which the zero option, for the non-implementation of the work, is never taken into account. I say that because it is a matter that also concerns other works. Everyone has therefore tried to bring water to his mill and has transformed this discussion into an ideological discussion. I want to say very clearly what the point of view we are trying to represent on this agenda is. The question is not whether or not one is prejudiced against great works. I am also in favour of the realization of great works, but those that are useful and priority for this country. In our country there are Regions, like the Abruzzo of which I am native, which have a single railroad, so everyone obviously uses on the highway and we will pay the costs also from the social and economic point of view who knows for how long. I would therefore have really wanted to dream and discuss in this House works of modernization, of great works, but of those that are absolutely priority. Let us therefore remove the scope of this debate. Returning to the question of the TAV, to the fact that I remembered that twenty-thirty years have passed, I would like to bring us back to the need to calculate well the effective scope of the goods traffic today on that East-West axis. By the way, I would like to remind everyone that the Atlantic station is already out of Portugal, not to mention the arrival in Kiev. We have seen in recent years a drastic reduction in traffic on that axis. I would like to remind everyone here that in the years 2000-2001 there had been very precise commitments, for example, on the well-known case of modernisation - I believe and hope that each of you has documented on the commitments that had been made - which should have, in the meantime, continued the debate on the TAV, led to an increase in the possibility and capacity of the existing historical line. All this has not been done, as another of the fundamental issues that should be the basis of the planning and design of any work has not been addressed, especially from the point of view of transport: I am talking about the General Transport and Logistics Plan. The problem is in fact in which network and system this work is framed. The discussion that has taken place in recent years, which unfortunately is continuing to continue in these hours, is completely out of date - so it seems to be a matter of its own - from what a civil and serious country should do, namely the basic system choices, at the general level of transport and logistics, which concern how to move. Now, in fact, the supporters of the TAV have all become ecologists, but I would like to know what are the choices to make so that the traffic of the goods can be moved from rubber to iron, because other countries have made them. I would like to remind you that, when the debate on corridors and the choice of high speed freight was started in Europe, Switzerland was also discussing the same thing, but then it made a different choice, in the sense that it did not favour corridor systems but rather network systems. It has strengthened in a massive and heavy way all the infrastructural investments on the system to net of the territory and has put in place policies that, increasing the tolls highways and the excises, have penalized - and not encouraged, like we do - the road hauliers. What is the result today? Compare the volume of traffic that is realized and is expected in Switzerland with ours: 70 percent of the goods on that axis is transported on iron, because they have made a choice of net and not of corridor, of system; while they reasoned on the works to do, they did the programming and put it in place. Instead, we started a very heated discussion about the high speed Turin-Lion along with that on the Bridge on the Strait: I would like to remind everyone, because it was the golden years of the target law, of which we still pay the consequences (because we had to go until 2016 to overcome it, except for the TAV). Those were the golden years in which it was enough for anything to pierce: you could pierce the mountains, because maybe there were other interests, so the objective law had been invented, with the general contractor, which created many problems on the procurement and subcontracting system, cutting off all small and medium-sized enterprises. We, however, in all these years have carried out the discussion on the TAV, but not a real and real discussion with the local communities nor a hypothesis of prediction and serious analysis on what would have meant to make infrastructural investments of modernization throughout the Italian territory, especially to the South. We have been deluded, now that we are talking about the silk route, among other things without realizing what is happening at international and global level with regard to goods and current requirements. For this reason I say that we are continuing to discuss a stretch practically to itself: we evoke incredible scenarios, such as the interception of the silk route, but in reality we do not want to say that there the traffic of the goods is diminished and no reference is made to a serious programming from the systemic point of view, because in the meantime we have absolutely not made policies to move the transport from the rubber to the iron. Delrio began, in the last phase, to revise the General Transport and Logistics Plan, but then enough: in all the previous years discussion on the TAV and nothing else. We are not talking about employment data, on which I must probably be confused: in this country, in the last thirty years, they must have governed the ecologists and environmentalists, so all the works have been blocked and in the building a crisis of 150,000 jobs has been created. Maybe I didn't notice; we probably commanded. That is not the case, and you know it perfectly well. The employment crisis that has arisen has occurred not only in conjunction with the general crisis, but with a certain idea of works and with a certain idea of public investment (among other things some never went well). As far as employment levels are concerned, you know better than I do how much it produces in terms of jobs to invest in small and medium-sized works that really affect the community, instead of focusing only on a great work that makes us discuss a lot and that probably corresponds to interests that are not those of this country and of the citizens but only of some well-defined lobbying. That is why we have tabled an agenda in which we call for a political decision. We all have the data; we have to decide and, as far as we are concerned, we have the zero option. Those resources must be used in another way and above all a real general plan of the transports and the logistics must finally be made, in order to make an operation of environmental sustainability and to move the traffic goods from rubber to iron. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u14	I declare the debate open. Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time allowed to me does not allow me to go into more detail, so I will say clearly that it is well known that there are different positions in our Group: as far as I am concerned, I will say straight away that they are for the achievement of high speed. I say this without inflaming myself, and I would like to motivate him with three very brief arguments. In the meantime, there is a need to confirm international agreements and, from this point of view, there is a problem of credibility. Secondly, the path chosen by the contract to make a cost-benefit analysis obviously did not work and does not work very clearly. I find the discussion we're having right now, right now, to be a little Kafkiana. Last night there was a summit that concluded nothing; it should be understood what is actually the direction of the road. I share with my colleague De Petris the idea that a transport plan should be made and I agree that this Government should have made a choice, even in the dialectic between League and Movimento 5 Stars within the majority (as the 5 Stars Leader said). There should be a priority framework and a strategy on transport and logistics planning, but there is none of this. The whole debate now comes down to the way in which the issue of consensus is handled in relation to the European elections. This is a damage to the country, even regardless of the different points of view in relation to this work. Finally, as time pushes me, it always remains a great theme: how Italy crosses the great European corridors. From this point of view, the figure that Italy is making worries me. Yesterday the OECD predicted a -0.2% GDP growth in 2019. Attention: the topic of the TAV cannot be put in contrast with the local railway system, which is in great emergency, and cannot be put in contrast with the indispensable works of modernization. We are retreating from previous years with regard to quotas for freight traffic on iron. We need a strategy, but there is no trace of this, not even in the debate between the political forces of the majority, let alone in this House the opportunity to debate. This is my position, which seemed fair and correct to me to point out.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u16	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u17	Mr President, while I welcome Mr Stefani's presence in the Chamber, I would like to say that I find it paradoxical to discuss such an important subject in the complete absence of Minister, Deputy Minister and Undersecretaries of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. I think respect for the House should have... [[Comments from the M5S Group]] I don't see any representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. But there is! (From the Government's desk on the [[Undersecretary of State Dell'Orco mentions the address of Senator Nencini]] There is. That's great, that's great. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I'm gonna put on my glasses and apologize, Mr. Undersecretary. I'm gonna be okay with it now. I am still sorry, but it does not change the subject because, as my colleague Errani mentioned, we are discussing an issue on which the Government has not yet made known its final opinion. I have to bring to the attention of this House, not one, but two issues, and I will do so briefly. First of all, I would like to stress one aspect which has absolutely not been mentioned here and which has two heads. The first question: nobody said that to block the work it is necessary to repeal two laws, No 71 of 2014 and No 1 of 2017. Until you touch these laws, the blockage of the work becomes impossible. The second question concerns the cost and benefit checks that are claimed - the last to be done by the parent company Patuanelli - have only been done recently. It is completely false: the first dates back to 2003 and the European Union made it, on the contrary the EIB (a financial assessment of the incipit of the works) and the second in 2008 and was the protagonist of it the deputy minister Castelli, Legist, in the government Berlusconi-c. There is another issue that has been touched on, but that I intend to develop in the time I still have available: it is the political-logistic question, the real point around which it is worth discussing. Today we read that the Italian Government was the first of the European Union to join the Chinese imperial project on the Silk Road. Very well: if we participate in a project of this nature without defining what is our strategy of foreign and commercial policy and, above all, of the logistic network with which Italy presents itself, we risk to adhere to a megaproject completely losing our autonomy. It is not true that at government level there is no logistics plan; it exists, at least as far as previous governments are concerned. This government should let them know what they think and what their position is. It is not true that the traffic goods in the alpine arc has been reduced: in fifty years it has passed in 2018 from 20 to 220 million tons of goods in transit. There is therefore no doubt that there is a logistical problem for Italy. The final question, then, is what is the strategy that the Italian Government intends to put in place in order to be competitive and to be in the heart of Europe, above all by maintaining its responsibilities on European networks, which have seen us signatories and subscribers with governments of completely different nature and characteristics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u18	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by clearing up some of the issues we are discussing here. The problem we are talking about is not going from Turin to Lyon, a topic raised by some biased detractors to minimize the work. It is not a local problem, even if it becomes a local problem later and I will explain at the end of the surgery why. The question is, first of all, national and then European. The theme on which we are thinking is the Trans-European Network-Transport (TEN-T) Mediterranean corridor, on which 18% of the European population and 17% of European GDP insist. If we erase the hallway, it doesn't end there. If you don't build the TAV line between Turin and Lyon, you get the interest of Germany with the Budapest-Lyon passing north of the Alps avoiding Italy. It is not very different from what happened with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) issue, when Azerbaijan, even for geopolitical reasons, decided not to go north, after what happened with Ukraine, but from the south, favoring Italy instead of Germany. We'd be in exactly the same condition. Secondly, not only do we favour another state like Germany, but we damage our country by losing more than €800 million in European funding, of which €300 million immediately and by running out TELT notices. These arguments have already been addressed and not only here: Vice Prime Minister Salvini, in fact, yesterday said that it costs more than just doing it. I stop at this because this is functional to the reasoning that I am developing. I agree with Salvini also when he explains that the infrastructure is needed for growth and that the TAV is safer, faster, cheaper and less polluting (but also on this I will arrive later), arguing in line with my thoughts. He also has a few more concerns because he saw yesterday the OECD GDP forecasts, which today have been published in the newspapers, that we will move from 0.9 to -0.2% in 2019. We inform you that this is called recession and to this some answer you have to try to give it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In addition, in 2020 from +0.9 we will move to +0.5. Perhaps our colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars are not so concerned about this data: Maio calls them "numericini" and then it is not said that it is so clear to them the value of zero in relation to the comma, since in the maneuver of the budget law in the deficit-GDP ratio has gone from 2,4 to 2.04 with a nonchalance that made shudder, thinking perhaps that the Italians were a bit silly and did not grasp this game of the three cards. Thirdly, to say no to the TAV means - it has been remembered even now - not only having to change two Italian laws, but also violating two European regulations and, above all, it involves the unilateral cancellation by Italy of a treaty, which is why there are no precedents. The issue of credibility is serious in Europe because credibility then brings respect. We risk losing all this, not to mention what was ventilated last night and which is reported in the newspapers this morning. I am referring to the so-called fading clause. Let's start the calls TELT for 2.3 billion euros with the possibility to revoke them within six months. I understand that this gets you over the European elections, but with what dignity can we then sit around a table in Europe? I remind you of what happened on the banks, so I also take the opportunity to say a word against the imaginative reconstruction made yesterday by the Undersecretary Villarosa. Moreover, I inform him that the intervention on the first four banks was done before there was the transposition of the bank recovery and resolution directive (BRRD) and that the acceleration in November 2015 was done precisely to prevent the application of the bail in, which never happened. The bail in has never been applied because in different cases we have succeeded, thanks to the credibility gained by ministers like Padoan, to make us respect. Credibility, seriousness, respect for the principle of continuity of administrative action: these must be our points of reference. You are destroying this heritage, which is not yours, but the whole country. If these things are clear, then we must say so. We must say this with the same clarity with which Minister Tria, in a television show a few days ago, clearly admitted - these are his words - that no one will ever come to invest in Italy if the country shows that with a change of government you no longer agree: you change contracts, change the laws and make them retroactive. That's what the Minister of Economics said. Let's inspire him. The fourth point, that of cost-benefit analysis, is a little particular. We know that cost-benefit analysis is an important tool for making public debate on works more transparent. At a time when it is necessary to avoid waste of taxpayers' money, determining how to allocate it is certainly crucial. Let us leave aside the harsh criticism of the report of the working group led by Professor Ponti, who in recent days have filled the newspapers and television broadcasts, even if, from my point of view, a commission such as that, without having to stand up to impartial judge, perhaps should not even behave like a lawyer, who must demonstrate the client's thesis. We are talking about the cost-benefit analysis as such, or rather about the analyses because, as has been clearly shown, there are two, which also present rather discordant data. The first, shown - it is said - to the French, before they saw it Parliament and a part of the Government itself, speaks of a negative impact of 6.995 million euros. The second, requested by President Conte, reduced the negative impact to 2,225 million. Already the difference is considerable, but reading the reports captures elements that can only worry us. We respect the authority of those who have laid them down, but there is a fundamental question about the treatment of taxes and tolls. In fact, it is pointed out that the decrease in revenues for the State is born from the decrease in excise duties related to road transit and the decrease in revenues of motorway tolls for operators. At this point I ask myself another question: is it positive or not the shift from rubber to iron? It is clear that this is a political question. There is, however, another element that is even more strange. No TAVs always claim that they spend a lot of money for a work that will be used by a few. The report says, however, that the more the work attracts traffic, the more it is wasted, if one considers the consequences. There is, therefore, a truly insane contradiction; in fact, bringing to the extreme consequences this reasoning, even if the State gave it to us would lose us, starting from what is contained in that analysis. Some people have argued these things better than me, but they can't help but jump in the eye. Above all, I wonder: has anyone considered the effects of reducing excise duties and tolls on the reduction of taxes paid by the citizens involved? Here too we expect an answer. The analysis has been built at European level, but it will have a negative effect on the Italian level. Above all, the authors themselves of the cost-benefit analysis, in this claudative report, do not take into account the broader assessments. I used to refer to the positive environmental impact of the shift from rubber to iron; now I also refer to the macroeconomic effects that can lead to the development of new industrial initiatives along its entire path. With this in mind, I would like to introduce the last point. At first I said that there was no local dimension: the TAV is not a local problem, but it can become a local problem. This is because the economic crisis, which seemed to be going through, is coming to the fore. Personally, knowing the importance of 'export for Regions like Piedmont, I will never review the idea that Turin can be a high point of the map of Italy. While the Italian development was once based on the logic of the industrial triangle Genova-Milan-Turin, recent studies (in particular the Giorgio Rota report) have shown that future development passes through the image of the sect: Turin-Milan-Bologna-Florence-Rome and Turin, in this case, remains a point at the top left. If then we are to think about our future, we must also think about issues concerning future vision. When I read that Guido Montanari, deputy mayor of Turin, says that the TAV does not exist, that the future is not to carry washing machines, but people and ideas, I answer that the problem is not even numbers anymore, it is not the laughable cost-benefit analysis; the problem is the idea of the future that we have. A future that dangerously resembles the near passing; maybe it was the remote past, the one mentioned by Pichetto Fratin with Cavour, which provided for the construction of the tunnel of the Frejus in 1861. In conclusion, I think that politicians cannot all be statesmen, but they must think of future generations first; they must not be pollists with the need to get out of the contingency, with the will to look at what the citizens want at that time: they must go back to having vision. I think that the Movimento 5 Stars and the League have created a Government that is an "ATI," to be understood, however, not as a temporary association of enterprises, but of interest. In the Government contract it is written: With regard to the high speed line Turin-Lion in the application of the agreement between Italy and France (...) we undertake to discuss the project in full; it is an oxymoron. But this ATI, in fact, ends up being a jam put in the container of the government contract. The jam started to ferment. You want some advice? Open the jar before the fermentation gases blow it up. Think of the future of the country instead of the European elections: the PD does not ask you, not only the squares, the trade associations and the representatives of the productive activities, especially the future generations, those who would pay the fruit of your mistakes. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u20	Mr President, let us start with the cost-benefit analysis of the Turin-Lyon AV/AC line. Speaking in the general debate, I would like to make a few points, pointing out that my political position is that expressed by Senator De Petris' agenda, i.e. the zero option. As a first consideration, I would like to say that the policy behind a cost-benefit analysis is truly surreal, almost ridiculous, because a cost-benefit analysis can make you say exactly what you want. So much so that there are two of them and each of them says one thing contrary to the other and, in my opinion, each of them says right and wrong things at the same time. Let us think, for example, about the externalities related to CO2. There is no information on the price of CO2 ranging from £30 to £120 per tonne, according to a 2010 estimate by the Court of Auditors, up to the current estimates by the European Commission, up to the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, which states that the more the carbon budget falls, the more the price of CO2 is splashing to infinity. That is reasonable. The carbon budget is the one to be considered when deciding to invest part of it to achieve something that has a decarbonization project. Relying on these numbers, born of analyses that, by their very nature, are not exact, is madness. Even the exact sciences don't do this. To quote a nobody, even Albert Einstein first assumed that the force of gravity was a byproduct of the curvature of space-time and then searched for numerical confirmations, not the opposite. This must be taken into account. Furthermore, the cost-benefit analysis is based on market analysis. The projections of the free market on the flows of goods; where is the policy? It is neither behind the cost-benefit analysis nor behind the parameters of that analysis. In a cost-benefit analysis we first put political planning, that is, what we want to do with the 57 kilometers of the tunnel under the mountain, and then we go to see if the numbers are right or wrong. Another reflection: the cost-benefit analysis has given a negative outcome in economic terms. Welcome. Look, it's always like this. Do you think that the AlpTransit project, with the four tunnels (Lötschberg, Zimmerberg, Ceneri and Gottardo), has given a positive cost-benefit analysis? No. The Channel Tunnel? No. The Turin-Salerno high-speed line? No. Local public transport by public transport has a negative cost-benefit analysis, they are all at a loss. On the basis of this principle, then, we should not implement buses. Local and rail public transport has no market - apart from the high-speed line -, is at a loss and a cost-benefit analysis would result in a negative outcome. Another thing: in the reasons for no and yes there is always an unacceptable dualism. Who says no, seeks the reasons in support of his thesis and the same does those who say yes, always without a design. In the time available to me, I want to compare quickly with something similar to the present case, namely the Gotthard base tunnel. It is a double barrel tunnel, with a service tunnel, 57 kilometers long, which is part of a design called Alp Transit. This allows me to connect to the question of why the historical line of the Val di Susa is underused. It is underused because the market has established that rail freight is not convenient. I believe it: the maximum load is 1,500 tons in triple traction and therefore a train of 3,600 tons in single traction cannot pass. Modern freight trains, however, have a load of 3,600 tons in single traction and therefore it is clear that that tunnel is not adequate. Secondly, there is the problem of silhouettes: it is true that the tunnel has been adapted, but the main silhouette cannot be changed, i.e. you can't do a lifting, because they scratched the bottom. There is at least one type of freight wagon that doesn't fit, because of an interbinary issue. It is the same reason that those who take the high speed between Milan and Rome at a certain point are on a train that goes 250 kilometers per hour, because the interbinario goes down from 4.40 meters (up to Chiusi), to 4 meters (from Chiusi to Rome): this is the reason why the trains in that stretch must go slower. Thirdly, there is the issue of safety in the tunnel: if it is true that almost all intermodal trains pass there, there is no longer enough dock to evacuate in case of emergency. Those who think of the no must also reason on this and those who think of the yes must do the same. So saturation is not economically sustainable, but the real issue is another one. Working with a true design should be said that, in case another basic tunnel is offered, it is not the market that decides whether to pass the goods, but it must be the policy that decides to remove the goods from the road transport, to take it to the railroad and thus go to saturation. That's a benefit. In the cost-benefit analysis, the market is left to decide. I therefore wonder what we are doing here: let us put in our place the presidents of the board of directors of the companies, who will act according to the market. In yesterday's sitting, Mr Bagnai rightly said that the market is not the equator of last resort, but it is a variable, which must come after choices that we must make at the political level. This is the thing to reason on and therefore this type of work must be framed in a design, as the previous speaker rightly said. Beyond my position on the zero option, I urge you to think about these basic parameters, because politics must come sooner and later. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Biti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u21	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you can rest assured that today I have no invective to propose against the government. Mr President, it is clear to everyone that today we are not only talking about the TAV line, but about the credibility of the Government and the majority, which is measured not only with the consent of the Italian people, but also in the international assembly. What consideration do other countries - the European countries and all those who want to invest in our country - have if we are still discussing a project on the subject twenty years later? What credibility does the country have? Mr President, would you come to invest in a country which, 20 years later, has not yet gained its opinion? I have listened to my colleagues with great respect, but we are still doing the tests, we are still doing measurements to understand whether it is worth it or not. Do you realize that the world is going so fast? In the Nordic countries, 10 kilometres long bridges are built over two years and we are here to discuss, because the government has changed and therefore, every time the government changes, as in the worst countries of South America, the choices made and approved by international treaties are called into question. This is the drama that Italy is experiencing. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am sorry that the Leader of the 5 Star Movement is not present in the Chamber, which I highly esteem for his intellectual honesty, which today has manifested itself when he declared, in this formal assembly, that there is a clear split between the Movimento 5 Stars and the League. The problem, my dear colleague Patuanelli, is that this split is not only paid by you in terms of consent: your immobilism will pay 60 million Italians and we want to denounce it today. This immobilization blocks Italy. I regret to mention the chairman of the Technical Committee, Professor Ponti, but how can we give credibility to a professor who told us yesterday that the cost-benefit analysis does not include the penalties that must be paid in case the work is not carried out? We're looking at a faggot analysis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I am talking about 4 billion euros that Professor Ponti did not include in the analysis. Dear colleagues, do you think that with these tricks and with these shortcuts you can climb up the slope? I think you must have the courage to propose a real operation to the country, but unfortunately this is all inherent in your DNA. With all due respect, you should read today a beautiful book by Kafka entitled "The Metamorphosis." You are living this drama today: you are alienated from your absence of identity, you no longer know who you are. Are you in government or opposition? You have opened up to civil society by applying to the majority colleges so many representatives from the professions and today you pay this price because you have not developed a culture of government. In the 1960s, Christian Democracy had to fight with a large party, the Italian Communist Party, for the construction of the highway of the sun. The arguments adopted in those years are the same as those adduced by 5 Star friends: it is a useless public work, which leads to money wasting and then corruption, this damned plague. It is not that corruption is curbed by controlling it, but public work is eliminated because one is afraid. In those years those were the arguments, but then the Italian Communist Party took a path, gained a conviction in governing the country, assumed that responsibility, had metamorphosis, but certainly did not last three years. This is what we pay today, dear colleagues: a Movement in deep metamorphosis, which unfortunately makes us Italians pay for the interests deriving from its immobilism. I am from Rome and as a young Roman and young administrator I lived this drama in my city. In the nineties he was fighting whether to build an attractive cultural pole, which was the Park of music, in the Flaminio district; well, even in that case there were those (and there were many) opposed to that public work, who burned dumpsters and cars because it was waste of public money. Who today would dare to say that in the Capital of Italy that work was a great waste of public funds? It is this cultural approach, it is this approach of government that you lack and that I hope you will be able to mature in these years. But we're paying the price. Mr President, I say this very frankly, Mr Pichetto Fratin has explained very well how this project has developed. In those years we fought with the Berlusconi government and also with those who succeeded each other to obtain that work. The Germans wanted it; they did not want it to pass through Italy. Unfortunately, we must agree with our German friends, because they had seen us long, very long. We can repeat many times "first the Italians, first the national interests" but then when we have to realize them, these national interests do not take off. Mr Toninelli does not even have the dignity to come to the Chamber to tell us his position: as usual, they run away when they are cornered. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Minister Toninelli had to come here and defend his thesis. I say this with extreme frankness, without any controversy: Minister Toninelli would be more credible if in these ten months that have passed since the birth of the Government had started one of the 36 great works [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] He didn't get one right. He didn't start a single opera. The only thing we will remember about Minister Toninelli (the gaffe le evito) is the fist raised to heaven in this House. I don't have any more pictures. I don't have any measures. Too much fuffa and on the fuffa do not build public works, does not create occupation. Mr President, I would not like to add much more, but simply tell my friends 5 Stars to make us understand their strategy in the context of the international assembly. I am a humble senator, but I think even the 60 million Italians are not understanding you. Tonight we read the agencies: you will ask France for support and support in the development of projects. I don't know what the ploy is, but I tell you, with extreme sincerity and frankness, that whatever ploy you go to identify this today will not lead you to grow in the consent of the country. Get it out of your head. You're no longer credible as a government force. You need to do a retrospective and introspective analysis to figure out who you are. When you do it, maybe you'll be credible again. I want to understand better. Today you ask France to help you and help us. First, however, go to France, to Paris. The caravan of the political leader Di Maio starts along with Di Battista, who has disappeared today. Take the airplane, go to Paris, legitimize the yellow vests, then come back and after twenty-four hours immediately deny that operation and today ask France to help us. But with what face? With what face? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I'm grounded. As much as you may have a position of contrast to your political lines, I think that just the country when people read that you are asking for help from France, they will laugh. What do you want me to do? Mr President, today we shall be voting on yet another motion in which we will try to exalt time. Other than Quinto Fabio Massimo: you are now masters. The warning we give you, however, is not only in terms of consent. The warning we give you is that, unfortunately, all actual data are negative. The OSCE confirmed yesterday that we are in the midst of economic recession. We have two "strategic" ministers, that of labour and social policies and that of infrastructure and transport, who only have fun denying what was said the previous day. In this way, the country will never find any form of growth and employment. In this way, it will unfortunately be the real data that will seal the failure of your political actions, because, unfortunately, you are not credible. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Movimento 5 Stars has always shown, here and elsewhere, its opposition to the realization of the high-speed line Turin-Lyon. They have always accused us of having an ideological and unfounded position, but the cost-benefit analysis has clearly demonstrated to everyone that our position was, and is, based on solid foundations and knowledge of data. The same cannot be said of the supporters of the yes, who for years have been camping false excuses, phantasmagorical increases in traffic until now never seen. Even, we are talking about saturation of the historical line, which is actually used well below its possibilities, while saturation had to be the prerequisite for the work according to the first agreement with France. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The most recurrent position is also the most interesting political one: we must move forward in order not to lose European funding and to make businesses work (supported yesterday by the new secretary of the Democratic Party, Zingaretti, in Turin). So, the work has to be done, not because it's necessary, but because they give us part of the money to do it. So, in order to get a few million from the European Union (however, public money, which we partly give to Europe), we spend billions of ours: and it doesn't matter if it is needed or not. Does it seem to you the right and responsible attitude of those who have ruled a country in the past? Public resources must be spent in the interests of citizens (and the cost-benefit analysis says that the public interest is not there) and not to provide easy profits to the companies that would like to carry out the work. There are hundreds of necessary infrastructure in Piedmont and in the rest of Italy, to be financed and all more useful than a new tunnel, where there is already a railway line that needs little improvement to make it more competitive. A line that, already today, can bear an increase of beyond 100 percent of the volume of goods transported. And I repeat, the historical line is not saturated and has not seen traffic increases in recent years, if anything the contrary, with a reduction of a third. And the same goes for the highway where 2,000 heavy vehicles circulate a day, against the 60,000 that run the ring road of Turin. Those are the means we need to get off the streets. Those who travel the medium-short distances and pollute the entire Po Valley. I recommend to colleagues who have spoken before checking the data better before quoting them at random. All the forecast of increase of the traffic goods are disregarded over all the alpine arc. Half of the goods are recorded compared to the forecasts on which the work was founded thirty years ago and on the border with France we have returned to the levels of thirty years ago. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They say that without this line we would be cut off from Europe and that we would compromise the Mediterranean corridor envisaged by the European Union and not the Lisbon-Kiev route, which no longer exists because Portugal took off already in 2012 and without paying any penalty. Nothing more false, however, because the Mediterranean corridor consists, for the most part, of traditional railway lines and motorways and not of high-speed lines. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Frejus motorway and the historic Turin-Lyon railway line are already part of it. So we don't cut any international connections if we stop the TAV line and leave no holes in the Mediterranean corridor. If you don't believe me, you can check it yourself, going to the mobility and transport section of the European Commission's website, where all the routes are reported. But we cannot break the agreement with France, we must be credible partners. Only that France has already moved the work of its national section to after 2038, considering them as non-priority investments. And do you know why the base tunnel hasn't postponed it yet? Because, although the 57.5 kilometers fall mostly on French soil (well 45 kilometers, equal to 78 percent of the work) and only 12.5 kilometers are on Italian territory, we have committed to pay 58 percent of the international trade. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Yes, you heard well: we will pay 58 percent of our work only for 22 percent. It is clear that France is asking us to do this, that we and Europe pay it to a large extent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But the national route doesn't, that's going back to 2038. It is not strategic and their Court of Auditors declares the non-priority expenditure for the interests of the country. And it still doesn't end here, because this fantastic work has another very small problem that also makes it inexpensive from an environmental point of view. Yes, because the temperature in the base tunnel would be around 50 degrees centigrade. You understand that it would not be possible to travel by trains and, therefore, it will also be refrigerated. Therefore, they would like to build the two tunnels - one for each direction - like two huge refrigerators under the mountain, each 57.5 kilometers long. It seems to me that this is perfect to preserve the alpine environment, not to mention that however the TIR would continue to pass, because it is previewed an increase of the traffic goods from the current 11 million tons to beyond 38 in the next thirty years. Of these, it is expected to move about 50 percent on iron and, therefore, on the road there will still be about 19, i.e. twice as much today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let me turn to the last subject, but not to the point. Do you know today how many freight trains travel on about 1,000 kilometres of high-speed lines already in existence in Italy? Zero. I'm telling you, zero. This is because it would damage the lines, making them dangerous for passenger trains. The few goods that, for a few months, travel at high speed do so on the convoys of the same type as those of the passengers (I refer to the train ETR.500, that is the model before the Frecciarossa 1000). So if you think it's true that on the new line they will travel container or TIR directly loaded on the trains, you are wrong big, or believe the fairy tales they have told us for thirty years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Brothers of Italy in their motion write that the completion of the connecting infrastructure is essential to reduce the Italian infrastructure deficit, to support the competitiveness of Italian companies and to promote greater integration between North and South of the country, as well as to ensure the integration of Italy into European development; today the priority at European level is to ensure the continuity of the corridors. We agree, only that the infrastructural deficit lies elsewhere: in the missing lines to get to Matera from Rome, or in the single track lines of Puglia or Piemonte itself. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And there isn't a missing connection between Turin and Lyon, while many necks of bottle on the rest of the Italian railways are there, indeed. We invest in those, then, because through the existing line already pass greater shapes than those that can then cross Piedmont and continue towards Genoa. It seems to us that, more than ours, the real ideological position is that of those who want the tunnel at any cost, of those who use this topic in an instrumental way as a weapon of mass distraction to divert attention from the measures of the Government that are changing our country: decree dignity, corrupt sweeps, simplifications, 11 billion of Italian protections [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , citizenship income, 100 share and soon also guaranteed minimum wage. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And then we let President Conte, who is meeting with the two Vice Presidents of the Council and Minister Toninelli, and who intend to correctly assess the cost-benefit analysis in order to draw the right conclusions. Together they will find the best solution, which will certainly be the one that will protect the national interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u25	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u26	Mr President, I am in favour of motion 1-00088. I am against all the other motions and the agenda. On the latter I would like to make one point: since motion 1-00088, at the first signature of Senator Romeo, provides for the complete re-debate of the project, I also hope that, once this debate has been concluded (which I hope will happen very soon), it will be in the direction advocated by Senator De Petris. Having said that, I confirm the opposite view.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u27	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motions and the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u30	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we have been discussing the Turin-Lyon trade for more than twenty years, each time we snub data, financing cost analyses, some useful and others a little instrumental. What is certain, however, is that nobody in consciousness can say that today they know with certainty what the technologies, society, the level of transport, the level of development that will be in Italy or in Europe in thirty or fifty years, that is the period of life of a work like this. We don't know exactly how he didn't know who, in the mid-nineteenth century, built the Frejus tunnel. No one then could even imagine what today's technology would be, the development of electronics, the ability and willingness of people and businesses to move, the current level of trade. You who are younger, if by chance you are curious, go and see the debate and controversy of the Sixties on the Autostrada del Sole: it was said that it was a useless work, that there was no such level of transport to build such a highway. Today, frankly, I think no one has any doubts about the far-sightedness of that choice. That is why the decision is first and foremost a political one, a decision that has already been taken. We are once again discussing 10 percent of the work already done. It's absurd for anyone with any reason. The transport lines have always been, in the history of humanity, corridors of economic development and communication between peoples. We should stop talking about Turin-Lyon: here we are talking at least about Milan-Paris or Venice-Paris, of which the Turin-Lyon section is simply a small piece. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] This line has become for many a totem to be demolished, it has nothing to do with facts, data and choices. In this sense, someone said long ago that before doing the Appia nobody traveled on the Appia, rightly; made the Appia he traveled on the Appia. That's what you need to remember. We are thinking of a work projecting it at thirty, fifty years, it is not a work that looks at the present, and indeed it is hoped that economic growth, unlike what is happening, will increase mobility, trade, travel and therefore we must be ready. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am voting against all motions and, of course, I am voting in favour of the agenda. The Undersecretary hopes that we will then move in the direction indicated on my agenda, but in the meantime the majority motion will once again try not to decide and take time. We have reached a point - you know perfectly well - so it is no longer possible to postpone the political decision. The figures are clear and I will allow myself to say a few more things about this, but it is clear to everyone that one cannot think or pretend to be able to make a living, by starting the races and then maybe revoke them, until the European elections. This - I say this from a political point of view and I also address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement - cannot continue to be the way forward without taking decisions. The decision on the FTA is not only no longer postponed, but is still a political decision. We have repeated this several times and it has been twenty to thirty years; we have the results of the studies and the positions from this point of view are clear; as far as we are concerned they are very clear. The cost-benefit assessment has been done for a long time and, to start reading the data we have and looking at the scenario of international trade, we know that this work risks being not only not a priority, but a work - as it has been conceived - abstruse with respect to the general plan of the transports and the logistics and with respect to a serious programming of the future of our Country. There is a risk of a hole not only in the mountain but, once again, also in the public accounts. The famous financing of the European Union - let us remember - concerns only the cross-border trade and not everything else, which is obviously necessary downstream and after the hole in the mountain itself. I would also like to say something else: I have heard many speeches calling future generations to responsibility, and I want to talk about that. I am sorry, for example, that the new Secretary of the Democratic Party, as the first act, went to sponsor the TAV and at the same time announced the participation in the climate march on 15 March. The young people who will strike on 15 March to call all the rulers and political decision-makers to their responsibilities with regard to the implementation of the Paris agreements - and therefore for their future - have also clearly responded to that position. The future of our children is about the fact that, at last, without having done so for years, we assume responsibility for the decision of a change of course, but that means ecological conversion of the economy - I say this clearly in this House - and not the continuation of a model of development that has not taken us anywhere, after having put the great works at the centre, without even being able to achieve them, and has left the priority infrastructure to itself. Read the data, it is not a problem of contrast between investments for commuters and local public transport, but of how resources are placed and of what future you want to draw, not only for transport, but for this country. In these years of crisis, in which we have seen few jobs, the anti-cyclical measures that have worked have been those that have favoured the works that were good for the territory, gave well-being and made small businesses and the local economy work. This is the future that we should imagine: that of our generation and of our children is not hung from a tunnel of 56 kilometers, but from the ability to plan, invest and to implement a true ecological conversion of transport, consumption and the way to conceive, heal and cure the territory. [[Applause from Senator Martelli.]] Therefore, those who have now awakened all ecologists, thinking that that investment is ultimately proof of sustainability, are wrong: in our opinion, it is exactly the opposite, and I would just like to call you to that. Today, however, the time has come to choose also which side to go, towards which model of development and which investments for our territory and our country. Rationality and programming are needed: other than corridors, that investment on the TAV is out of a serious programming and a serious decision to drastically move the transport of goods from rubber to iron, which did not happen. Go and read on the website of the Ministry of the environment - not of the current one, but of the previous one, in which the data was already present - the list of the 16 billion subsidies environmentally harmful, most of which goes to feed the transport on rubber and the road haulage, therefore exactly the opposite of what today the supporters of the TAV would like to come here to tell us. [[Applause from Senators Buccarella and Martelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u36	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, after listening carefully, I wonder how Senator De Petris, who in this case supports with sword thesis of the 5 Stars, hopes to convince us, since she has not even managed to convince Senator Errani, who is also part of his member of the same Group, Misto. It is a bold thesis, but I appreciate that consistency with one's ideas is clearly manifested. [[Senator De Petris' comments.]] Unfortunately, these ideas are not only diametrically opposed to mine, but I believe they are also to those of anyone who cares about the reality and the truth that we can find not only from the present, but also from history. In the last five minutes, while listening to colleagues, I watched some dates. It turns out that in 1839 - think - for the first time in Italy a railway was built, only a few kilometers long (7.25 kilometers). The Bourbons made it (then also the South could aspire to be at the head of the infrastructure); it was the famous Napoli-Portici. As for the cost-benefit analysis, think it was just to allow the Bourbons to go on vacation alone. If they had made it a precise problem of costs, surely that railway should not have been done. And why then continue with the railroad? We could continue with the horses and the carriages, which fortunately had been invented, because men used to only ride horses. But perhaps you could only ride a horse and not even invent the carriages. Then a certain Benz, whose name appears within the famous Mercedes-Benz brand, in 1886 invented the first burst engine. You think it went a few miles an hour, a little more than a carriage. And, if we had to imagine the cost of the roads to make the cars walk in that burst engine, why not always walk on foot or with horses? Did you need it? Toninelli would surely have decided that the burst engine was something that hurt humanity and would continue to say that it was better to go with the carriages. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] And think that the Wright brothers in 1903 even decided that they could fly and for the first time put in the sky a car that was lifted from the air and that, with a person on board, it was a small stretch. Blessed God, but why do this stuff? Think of the cost-benefit analysis of the flight. Why? For the taste of the Wright brothers? Today to cross the ocean we should still entrust ourselves to the ships, like Columbus with the three caravans, which in turn, if he had made it a problem of costs and benefits, would not have discovered America, Minister Toninelli. How can one imagine that everything depends on the costs and benefits imagined by Toninelli? [[Applause from the FdI, FI-BP and PD Groups]] To come to more recent times and to more concrete situations, because I understand that it may seem a piece so much to be heard... [[Comments of Senators Giarrusso and Catalfo]] Let me talk; it means that something has hit you about what I said. Thanks for interrupting. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] On September 21, 1924 (I understand that this is an era that surely makes Senator De Petris horrify) the first section of the motorway was inaugurated, the Milan-Varese, which will become the motorway of the lakes; a few years later, Milan-Genoa was inaugurated. The highways? But why not limit yourself to country lanes? Costs and benefits? I will not dwell too long on what other colleagues have said and will say, on the incredible path of cost-benefit analysis, that before it was 7.6 billion and that suddenly it becomes only 2.2 billion to the maximum of deficit and negative impact. I will not dwell on the enormous damage that the blockage of procurement, that is, the blockage of the TAV, would cause. I say that, in addition to the things that everyone has said (the restoration of areas, the penalties, the missed contributions of Europe), I do not always believe what Confindustria says. But Confindustria, through its president Boccia, claims that we will lose, only for that, 50,000 jobs. Not bad; we give him the income of citizenship and the problem is absolutely solved. Let's save this and then give the money to those who lose their jobs. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] You want to create huge damage. You see, I agree with the Leader of Movimento 5 Stars: the problem is child of two different ways of conceiving development. Senator De Petris also said: he is the son of two opposing worldviews. The rest is talk. But, plastically, the citizens have shown how they feel. On the one hand, in Turin, there have been two great civil and peaceful demonstrations, for controlled development, of course, attentive to costs and careful that no one steals. But it's not that you don't do things to keep them from stealing. On the other hand, the most antagonistic areas of the left have given life in these years with extreme violence to the No TAV movement, too long caressed and pampered even by many who today understand that the TAV line cannot be blocked. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] These are the two worlds and it is right that the 5 Stars stay with the world of the No TAV, I recognize it, even if then the votes you take for the income of citizenship that with the No TAV does not have much to do with, considering that many are children of Dad who do not need a citizenship income. I wonder, however, about the friends of the League. You know that we have done and are making a patriotic opposition. We supported you in the immigration policy, despite, rather than working for the naval blockade that we have repeatedly asked you to get, you stopped at no time at landings, perhaps not to fight the friends of the 5 Stars. So, in the face of the No TAV movement, instead of fighting against colleagues in government: What the hell are you talking about? What is mini-TAV? Is it a smaller TAV line? He didn't even get it right. (Mr Toninelli enters the Chamber, who is going to sit in the M5S Group.) I see Minister Toninelli has arrived, but now I must not interrupt because Minister Toninelli is here. I greet him; he is a person who is right to come to the Chamber; among other things, he always sits among the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars and never at the benches of the Government, because obviously he is already preparing for the coming months. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] Gasparri suggested it to me and I said it. I was asking the friends of the League: Is it possible that, in front of the TAV line, you propose the mini-TAV and that in front of the naval block you limit yourself to the mini-blocking of the landings? Could it be that, in the face of an attempt to stop the law on self-defense, you tremble and consider it possible to diminish what your voters - our common voters - have asked you to do? It is possible that, since they don't like flat tax, we no longer talk about the mini, nor about the big flat tax??. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Then I think that the leader of the Movimento 5 Stars is right: they are two different worlds. On the one hand, those who believe that development can be achieved with the No TAV and, on the other, those who believe instead that progress is not stopped, but we control it, we manage it, we govern it with honesty, with serenity, but also with clear choices, not with mini choices. Finally, as if all this were not enough, there is a fact that allows us to say that we are in favour of the TAV, even if our motion is the only one in which it is said that if you are against it, you of the 5 Stars have the courage to propose a consultative referendum among the people of those Regions and see if it is right who thinks like you or like us. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is one reason that is worth more to me than all the others, the value of the word given: pacta sunt servanda. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Who will ever invest in Italy, if you can think that our word is worth nothing, when Toninelli decides that it must be changed? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u39	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, yesterday I saw the images of the government's strong man, Vice Prime Minister Salvini, running on television as he set out at the summit at Palazzo Chigi and uttered these words: Tonight yes or no, maybe it doesn't exist. My heart had opened up to a hope that, instead, was fallacious. Maybe it still exists in the outcome of yesterday's summit, which decided nothing, and it exists even more clearly in the motion tabled by colleagues from the majority, even at the first signature of President Romeo, who commits the Government to discuss everything again. We're still at it. It should be said that - I too make a Latin quote - dum Romae consulitur, Saguntum expuntatur. As we enter into technical recession, the world of construction companies is strongly in crisis. Two of the top three per turnover risk disappearing these days. While all this happens and the autonomous and independent bodies show us that the forecasts on gross domestic product are absolutely to be revised in decrease, here we are debating and being advised. We have seen something embarrassing: Mr Dell'Orco said that he agreed on the agenda for Senator De Petris, but the opinion is against it, even if he hopes that we will go in that direction. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Vitali]] In years of parliamentary life something so embarrassing I've never seen it, but this legislature is getting used to it and more. It is yesterday's news that the OECD predicts - it has been said - a GDP of -0.2%, which means 1.1 points less than the forecasts on the basis of which you have made the budget law - the way in which you have done that budget law still offends us - that, therefore, you will be forced to review. We will see how and with what tools. A major public investment plan would be needed at this point. The students of the economy also know that this state of affairs must be answered in that way and, instead, the works already financed - we will also see how - that could give development, help to the recovery of GDP and work to enterprises are blocked. We would need an enlightened Government that can plan and decide above all; instead, we have such a confused Government that Minister Toninelli does not know well where to sit and has rightly sat in the benches of the Senate, almost as if he were precocious that in fact - as I hope and I will return - this Assembly knows how to give distrust when we vote the motion of distrust of the PD and President Marcucci. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It was a mistake to schedule it so far because every day that passes is an extra damage to the country. This House will be able to have an uproar of autonomy and dignity when we discuss it and we will work to make that happen. The way in which the dossier on the TAV line has been carried out so far is the emblem of a failed strategy of this Government. It is a strategy without a point of view that looks far away and without the ability to deal with even the things of today, since tomorrow we have to decide to start the bans, if we do not want to lose 300 million euros. You started by dealing cost-benefit analysis, which had become a sort of mantra, like a kind of innovative tool, forgetting that only about ten of them have been made on this work. At some point you said you stopped the bans, but luckily you didn't. It has been said that there is no beginning of the work. I have already said that the tunnel that does not exist is the Brenner tunnel. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] Don't mess with Minister Toninelli. Having said all this, a cost-benefit analysis commission is appointed, chosen with such objective elements that all those who have been part of it, with the exception of one component, had already declared themselves opposed to the work. It is as if, in a criminal trial, the court judges were made up of pm and not third persons in relation to the same judgment. It's like they're giving us a job in high school with the track closed: Prove the candidate that the work is not convenient. They worked as if - Totò would say - no matter what this work should be done. That is the way in which this committee has worked, by making mistakes on which I do not want to bore you. I'm just gonna stop at the most obvious ones. It is assumed by axiom that the infrastructure will cost more than anticipated; it overlooks the fact that of that cost as much as 40% is borne by the European Union. It is considered a cost to the community the least use of fuel and therefore the reduction of excise duties: madness. What we have said to be a problem for the environment and for pollution becomes, in this cost-benefit analysis, a cost. Even you consider it a cost less money than dealerships will earn through tolls; but are these dealerships your enemies or do you want to help them, so much so that they are worried that they will decrease tolls? [[Applause from the PD Group]] Mr President, these two last aspects are laughable: but can one think of analysing a railway work by looking at the damage it would have, as a result, a road work? It is as if it had been decided not to make the high speed all over Italy for the problems that this has caused to Alitalia: a real madness from the point of view of the cost-benefit analysis. Once again, we are faced with a monetary and financial analysis which completely excludes the evaluation of the real benefits, the environmental benefits, in terms of public health, safety and mobility. Mistakes so Marche that, after a few days, on input, apparently, of Conte, it had to be said that there was a need for a second draft and were called back in haste and fury. In short, a cost-benefit analysis more the result of fake news and preliminary analysis, than of serious, in-depth and scientific study. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I do not want to dwell more on a subject that I am also passionate about. In economics, as has already been said, reliability is a primary asset. You don't invest in countries that don't respect the pacts, you don't invest in countries where governments change their opinion at every legislature. The minister Tria reminded you, saying that, if you do not respect the pacts, as could happen for the TAV line Turin-Lion, no one will come to invest in Italy anymore. I repeat, no one will come to invest in Italy anymore: if your Minister tells you, he is pointing out to you that you are doing the country, a really huge damage. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Incidentally, I address Senator Malan, who made some statements the other day, many of whom are acceptable. PD and our governments have always been consistent about the work; always, from 2003 to today, there has been no time when our governments have had uncertainties. I do conclude, Mr President. Seneca writes in the "Letters" to Lucilius that much of the progress is in the desire to progress. If you do not have this will, colleagues of the majority, step aside, stand sideways, stop: it is the only thing you can do for the good of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u40	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education, Piazza della Resistenza, in Monterotondo, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u43	Crazy people (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, as the League and the 5 Star Movement know, did not appear in the elections of 4 March 2018 in coalition and with a unitary program. For this reason, in order to give stability to the country and allow the overcoming of the stalemate, a government contract has been agreed and signed, in order to regulate and direct the future activity of Government. Among the topics discussed, surely the great works have had the relief that deserve and, in the specific case of the high-speed train Turin-Lion, on which the League has expressed several times a favorable position, it has been thought to have to proceed to a deepening. The objective shared by both political forces was to review the project and verify the possibility of achieving it by saving resources and reducing the environmental impact. Assuming a savings of one million euros, in fact, we would free resources to be allocated to other priority works, thus allowing to solve problems present in other territories. We will therefore follow up, as the unitary motion that we have signed, to the provisions of the Government contract, which commits us to evaluate this work, in compliance with international agreements. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u46	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, freight traffic through the Italian Alpine passes has increased, from 1967 to 2018, from 19 million tonnes to 200 million tonnes, increasing 10 and a half times in fifty-one years and doubling every eleven years. When the tendency continued to go on, the studies of some militants No TAV arrived, who said that instead suddenly, since it was decided to make the railway line, the exchanges and the traffics of goods were in constant descent. It's something we still hear today. I went to listen to the militants No TAV in Val di Susa in 2001, being then candidate in that college, saying without compromise that I was, as Forza Italia has always been, in favor of the TAV. However, we must listen to the reasons of all and these people, who made propaganda, their meetings and their gatherings, have then become the cost-benefit Commission. The old militants No TAV have become the experts of the government. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Senator Pirro, who is Piedmontese, said that they do this by trade, make the cost-benefit assessment of craft. They do the No TAV as a trade; let's guess then what the Commission would say cost-benefits, with five members out of six militants No TAV. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The sixth was not and in fact did not sign the final report, partly because it is a truly incredible story. It should be recalled that cost-benefit analyses have already been carried out both by Italy and by the European Union, financed by it, with more serious parameters and approaches than those adopted by the Commission, where the most important man was Professor Marco Ponti. The fact that the reduction in motorway traffic and, as a result, the revenues of motorway managers and the lower taxes that the State collects is an additional cost is truly demencial. I had heard in the first few weeks of government that excise duties would be cancelled or at least a large part of them would be cancelled; we still have no news and, indeed, excise duties cannot be reduced because otherwise we would have serious damage to the treasury. To say that less traffic on the roads is a damage to the state is an extraordinary approach. When it is said in the analysis that the penalties that have to be paid have not been taken into account, it is indeed another extraordinary element. Another extraordinary fact is that of the cost-benefit analysis we have heard from the first day of the settlement of the Count Government, June 1, 2018. After eight months, the cost-benefit analysis finally arrives. I think there might be fewer times because if it takes eight months to do the analysis, to really build the work, where it was decided to build it, it would take 8,000 years. If it took eight months just to do an analysis in studios and offices, let alone work for real. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Really working, though, is perhaps something unrelated to such logic. After eight months the analysis arrives with great dust, preceded by statements of the highest exponents not only of the Movimento 5 Stars, but of the Government, because it is a problem of Italy. The vice president of the Council of Ministers Di Maio and Minister Toninelli said that as long as they are in the government, the work will never be done. This was before the cost-benefit analysis arrived. Then he comes and gives some results. Eight days later comes the other analysis that says it's not exactly like that and that, more or less, the cost and the damage amount to half. What kind of seriousness is there in this? [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] What kind of seriousness is there in saying that the work will never be done, knowing that more laws of the State, which have neither been repealed nor modified, provide for the work to be done. Therefore, it is an illegal act to have stopped contracts [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and telling the private company that he's doing the work of blocking everything. This society will also ask for damages if the work does not go on. That is a company formed specifically and there are expensive machinery stopped for months, because the additional contracts have been stopped. It is a very serious damage, which will pay all Italians, even if, as we ask, they resume working tomorrow. The damage to Italy, therefore, is not only the EUR 800 million that we will lose in a few days, because I believe it is now fatal. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, EUR 800 million is approximately EUR 1.6 million for each Member of the majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If there wasn't Article 68 of the Constitution that protects you, you should pay. If we were in City Council doing this, you'd run the risk of having to pull out 1.6 million euros each. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group and Senator Ferrari]] But you are protected by Article 68 of the Constitution, which when you were in opposition you said you wanted to abolish, but let's not. It is said no to the TAV line and it is proposed to approve a motion that says to discuss the project in full: I know that there was already written in the Government contract and in fact, since we read it, we have denounced this aspect. How can we fully discuss a work that is already under construction, so there are kilometers of final tunnel already done? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Link of the MoVimento 5 Stars, the other kilometers are not realized not because you do not want to do the main gallery, but precisely because in all the tunnels, even much shorter than 57 kilometers, it takes ventilation. The colleague says that there would be a temperature of 50 degrees in that tunnel: of course, if you close the tunnel on both sides, there are 50 degrees, but from what world it is world, already with the Frejus tunnel, made 150 years ago, you do the ventilation of the tunnels. Therefore, there will be no hell in that gallery, as it was told in Val di Susa and in many other places. Moreover, asking for a full discussion of the project, the credibility of Italy is completely lost: Minister Tria said so. Therefore, colleagues in the majority, if you are consistent with the position you hold today, you should submit a motion of no confidence to Minister Tria, who said that you are making Italy lose credibility with your moves. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD Groups]] Do not leave to us the motion of distrust to Minister Toninelli, but present it to you! Then there is another issue, perhaps less important from the monetary point of view: to say no and to discuss in full an already established work, on which there are international agreements, will cause us to lose credibility. Therefore, do not come and tell us that European funds can be used elsewhere, because we will have to return them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Do not come and tell that with the money saved you will make the railway lines for commuters, the line for Matera or for I don't know where: in every Region you have told that, thanks to the fact that you will no longer make the TAV line, you will be able to realize who knows what wonderful works. It's money that loses Italy, so maybe you have to cancel some works that could have been made to pay for the damage of the TAV. That's the truth! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If this is not achieved, the great traffics of passengers, commercial and tourist will not stop in Italy, but will exclude it, so there will be less opportunity to invest and create work and wealth with which to pay the subsidies to the people who need, instead of giving a subsidy to the unemployed. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] All this will go north of the Alps and everything will be done in the interests of Germany, Switzerland and Austria, which will have the benefits that we should have. I had heard that the Italians must come first and instead the Germans, the Swiss and the Austrians will come first. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Good for them, but we must defend the interests of our country. Members of the majority, the decisions you make here are yours and not the leaders of your parties: it is you who vote. The decisions you make here do not only affect Facebook polls or likes, but affect people's lives for decades. For decades, if you say no to this work, Italy will be poorer and there will be fewer opportunities for young people. Let's say yes to the TAV line: do not stop Italy! (The Senators of the FI-BP Group display a banner with the inscription "Yes TAV." Do not stop Italy and signs, on a tricolor background, with the inscription "Do not stop Italy."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u47	Remove the signs immediately! I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 11:55 a.m. and resumed at 12:01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u50	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here we are again talking about TAV. On the contrary, here we are talking about TAV, because, at last, there was a debate, since, when we voted on the ratification of the agreements with France in 2017, the timing of the speeches was unconstitutional: just to clarify it to those who complained that there was little talk of this work in this House. Well, let's talk about it. This history of the TAV is imbued with very serious anomalies, with trampled rules, beginning with the violent repression carried out by previous governments to the detriment of the citizens and citizens of Valsusa. One wonders, in fact, why a people is united in this way, transversally, from the young to the elderly, from the watchful to the mayor, against a work that you define as fundamental, and that for twenty years does not give up, but continues to fight. Have you ever listened to their reasons? No, you never did. Perhaps because of fear of their competence or because you know well that the arguments pro -TAV, at least, are often fake news. They're fake. They're lies. The first reason is that the basic agreement between Italy and France in 2001 provided, in Article 1, for the work to start with saturation of the existing line, currently exploited for less than 15%. So, this is the brick and the base. Where, then, are these huge flows of goods mentioned between us and Lyon? The projections made twenty years ago, of increased traffic, have miserably collapsed, as confirmed recently by the same Observatory of Turin-Lion. Needless, then, to drive a freight train, not a passenger train, as I have heard, in galleries of 57 kilometers at a speed of 160 kilometers per hour, earning, compared to the current line, a handful of minutes. Second point: why didn't the opera ever start? Why, since there is not a single inch of the base tunnel of this work? This opera doesn't have an inch of a hole. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] To date, only geological recognition activities have been carried out, including those in France, because, several times, France has also taken a step backwards. The French Court of Auditors very clearly - and I have here the document (Exposes a document) - said that the work is too expensive and recommends modernising the existing one. In addition, he reminded France that other countries, such as Slovenia and Hungary, preferred to improve the existing, rather than embark on expensive and useless works. Many times Europe, which has dozens of high-priority projects, has changed the allocation of funds to other Member States. In addition, even Portugal has given up work without paying a penny of penalties, even though it has already received some of the funding. So please don't tell us about the big line Kiev-Lisbon, because you'd be laughing at each other. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's from the 19th century, Michele Strogoff stuff. Today the traffic of goods takes place mainly on the North-South and not on the East-West ones. Go to Switzerland - you have also talked about it - to take a look. Given that there are no flows of goods that justify this work and that the current line can carry TIR and container and very few use it, even the history of pollution can be solved with a tax on road transport, as do, for example, the Swiss. Then let's talk about the criminal scarecrow, waving around all the time. I want to tell you a secret: there are no penalties to pay. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to contracts already awarded, there is no right to apply for penalties, as stated in Article 2, paragraph 232 (c) of Law No 191 of 23 December 2009 (Financial Act 2010). The rule stipulates that the contractor or the contractor of the works must undertake to renounce any claim arising in connection with any works identified by the decrees of the President of the Council, as well as any claim which may be future linked to the failure or delay of financing the entire work or subsequent lots. This is also reiterated in Article 3 of the Ratification Act 5 January 2017, n. 1, previously recalled. Identical prediction is contained in the resolution of CIPE no. 67 of 2017, in the combined provisions of Articles 1 and 6 of the resolution. I'm talking about real things, written in black and white. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Let us turn to the issue of penalties in international relations. These decisions are put back to sovereign states, as the State's legal report also recalls, which must be firmly anchored to the socio-economic and financial sustainability of the entire project, according to the same European standards. We do not see how serious responsibilities can be attributed to the Member States when these assumptions are lacking, i.e. when money is lacking. Finally, there is a precedent. I am referring to Portugal, which canceled its high-speed Lisbon-Madrid route in 2012. There was no claim for compensation or other compensation from the European Commission and Spain. Therefore, no penalty, except for the unnecessary threats of TELT and the European Union's diktat. Let's talk about costs. The line should cost €9.6 billion, updated at 31 December 2017, plus €1.4 billion already spent on preliminary studies, surveys, geognostic galleries, thus reaching over €11 billion. Given that, for now, there is only one verbal commitment by the European Union to increase its contribution from 40% to 50%, we may not even receive the money. The financing of the tunnel is in fact postponed to the approval of the multi-annual budget of the European Union of 2021 and the funds already allocated in the Grant Agreement will not be used because of the delays, but above all because Article 16 of the 2012 agreement requires Italy and France to be sure of the funding of all the work, including the amount of 40% promised, but not yet approved by the European Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This availability is a prerequisite for starting the construction of the base tunnel. This availability of funds does not exist. France has not allocated a single euro for the base tunnel. So, the tunnel can't start. So the money won't come! Recapitulate: we arrive at a cost of more than 13 billion, of which more than 11 still to be spent. Moreover, the French trade, which cost 7.7 billion in 2011, today would cost about 9 billion and voilà: more than 20 billion euros. But all this would not have to be repeated, because it is written in black and white in the cost-benefit analysis that the work is not worth and is not a fake news. It took a long time just to properly deepen the matter. Let us not forget that, moreover, there is an asymmetrical distribution. Today it is essential that the distribution of costs be re-discussed between Italy and France, in light of the fact that the two countries no longer want to make the lines of access to the tunnel. This decision amends this asymmetrical distribution, so that one Italian kilometre would cost EUR 280 million, while the French one would cost EUR 60. Those who insist on this work, therefore, do not have at heart the interest of the people, but of multinationals and Euromafias, who are waiting for nothing more than to win rich contracts. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Moreover, the Italian shipyard is also legally French territory, if they would win them without anti-mafia laws. However, they will have to wait a while, because France will decide in 2038 on the whole feasibility of the work. Understand? But how can you think of spending billions on a useless work that, if everything goes as desired by the promoters, could be finished in thirty years, when today you have to explain - I tell the Lucans present - how you will go to Matera, city of culture 2019? This country is tired of seeing the money wasted. This country wants proper facilities, moving and traveling on local routes and not going to work crammed like sardines, in livestock wagons, taking a trip without having to take two buses and a taxi. TELT has no title or green light (even silent-consensus) at the launch of the TAV races. If TELT did so, this would result in a serious and direct violation of the Italian-France agreements, which are the law in force of the Italian State. The Government is directly responsible for the work of TELT. The remaining funds of the European Union, currently available for Turin-Lyon, have already been lost even in the presence of an extension of the Grant Agreement to 2020. The activities financed have been seriously delayed for years due to proven inefficiencies of TELT. The European Commission and INEA are fully aware of this. Even if TELT did not launch TELT tenders on Monday 11 March, the European Commission would like to reduce more than EUR 300 million of grants allocated. But the European Commission cannot impose the timetable. This situation and the exact reply of what has already been seen in 2013 with the Monti Government. The serious delay we are witnessing is the direct responsibility of those who had to act in time and did not act, starting with the commissioners of past governments. I have finished, but first I want to tell you something: there are not only billions at stake here stolen from schools, hospitals, useful railways; here there is a matter of ethical and moral order. The State has cleared the people's will with violence; the State has not listened to the citizens; the State has acted as a dictator trampling everything and everyone for the TAV. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is time to give justice to the people of Valsuino and recognize, after almost thirty years, that they were right. Not only do we want to keep a promise made so long ago by Beppe and all of us, but we will thank them for what they did for the country and especially for the example they gave us: sovereignty belongs to the people and when the people are united, no one can beat them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I therefore announce the vote in favour of the motion Lega-Movement 5 Stars. [[Live applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u51	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. Following the vote on motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the G1 agenda will be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 65 (text 2), tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 66 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 69, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 88 tabled by Senators Romeo, Patuanelli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u54	MALLEGNI (FI-BP). Mr President, I should like to point out that in the last vote on the agenda I wanted to vote against and I mistakenly voted in favour of it. [[Ironic applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u55	The Presidency takes note of this. That concludes the debate on the motions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u56	The next item is the debate on draft law No 677. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u57	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law of parliamentary initiative ratifying and implementing two agreements, respectively on scientific and technological cooperation and cultural cooperation, signed by Italy and Belarus in June 2011. I would like to stress that the text before us proposes, albeit partially and limited to only two agreements with Belarus, the text of the bill of ratification of several bilateral international treaties proposed by the Government during the XVII legislature, with the act of Senate No. 2812 which, presented on 4 May 2017, was examined and approved by the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee on 11 October 2017, without being able to see its parliamentary examination completed for the end of the legislature. The two agreements with Belarus which are the subject of this ratification respectively on scientific and technological cooperation and cultural cooperation are each made up of 11 articles and define the legal framework within which bilateral cooperation can continue and grow, including through the involvement of civil society. (The sitting was suspended at 12.21 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 12.21 p.m. and resumed at 12.21 p.m.) The first of the two agreements is aimed at promoting the development of cooperation in the field of science and technology on an equal and mutually beneficial basis, respecting the international obligations of the two countries, in particular in the fields of fundamental and applied research, industrial technology and innovation. The second agreement, on cultural cooperation, is in turn aimed at the realization of programmes of joint activities for the strengthening of bilateral cooperation in the cultural field, which may take, among others, the forms of the organization of cultural and artistic events, the promotion of contacts between cultural organizations and associations, the translation of literary works, the intensification of relations between museum institutions. The economic burden resulting from the implementation of the measure is estimated at a total of around €170,000 per year and €176,820 from the third year following the entry into force of the measure. Evidence, last but not least, as the ratification of the agreements does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations assumed by Italy, resulting in the texts under consideration closely related to the other international legal instruments dedicated to the cultural and scientific issues already signed by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u58	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u61	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, with your permission, I would just like to declare the Democratic Party's vote firmly in favour and ask to be able to leave the text of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency takes note of this and authorizes it to do so, Senator Jacob.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u64	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the two agreements with Belarus which are the subject of this ratification, respectively on scientific and technological cooperation and cultural cooperation, define the legal framework within which bilateral cooperation can grow and offer Italy the opportunity to have a privileged partner and an important market for our products and services. We at Movimento 5 Stars have always been in favour of cultural cooperation agreements with other countries, because we believe that they are the basis for mutual knowledge and collaboration and allow the creation of a favourable environment to promote our economic role. I also believe that when we talk about the world of culture in crisis, in Italy we must take into account the opportunity to spread our culture, our lifestyle and our products and services in the world, starting from the great competence of our universities, which - let me say - are at the forefront. Such agreements are a privileged instrument, to which we must resort even more frequently in this parliamentary term. Specifically, the cooperation agreement in the field of science and technology will certainly produce good results together with the Belarusian partners. In particular, we are among the first places in the world for research and technology and we can fully reap the benefits of this cooperation, also giving our teachers the opportunity to make known the Italian know-how abroad, thus increasing the prestige of our research centers. The second Agreement on cultural cooperation will allow the creation of profitable collaborations and new forms of cultural and artistic events, the promotion of contacts between cultural organizations and associations, the translation of literary works and the intensification of relations between museum institutions. It seems to me very interesting, then, the reference to the protection of cultural heritage, which could pave the way for further future collaborations also in the economic field. Mr President, we hope that they will increase the opportunities for cooperation with the people of Belarus, but above all that the promotion of our cultural and scientific role will become one of the instruments of our international cooperation, also in view of our great experience. In conclusion, let me say that cultural cooperation with other peoples must always be seen as a bridge, a helping hand to the society with which we relate, even before an agreement with this or that Government. I say this because it is important to understand our international role, which can no longer be that of the past. In this new multipolar context, Italy must be the protagonist of mediation, promote peace and well-being and propose itself in the exchange of knowledge and in the protection of human heritage in all its forms. That is why Parliament must be free from prejudices and pragmatics in its work, always having the interest of our country at heart. By doing so, we must inevitably value our peculiarities; and the promotion of culture and research is one of them. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group in the Senate on this ratification. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u65	I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the draft law as a whole in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: (a) Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on scientific and technological cooperation, made in Trieste on 10 June 2011; (b) Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cultural cooperation, made in Trieste on 10 June 2011 (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u66	The next item is the debate on draft law No 678. The rapporteur, Senator Ciampolillo, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u67	Mr President, the draft law of parliamentary initiative before the House today brings the ratification and implementation of the Cooperation Agreements in cultural and technical-scientific matters signed by Italy and the Republic of Korea in October 2005 and February 2007 respectively. As can be seen from the introductory report, the text before our examination proposes, albeit partially and limited to the only two Agreements with South Korea, Act No 2813, ratifying numerous bilateral international agreements, which, presented by the Government during the 17th legislature, was examined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Emigration of the Senate on 28 June 2017, but could not see its parliamentary process completed due to the end of the legislature. The agreements under ratification are aimed at defining the legal framework within which the already excellent collaboration between Italy and South Korea in the fields of arts, culture, education, science and technology can grow. In particular, with the first of the two texts on cultural cooperation, the Parties express their common wish to promote bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the fields of arts, culture, education, cultural and archaeological heritage, youth and sport (Articles 1 and 2). The second agreement, which concerns scientific and technological cooperation, aims to overcome a previous bilateral trade treaty dating back to 1984, and to promote the development of scientific and technological cooperation in the areas of mutual interest (Article 1), both bilaterally, in particular through the conclusion of specific agreements between Ministries, institutions, universities and research centres involved in scientific research and technological innovation (Article 2) and multilaterally (Article 3). The economic burden resulting from the implementation of the measure is estimated at a total of around EUR 790,000 per year and EUR 815,170 from the third year following the entry into force of the measure. Evidence, finally, as the ratification of the agreements there are no profiles of incompatibility with the national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations assumed by Italy, resulting in the texts under consideration closely related to the other international legal instruments dedicated to the cultural and scientific issues already signed by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u68	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u71	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, I reserve the right to hand over the text of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr Giacobbe (PD). Allow me, however, to make two very brief considerations, also because the cultural and scientific and technological collaboration between South Korea and Italy is excellent and I think this Agreement helps us to develop them even more. In particular, cultural cooperation will enable us to exchange new forms of art and culture, education, cultural and archaeological heritage, youth and sport. As far as scientific and technological cooperation is concerned, I think it should be stressed that Korea is today one of the world's leaders in this area, and so the Korean Government pays great attention to investments and research into technological innovation, with the aim of being part of the ten leading countries in this area. I think it is important that Italy, which intends to place itself in an important position in the Far East, becoming more and more a country capable of producing technological excellence and establishing synergies with particularly advanced partner States, sees South Korea as a privileged interlocutor. These agreements will then direct us and help us in that direction. Finally, I hope that these agreements will be ratified with as broad a consensus as possible and that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of them. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u74	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as you well know, relations between our country and the Republic of South Korea have been established for at least fifty years. The first Agreement was signed in Seoul in 1965. Over the years the diplomatic initiative between the two countries has intensified more and more and the Agreements and Protocols of Understanding have been updated and modelled on the needs of the signatories. Moreover, if we analyse the historical data of South Korea we can only see the progressive economic and demographic growth of that country: in 1965, the year of the first agreement, South Korea had 28 million inhabitants; today it counts 50 million. In 1965 the per capita income was 79 US dollars; Today is 31,000. GDP growth has been steady with peaks of 4% annually. The agreements now being ratified are designed to define a legal framework in which the potential of the respective countries is extrinsic. The first agreement concerns bilateral and multilateral promotion and cooperation relating to culture, education and cultural and archaeological heritage. It is useless to describe to you the interest of that people for Italy, for our arts and our culture. It is even unnecessary to list the tourist attendance data of South Korean visitors in Italy: I can assure you that they are among the most significant on the Asian continent and are constantly growing. The cultural exchange in the musical field has materialized in the stable presence of the pavilion of the biennial Venice entirely dedicated to the Asian country. There is also an increasing interest in Korean cinema, always present in the latest editions of the international exhibition of film art in Venice. The interest of the Koreans in the country of beautiful singing is appreciated in the selections for the singing courses. Just to realize what we are talking about, it is necessary to mention some data: in 1997 in the conservatory of Santa Cecilia in Rome, out of 30 candidates admitted, among the 180 who had applied, 23 were Korean boys. Moreover, according to the latest data collected, almost 3 million young Koreans in conservatives and Western music schools seem to be involved. These are impressive numbers that make us understand the importance of this agreement. The second agreement, which in fact exceeds the previous one in 1984, aims to promote and develop the scientific and technological partnership through agreements between ministries, universities and research centres. Let's remember that also on this side the bilateral interchange has reached altogether 10 billion and 800 million dollars, with a trade surplus to us favoring approximately one billion and 800 million dollars. These figures would suffice to justify the mutual interest in the ratification and enforcement of these agreements. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of bill 678 for the ratification of the Agreements between Italy and the Republic of Korea for scientific, cultural and technological cooperation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u75	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the text amended as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission, with the following title: (a) Agreement on cultural cooperation between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea, made in Rome on 21 October 2005; (b) Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on scientific and technological cooperation, with Annesso, made in Rome on 16 February 2007 (b) Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Korea on scientific and technological cooperation. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u76	The next item is the debate on draft law No 960. The rapporteur, Senator Lucidi, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u77	Mr President, please allow me to deliver the written text of my report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u78	The statement was never so applauded.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u79	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. LUCIDI, rapporteur. Mr President, I shall just mention a few of the main points in the report. The Assembly is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the June 2017 Agreement between Italy and the International Organization of Law for Development (IDLO). I remember that it is the organization that promotes the rule of law and good governance practices in developing countries and in post-conflict situations. The text being ratified is important because it consolidates the presence in Italy of the headquarters of the IDLO, avoiding the risk of its possible transfer abroad. The economic burdens of the bill are valued in total in 326,000 euros annually. The ratification of this Agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, the European Union's legal order and other international obligations entered into by our country. For the reasons I have briefly summarized, I propose the adoption of the draft law by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u80	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Gino Rossi Vairo" in Agropoli, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. Among other things, Agropoli is a country I know for having been there. Thank you for your visit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u81	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u84	Mr Giacobbe (PD). Mr President, here again I would like to be able to give the text of my explanation of vote, although there are two very important aspects that I would like to stress. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. Mr Giacobbe (PD). First of all, the fact that the International Development Law Organisation (IDLO) is an intergovernmental organisation dedicated to promoting the rule of law and good governance practices in developing countries, in economic transition and in countries in post-conflict situations. In this respect, the Organisation also complements the activities of other international organisations, based in Rome and operating in the field of food security and the development of sustainable agriculture. I think it is important to stress that the rule of law is a prior and essential condition in order to pursue and implement sustainable development policies. Mr President, allow me to say that the values of the International Development Law Organisation are also the values in which the Democratic Party is recognised. That is therefore another reason for the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u87	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, I will try to be quick. The IDLO is an intergovernmental organisation dedicated to the promotion of the rule of law and good governance practices in developing countries, in economic transition and in countries with armed conflicts. It should also be remembered that it has observer status at the United Nations headquarters in New York and participates constantly in meetings that concern the issues it deals with; it does so through the formation of lawyers, the production of analytical documents and the promotion of the debate on access to justice, children's law, sustainable development, peace and democracy, health and legal reforms in 47 countries. The IDLO produces studies, advice and high training, with the aim of improving the legal framework of the poor or developing countries, harmonizing it with that of the rich or industrialized countries participating in the organization. From the work of the IDLO many governments take inspiration for reforms of the justice or for regulatory interventions on the topics dealt with by the Organization. It is worth mentioning the intervention of the Organization in Guatemala to protect the rights of indigenous people. In 2014, the IDLO issued a series of specific recommendations to the Government to help strengthen institutions and reduce land-related conflicts in rural areas, supporting a proposal to increase government funding to implement sustainable development projects. The Organisation also promotes the role of women in justice and the adoption of measures to mitigate the causes of gender inequality, especially in Africa, through an analytical report with a series of experiences that have improved women's access to careers in the field of justice. With today's vote we keep open a very important space that also translates into greater opportunities for our lawyers to be able to compare with a wide international panorama directly to Rome. The Movimento 5 Stars has always been a political force attentive to the world of research, both scientific and other technical, because we can enhance our greatest heritage: our researchers, our teachers, our public school and prevent our young people from going abroad to look for opportunities. On the other hand, we must create the conditions, which are obviously many, so that not only scientific research centres, but also organizations such as IDLO, can see Italy as a stimulating cultural centre at a global level. For these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u88	I would like to point out that the draft law, as a whole, has been voted by a simultaneous vote in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u89	The next item is the debate on draft law No 997. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u90	Mr President, if you will allow me, I turn over the text of my report. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u91	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u92	Mr Petrocelli, rapporteur. But let me make a note, Mr President. I am aware that the ratification work which comes to this House and which is superimposed on one another creates a bit of confusion. I must, however, first of all thank the representatives of the Government who took the same attitude as the deputy minister Del Re, listening with great attention and patience to four ratifications carried out quickly. I thank all my colleagues for their cooperation. I'm just making a note. On behalf of the Commission as a whole, as President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, I must stress that it is very uncomfortable at a time when those who have to make explanations of vote or carry out their report of introduction to a measure, with the dignity of any other component of the Commission, take the necessary time, listen to murmurs when the timing of the debate on ratifications goes beyond what someone in this House considers necessary. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] I say this with great frankness, I thank all my colleagues and hope that this will not happen again. I take full responsibility for this statement because the Foreign Affairs Committee, even if it does its work quickly, has the same dignity as any other Commission. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u93	We do not doubt this and we agree, although I think you can also take into account the fact that this House has given broad recognition, practically without any votes against, to the work well done by your Commission. This can also be taken into account. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u96	BITI (PD). Mr President, I will try to stay in time, having prepared only brief notes. The European University Institute is located between Fiesole and Florence and we are grateful to those who preceded us for allowing us, in the history of our territory, to welcome with great enthusiasm the proposal that six European countries made, already in 1972, to create this University Institute, with the aim of promoting research and improvement in the social sciences, as indeed happened. Today, the European University Institute is supported by 22 European countries; 600 students benefit from this school of very high education, which constitutes a global unicum at this level; there are more than 70 teachers and, within the training course, there is an even greater number of characters that, with seminars and special events, really creates courses and a model of training of the highest level. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Government and the European University Institute, which is now before us, proposes to set up another very important school and training course, namely the School of Transnational Public Policies, which aims at the activation of research and training paths on important issues of global governance, such as democracy, rights, finance, trade, climate change and diplomacy; all of which are or at least should be truly dear to this House and all of us should perhaps look at this institution with a sense of openness and greater interest, also for the role we play here. With regard to the Protocol to the Agreement between the Government and the European University Institute, I would also like to stress another fact, which will fall back in a practical way on the Florentine territory and not only with reference to the training of the many students who attend the school and come from more than 60 countries. We will go to recover an important and beautiful container, which is now empty, located in the center of Florence, near the University, which will finally be able to live a new life and will be maintained thanks to the Protocol under consideration. As we have always said, the fundamental objective for the territory of Florence, which we have pursued since the last legislative and administrative mandates, is to transform, reform, restructure and let live the empty containers of the city center. This is certainly a point in the Protocol which I wanted to stress. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech by referring to what I said earlier, namely that we should all look with interest at the European University Institute. You are therefore invited, ladies and gentlemen, to come to Florence in the first days of May to follow the initiative entitled "The State of the Union," which for years now at Palazzo Vecchio has been promoting the knowledge, through the European Institute, of European bodies and we know how important they are to us. I am glad that a measure that sees Europe and European training at the highest level as central and priority can be approved by unanimous vote by the Senate Assembly, as I hope. In order to solve global problems it is not enough and national responses are not appropriate, but we need wide-ranging answers and for us Europe is certainly the breath we need. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Monti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u97	I would like to point out that the draft law, as a whole, has been voted by a simultaneous vote in the amended text as a result of the amendments introduced by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u98	The next item is the holding of questions. First, questions 3-00375 and 3-00610, on the research project on homophobic bullying promoted by the Regional School Office of Umbria, will be carried out. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u99	Mr President, I would like to answer the questions by pointing out that, unlike what appears to emerge in one of the two acts of inspection union in question, this Ministry, together with the other institutional actors, has always worked in full compliance with the rules, trying to guarantee all the various realities and different sensitivities, in the exclusive interest of students, families and all the members of the school world. Tertiarity, impartiality and fairness are the principles that have, in fact, always marked the choices and actions put in place by this Ministry. However, it is necessary to state that the questionnaire on homophobic bullying, the subject of parliamentary questions, is based on a collaboration agreement for the realization of activities of analysis, study, research, training and experimentation aimed at the prevention and the contrast of the phenomenon of homophobic bullying, signed in November 2017 between the Umbria Region, the University of the studies of Perugia, the regional school office, the Office for the guarantor of childhood and adolescence of the Umbria Region and the Omphalos Association. The Regional School Office's commitment under this agreement has been to facilitate and support the dissemination of information in schools for research. It is for this reason that the Regional School Office itself informed the school institutions of the Region - selected by public draw, in order to identify the 54 sample classes - of the start of the research in question, stating that they would be free not to join it. The procedure provided for allowed the transparent involvement of the school communities concerned, through the approval by the collegial bodies of the participation in the research, as well as of the families, through the acquisition of the written consent to the administration and compilation by their children of the questionnaire. In fact, the University of Perugia, at the time of contact with the educational institutions concerned, sent, together with the aforementioned questionnaire, the form for the acquisition of consent by the parents. According to the report sent to this Ministry by the school office concerned, this freedom of choice mechanism has meant that more than 60% of the schools contacted have decided not to participate in the research. It is clear, therefore, that schools have worked in full collaboration with families, receiving requests from them and worrying to fully protect the interests of children. It is no coincidence, in fact, that the note with which the Regional School Office communicated the launch of the research highlighted the absence of constraints and the need to assess the desirability of participation, in view of the school context and the observations of the collegial bodies and parents; an assessment which, as demonstrated by the final number of schools participating in the research, took place. It must be remembered that, always according to the above mentioned report, it was precisely the scientific direction of the research of the University of Perugia that selected the questionnaire from international scientific literature and sent it to the educational institutions, without having submitted the same to the Regional School Office. However, the latter, as soon as it became aware of the questionnaire, taking into account that the same had not been shared and given the impact it had had in the regional school context, formally proceeded to ask the University of the studies of Perugia and the Umbria Region to revise the formulation of the questionnaires and the modalities of realization of the project, suspending, in fact, the operation to start the administration of the questionnaire. In fact, in a clarification communication sent by the University of Perugia to the Regional School Office, it was stated that the questionnaire in question, at the time of the media clamour, was not yet definitive, because, following observations and suggestions mainly from school leaders who had read it, some changes were being made, among which, precisely, the elimination of the part of the questionnaire for the first grade secondary school, containing questions concerning sexual orientation, religious orientation and political orientation. Finally, as reported in the report of the Regional School Office, the final link for the administration of the questionnaire has never been sent to anyone and the administration of the questionnaire has never begun in any school institution. Given this situation, in December 2018 the Regional School Office considered it appropriate to inform the Minister of the request for reformulation of the questionnaires and revision of the procedures for carrying out the project, with consequent suspension of the research. Subsequently, Minister Bussetti made public the suspension of the questionnaires, considering it necessary a deepening and asking, moreover, to revise the formulation of the same and to change the modalities of realization of the plan. In addition to the above, it should be stressed that the lack of membership by more than 60% of the schools involved would not have allowed the recruitment of the necessary sample, thereby reducing the representativeness of the classes. The results obtained, according to the numbers recorded, were, therefore, not corresponding to the reality of the territory and not useful for the analysis of the phenomenon in question. In this scenario, it is necessary to point out that the MIUR has long been engaged in the prevention of the phenomenon of bullying and cyberbullying (as provided for in Law No 71 of 2017) and, more generally, of all forms of violence, activating different strategies of intervention useful to stem certain behaviours at risk, in many cases, from conditions of social distress not attributable only to the school context. In particular: Connected Generations, the interministerial technical table and the project Elisa Platform. In conclusion, these are fundamental instruments because only the training of young people in a culture based on respect can put an end to the heinous episodes of bullying, gender violence and all forms of discrimination.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u102	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank my colleague, Secretary-General of the Government, who believes that he has saved some bullied children with his sad, totally bureaucratic reply, full of meaningless words that do not help. We are not talking, dear Government Secretary, about pieces of paper, resolutions, acts. We're talking about the lives of a lot of kids in our schools. I'm gonna tell her today's Republic, where we read that a little girl wasn't just bullied, but raped by her father and secreted in the house, because she's ashamed of having a lesbian daughter. If you think you have given a comprehensive answer with your note, I invite you to leave the Palace and go to see what happens in schools, in our neighborhoods, in our cities, where, unfortunately, for the immense spread of hatred continues, which is also done, unfortunately, at the very highest levels of our institutions, every diversity is considered to be punished; every diversity is considered a shame; every child, simply because he is wearing a pink shirt and is a male, has to be in some way targeted. That is what I tabled the question, together with my Umbrian colleagues, Senator Ginetti and Senator Grimani. It is on this that the school intervenes in becoming that protective nest in which to teach and those poor children that their diversity is a value and must not be hidden. By blocking that questionnaire you made sure that, perhaps, the only ray of light that could enter some schools, allowing those boys at least the opportunity to report their diversity or say how they feel, was immediately obscured. Mr. Undersecretary, I go to Umbria many times and work with the association Omphalos, which is one of the most important and has managed to obtain in that region the law against homophobia. That's the real point. We put homophobia on the same level as all other violence, such as feminicide and all crimes against the person, and with the same ethical and moral stigma with which every manifestation of hatred must be struck. I read with extreme pain that your Ministry will participate in that hate festival that will open in a few days in Verona - and perhaps should not - against which we have made a calm demonstration, asking that at least the logo of the Presidency of the Council - since yours is a Ministry without a wallet, you cannot do it on your own - is not present on the flyer. In that great manifestation of the families of the world there are people who, in their country, believe that the death penalty - or who knows what else - must be given to homosexuals and women who interrupt pregnancy or are against divorce. Attention: it is the school that forms the new citizens and educates even where the family abandons you and your neighborhood rejects you. School can be a nest, if it is respectful of all values and diversity, as our Constitution teaches us and as it is written in Articles 2 and 3. In your words, I find nothing that can protect and those kids who are victims of homophobic bullying. But I want to refer not only to homophobic bullying, but to bullying in general, of all those who punish a diversity, instead of valorizing it. I would like to see clear words on this in the next programs of the Ministry, in accordance with Article 3 of the Constitution. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Masini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u105	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the parents' associations who have denounced the abuse that was taking place in the Umbrian schools, and to inform the Ministry promptly of what was being administered - or was likely to be administered - to their children. Mr Undersecretary, with your decision - and I thank you for that - the Ministry wanted to ensure a relationship of trust between the school and the family, which cannot be betrayed in any way. I would remind the Democratic Party that, in addition to Article 33 of the Constitution, Article 30 is also in force, which establishes the educational priority of parents with regard to the choices and the type of education to be given to their children. I also recall that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states, in Article 26, that parents have a right of priority in choosing the kind of education to be given to their children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has been ratified by our country, states that the State, in its activity in the field of education and teaching, will respect the right of parents to ensure education and teaching according to their religious and philosophical convictions. This educational alliance between the family and the school is - in our view - indispensable and priority and episodes like what was happening in Umbria are repeated continuously. It is news these days that what happened in Bari with the questionnaires on sexual education, in which it was explained to the children, with explicit terms that I am ashamed to repeat in this House, how to use their own genital organs. So if, according to the Democratic Party, this is the fight against bullying, we are convinced that this is the exact opposite: this is bullying children [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , bullying few invaded who with our children want to do their social experiments completely unacceptable. The facts are hard to deny and, therefore, let's go get the questionnaire that was being given to our children and read what was written there. To force a ten-year-old girl to choose whether to define herself exclusively heterosexual, or to define herself as heterosexual, or to define herself as either mainly heterosexual, or to define herself as a "bisexual" or "mostly homosexual," or "only homosexual" or "asexual" is something vomitable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a shame that someone thinks they can indoctrinate our children in this unacceptable way. How, moreover, is it a shame that those minors are forced, in the minds of some researcher, to associate this question with other two contiguous ones related to their religious sentiment: Â how important do you consider religion in your life Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â you define yourself as the extreme left, left, left, centre, centre, right or right or extreme right? This about a ten - year - old child is something scandalous. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No more education against homophobia! This is political-ideological indoctrination. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] I say this very clearly to the Senators of the Democratic Party: as long as we are there, these filths will not be given to our children. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Croatti]] The fight against bullying is done by involving families and not against families; it is done by educating children to respect the body and not sexualizing them prematurely; it is done by using common sense and not silly searches of pukey ideology. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To do all this there is an instrument that the law provides and that the Ministry has recently confirmed authoritatively. [[Comments from Senator Bellanova.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u106	Senator, don't bother. Senator Pillon is just doing his surgery without offending anyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u107	Please, Senator, continue. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying, to do these things there is an instrument that is that of informed consent, which allows families to be informed in advance of the contents they want to administer to their children and to legitimately decide whether those contents are considered appropriate for their children or not. But if the informed consent is the stuff that was given to Umbrian parents, in which we read: I, the undersigned, as parent of the parent, shall, by means of the reply to the questionnaire, inform nothing of the fact that I agree to the participation of my son or daughter in the investigation by means of the reply to the questionnaire. This is not an informed consent, but it is a mockery, a take on parents and tell them the story of the bear. But parents no longer accept such abuse. We have sentries all over Italy, standing, sitting. Any kind of abuse will be reported, reported, intercepted, blocked. I invite Senator Cirinna, the President and everyone present in this Chamber to come to the feast of the family of Verona: it will not be the feast of hatred, but it will be the feast of the family [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , of the smile, of the tomorrow, of the life, of the future, of the beauty, of the wonder that exists in every family of our country, in every family that exists in the world. In this sense, President... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u108	Thank you. Your speech is quite clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u109	[[Senator Cirinna's comments.]] ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). She was born to a family too!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u110	Following is the question 3-00138 on the reform of telephone interceptions introduced with the decree milleproroghe. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u111	Mr President, with this act of inspection union, the interrogating senators, in referring to the extension of the entry into force of certain provisions on the reform of interceptions, carried out by Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017, recalling statements that the Minister of Justice would have made in the margin of the extension under discussion - such as, for example, " (..) We can say that every time one of the PD was heard by the citizens, the PD cut the line, communications (...) The rule that we blocked, I repeat, was detrimental to all the rights at stake: the possibility first of all to carry out the investigations, giving the judicial police the possibility to choose which interceptions were relevant and which were not, an activity that must belong to the PM but that in this case it was cut out of - ask them to know of what information the Minister is in possession of to say that whenever someone of the PD was heard, there was the PD who tried to cut the line and communications, on the basis of which law of the State, with how and with what purpose he obtained this information and if he does not feel necessary, given the seriousness of the facts reported, to inform Parliament immediately, if he does not think that his assertions have been seriously detrimental to the prerogatives and duties of the judiciary and the Judicial Police and if he does not consider that, in his role as Minister of Justice, he is obliged to respect the application of the laws in force. In this House, the same considerations already made in this House last August on a similar question time can only be reiterated. In consistency with what the Minister of Justice said also in the previous role of representative of the Movimento 5 Stars, it is necessary first to recognize the important role of the mass media in the democratic dialectic for the maturation of an active and conscious citizenship with respect to the political events of our country, without prejudice to the full respect of the prerogatives of the judiciary. This is a logical and elementary corollary of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the free manifestation of thought. Starting from these premises, there is an obligation to specify that the statements to which the act of inspection union refers derive not from the availability of confidential information by this Minister, but from a careful observation by the parliamentary iter on the bill of reform of the criminal process containing also the delegation to the Government for the revision of the discipline in the matter of the publication of the interceptions. In fact, it is worth recalling the singular acceleration of parliamentary work on the aforementioned provision and indeed the bill was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2014 and was transmitted to the Chamber of Deputies only on 23 December 2014, more than four months later and after the arrests carried out in the context of the Mafia Capital investigation, in which the involvement of some members of the Roman Democratic Party had emerged. After about six months, on July 25, 2015, in a night session of the Chamber's Justice Commission, the well-known Pagan amendment on the right to broadcast footage and recordings of conversations between individuals was approved, where, among the causes of exclusion of criminality, the exercise of the right of news was not included; this amendment, then appropriately modified in the final version because of the alarming repercussions on freedom of the press. The night sitting had been assessed by the then-necessary majority for a prompt transmission of the text to the House. In fact, on the following 27 July 2015, the text of the bill arrived in the Chamber Hall for discussion, all a few days after the publication on "The Daily Fact" of the well-known conversation between the then Premier Matteo Renzi and the interregional commander of the Finance Guard Michele Adinolfi, acquired as part of the investigations of the Public Prosecutor of Naples on the matter CPL Concordia, as well as the following day of the publication on "The Express" of the conversation between the then governor of Sicily Rosario Crocetta and the doctor Matteo Tutino. Again, on May 19, 2017, after the publication of the conversation between the then Prime Minister and his father, in the context of the Consip affair, it was precisely the previous watchmaker, Mr Andrea Orlando, who signalled the opportunity to proceed to the approval of the bill for the main purpose of averting such journalistic propaliazioni. Therefore, those statements arise, in evidence, from the singular coincidence between the emergence of judicial events involving representatives of the Democratic Party and the sudden acceleration of the parliamentary process. The Ministry of Justice's approach to the subject of interceptions starts from the recognition of the central and inescapable role that this means of research of evidence plays in the field of investigations. Precisely for this reason, the Minister of Justice, in the perspective of the confrontation that has always distinguished its work, has intended to treat a special intercourse with all the requisitioning offices of the territory, from which have emerged various criticalities of the reform that cannot be ignored and that still require an in-depth reflection on the consequences that descend from it. In this direction, the so-called "milleproroghe" decree, with which the entry into force of Legislative Decree n. 216 of 2017, has been further procrastinated, in order to reserve a reasonable spatium deliberandi in which to seek, in an improved perspective, an optimal declination of the balance between defensive guarantees and investigative efficiency. The decision, in fact, responds to the need to reconsider the overall structure of the reform, with the aim of finding a fair and balanced contemplation between equally priority needs, namely the efficiency of investigations, the correct distribution of institutional functions between the prosecutor and the judicial police and the full protection of the right of defence.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u114	VALENT (PD). Mr President, as much as possible to answer and speak with the Secretary-General, I believe that the statements you have made to this House today make those made by Minister Bonafede even more serious, which, to be honest, we would have liked to have come to this House, having already waited many months for a reply to the question put. We would therefore have hoped that today he would be the one to answer, because we had asked him exactly what he had said not only in a rather irrational way, but definitely irresponsible and disrespectful, so much above all of the figure that Mr Bonafede himself still holds, as Minister of Justice, as well as of the Assembly, of political forces and I would say even of the institutional system of this country. You, Mr Undersecretary, today allow yourself to endorse and defend Mr Bonafede's statements by referring to singular coincidences. I am not going to argue with you and the government, even if, even in five minutes, I would have the opportunity to report to this House how many unique coincidences we have faced since the beginning of the parliamentary term to the present day, compared to the measures you have brought us. But you speak of singular coincidences with regard to very serious statements made not by any ordinary citizen on the street, but by the Minister of Justice. A Minister of Justice is allowed to say and to accuse a political force and its representatives of having written, proposed, supported and approved in Parliament rules in relation to events that occurred at that time, in order to avoid and cover them. Meanwhile, singular coincidences seem to me very little to make accusations of this kind, since today you have not brought us any valid reason or motivation: if you had, we imagine that you would probably have acted differently, as your institutional duty would have imposed you. We understand that for you institutional duty is something far from what you think, but probably, if you had done it from yours, you would have had to do much more. So you do not have such facts - in fact today you have not come to tell us them - that the Minister of Justice of that time and of today would even have come to do that kind of illations. However, we had also asked other questions and the Minister of Justice in a special way asked how it is possible and in what legal and institutional system it is alive, having even come to say that the interceptions must be made to allow the citizens to listen: in what guarantee system does Minister Bonafede live? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] He even came to support this because we had come to an understanding after having carried out a careful analysis: he too, therefore, acknowledges that there had been a complicated work. Moreover, the discipline of interceptions is not really easy to regulate, so much so that many have tried it over time, without success. According to Minister Bonafede, therefore - almost to our demerit - after listening, we had even found an agreement between the judiciary and the lawyer, to whom he refers, and a rule that agreed all. This is the proof of fraud, that is, to govern well, to listen, to dialogue with the parties, to find complicated understandings, so to put time [[Applause from the PD Group]] : We do not need propaganda, in fact, but serious, rigorous and punctual answers, which try to address the problems of the justice system as well; for Minister Bonafede, instead, it meant making an agreement to cover something - look a bit - always because of that singular coincidence to which you referred, Mr. Undersecretary. But we are not used to the people's tribunal, unlike you. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] So for you, it was the citizens who had to listen to politicians. For us it is the magistrates - look at the banality I say to you today - who must eventually, when necessary, listen and evaluate [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because only with the competence and rigour proper to a magistrate can it be decided what I use to make, in the course of an investigation, a judgment and a trial, statements issued by a politician. It is not the citizens who have to listen to those interceptions. This is what we were asking Minister Bonafede to account for, only for this. You have once again missed the opportunity today to demonstrate not only that you have the sense of the institutions but that a Minister of Justice, before making statements of a certain kind, must realize the sensitivity of his role and his function. You missed the opportunity to show us that you work in the interests of the country and not just your propaganda. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u115	Following is the question 3-00482 on the lack of staff of the Prison Police in the prison of Giarre. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u116	Mr President, with the act of trade union inspection in epigraphs of the interrogating senators, in recalling the situation of the prison of Giarre (open in 1993 as a mansion house and intended at first to accommodate only drug addicts from other institutions, recognized in 2000 as a low-care institution for drug addicts and then became, from 2008, a place for the detention of also common prisoners) highlighting in particular the overcrowding of the restricted population (which has 68 units compared to the 58 places available) and the lack of 9 units of prison police personnel (consisting of 25 effective units out of 31 formally assigned, against the 79 units provided at the time of opening the structure) ask whether the Minister is aware of what is exposed and whether he does not consider it urgent to intervene to remedy the condition of structured lack of staff caused by the linear cuts of the so-called Midia reform, also in order to restore normal working conditions, with the reactivation of essential service posts, ensuring adequate security to the institute. As for the organic endowment, it turns out that at the institute of Giarre are actually in service, net of the postings in and out, a total of 33 units, compared to an organic forecast of 34 units referred to the measure of the head of the department 29 November 2017, developed in application of ministerial decree 2 October 2017. The only deficiency is recorded in the role of supervisors, compared to which one of the four planned units is missing. This is clearly a margin of coverage which, if properly related to the context of the whole national territory, can be defined as modest. To contain its criticality, moreover, converges also the data relative to the prison population, since on the date of last 7 January were present at the structure of Giarre 62 prisoners regarding the 58 previewed, coming in relief a much lower rate of overcrowding regarding the national average, pairs to approximately 126 percent. Moreover, the overall relationship between the prison police force and prisoners is 56.5%, as such in line with the national average. In any case, among the priorities of the Ministry of Justice are the initiatives aimed at strengthening the contingent of the Prison Police and consequently restoring conditions of greater security in Italian prisons. In this direction is entered the significant allocation of resources equal to 71,5 million euros for the three-year period 2019-2021, provided for by the budget law for 2019 and with which was planned the recruitment of 1,300 units of the prison police force in the year 2019 and 577 units in the period 2020-2023, precisely in order to increase the efficiency of the penitentiary institutions, also taking into account the indisputable needs of prevention and contrast of the spread of the ideology of terrorist matrix in prison. In addition, 976 Deputy Inspectors, who attended the training course just completed, are expected to take part. On the other hand, as regards the role of supervisors, the procedures for the internal competition are still under way totalling 2,851 posts for the appointment to the position of deputy supervisor of the male and female role of the Body. Moreover, with reference to the organic endowment of the surrounding house of Giarre, it must be said that the same has benefited from the recent increase of two male units in the role of agents-assistants, through ordinary mobility linked to the placing in role of students agents of the 173rd course perfected last September.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u119	ANASTASI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply. The Province of Catania has long awaited this kind of interest. The situation of the Giarre district house has in fact been the subject of several parliamentary questions in the past, but unfortunately the previous governments have never been able to give an answer, neither verbal nor effective. I am obliged to recall that, just a year ago, some trade union acronyms protested at the prefecture of Catania, denouncing the working conditions of prison police officers forced on massacred shifts, with risk also for the same security of the surrounding house. As a result of the cuts due in particular to the Law Madia, which reduced the agents from 44 to 39 and then to 34, as well as the effect of retirements and diseases, we saw a reduction of the staff to 29 units, which even made it impossible to carry out the most basic services. Suffice it to say that the access box to the surrounding house is often cleared and the gate must be kept closed, because no one can control the movements in and out. In the same way, we cannot even think of carrying out other services, such as accompaniments: so, when a prisoner must be accompanied to the hospital, which is 30 kilometers away, or to the court, which is just as far away, a unit must be detached from another surrounding house. These units must come to Giarre, they must take the prisoner, they must accompany him back to Catania, then they must accompany him back to Giarre and return to Catania again, therefore with a huge waste of resources. I am very satisfied with the planned introduction of new units: this comforts me very much. Of course, I hope that these recruitments will be allocated in part to the surrounding house in Giarre. Therefore, as I am satisfied with the answer, I will continue to pay attention to the matter, until the whole solution is found. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u120	The following is the question 3-00272 on the situation of degradation in the area called "Bischetto di Rogoredo" in Milan, several times to the honours of the chronicle. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem raised by the interrogating senators, concerning the degradation in the city of Milan of the area also known as the "boschetto di Rogoredo" (the grove of Rogoredo), which is adjacent to the railway station of the same name and the meeting of drug dealers and drug addicts, is constantly maintained by the provincial public security authority and the law enforcement authorities. The deterioration and precarious security conditions of that area were, moreover, the subject of an ad hoc session of the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, chaired last autumn by the Minister of the Interior, which confirmed the commitment to a more incisive activity of prevention and countering drug dealing in the areas of the park, in order to achieve a definitive resolution of the problem, also ensuring full support for specific projects of the Municipality of Milan. The commitments entered into there have been translated into a series of initiatives on three fundamental lines: urban and environmental regeneration of the area, preventive health care and the strengthening of the prevention and combating of drug trafficking and drug use. Under the first aspect, it is informed that the Italian Railway Network (RFI) has completed already in September 2018 the construction near the railway station of Milan-Rogoredo of a wall in reinforced concrete 600 meters long in order to avoid the continuous climbs and the undue crossings of the tracks, besides having carried out works of buffering of the accesses. The same company has also planned the construction of the new video surveillance system for a total of 85 cameras, the start of which is expected within the current year. Analogous control system will also be realized in the stations of Lambrate, Greco Pirelli, Porta Garibaldi and in the station of Pavia. Further initiatives of economic and social redevelopment of the area see the active involvement of Region, Municipality and police forces for the rapid start of a project of urban recovery focused on the realization in the area in question of the Ice Palace, in view of the eventual assignment of the winter Olympics of 2026 in Milan and Cortina. In the same direction we point out the possible realization of a project for the transfer of the seat of the Exodus foundation inside the park. From the health point of view, on the other hand, it has already been planned to launch a specific project - developed between the Lombardy Region in agreement with the City of Milan and with the involvement of the private social - to discourage drug use, reduce the damage to the usual recruiters and ensure immediate relief on the spot. The expected increase in the number of days and in the time of presence of health professionals on the spot will also allow to intensify the targeted approach to occasional consumers, with particular regard to minors. With regard to the more specific side of the contrast to drug dealing, it is evident that in the area in question the daily controls insured by the Forces of Order have been constant for some time. There have been many police operations which have led to the raising of administrative sanctions and the seizure of drugs, as well as the adoption of compulsory leaflet measures against non-resident recruiters. In particular, around 1,000 people were checked in the area in the last quarter. This activity, carried out by the State Police, the Carabinieri's Army and the local police - which I take the opportunity to thank - has had the following results: 24 people arrested, 45 reported, 90 reported for the application of the obligatory street leaflet measures by the public safety authority; about 800 controlled vehicles; about 3 kilos of drugs seized. Finally, as for the desired activation of a permanent garrison of the railway police in the station of Milan Rogoredo, it is informed that the Department of Public Security, reevaluating the reasons that had brought to its closure in 2004, has decided to restore it by providing an employee of 18. To this end, the premises which will host the new garrison have already been identified and the procedures for implementing the necessary structural measures have been initiated. In the more institutions of the new department, however, the staff of the Polfer of Milan-Lambrate - that since 2004 has absorbed the territorial competence on the port of call of Rogoredo - has already been strengthened with the allocation of two units that have recently added to the effective staff, now pairs to 35 units, thus allowing an increase of the controls with reference to the railway area object of this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u124	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, the Government's response is not very up-to-date, but I would like to stress our insistence, of which this question has been an element because it has long been that, even with several interventions at the end of the session, we insist that there be an intervention at the grove of Rogoredo aimed at allowing, with an intervention and a massive presence of the Forces of order, the Municipality of Milan to complete the restoration of the area of Porto di mare, which - I remember - was 34 hectares that were healed. In fact, the grove remained, where two shops were concentrated, which were, as the President knows, the piazza di speccio for the whole of Lombardy. We note with satisfaction that our insistence has been rewarded, that the insistence of the City of Milan has been rewarded, that today the Forces of the Order have intervened in a massive way and that there are the conditions to heal the last piece and Italy Nostra is already at work for this. We also take note that the theme of the station of Rogoredo - which among other things, I remember, is also a station of transit and stop of the high-speed trains - was finally taken over. The headquarters of Polfer has been opened - I say this to the Undersecretary - and the necessary staff have been assigned. All this is fine and I take advantage of this intervention to make the next step. Now we have to conclude the restoration, but it becomes decisive for the city to avoid, at this point, moving the shopping squares and creating others in the neighboring neighborhoods. I believe, therefore, that intervention by law enforcement agencies to guard those neighbourhoods must be maintained, precisely in order to prevent the effect of a very positive result, such as the total restoration of the Rogoredo grove, from turning into a problem for other parts of the city. I also think it is necessary, given that the Milan-Rogoredo station continues to be a destination and point of arrival for many drug users, that Polfer's garrison is maintained there, along with an adequate presence of services, which can also help consumers on the ground. In fact, as the problem of combating drug trafficking has been raised on the prefecture table, there is also a problem of helping drug addicts and thus involving services. I think we are heading in the right direction and we must not lower our guard at all, but we must prevent a positive fact from turning into a negative fact for other parts of the city. On this, in addition to the Municipality, which is already operating, the Forces of Order must not be demobilized.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u125	Following is the question 3-00466 on the situation of degradation in the district of San Berillo Vecchio in Catania. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the old neighborhood of San Berillo is one of the areas of Catania with a high crime rate; in fact, in its area there are several crumbling and abandoned buildings, occupied also by foreign citizens, some of which are involved in criminal activities, in particular in drug dealing, prostitution and the sale of counterfeit goods. In this regard, it is recalled that in this district last year the law enforcement authorities referred 37 foreigners, almost all of whom were of Gambian nationality, to the judicial authority for drug trafficking, many of whom were just 18 years old, also contesting 34 administrative offences for the possession of drugs for personal use. In order to increase safety in the city and to combat, in particular, the phenomenon of drug dealing, the prefect of Catania, in the Provincial Committee for Public Order and Security, with the participation of the prosecutor of the Republic of Catania and the metropolitan mayor, has developed a strategy aimed at increasing the surveillance activity of the territory, mainly concentrated in those areas with a higher crime rate. To this end, just from the neighborhood of San Berillo, on the night of November 22, 2018, extraordinary and coordinated services of control of the territory have taken place, with the employment of approximately 80 units between State Police, Carabinieri, Finance Guard, with the support of the military engaged in the operation Safe roads, the Municipal Police and the Fire Department. This initiative has made it possible to monitor 70 persons and 29 means; to detect 29 violations of the road code, resulting in the application of several ancillary sanctions, such as kidnappings and administrative detentions; to refer eight persons to the judicial authority for the crime of production, trafficking and illicit possession of narcotic substances; to carry out two searches in flagrant crime; to carry out three drug seizures; to arrange for the closure of certain businesses due to the lack of the prescribed authorisations and to impose the related fines. On a regular basis, similar operations are planned in other districts at risk of Catania to reaffirm the presence of the State in the territory. It is also informed that in recent days an important police operation called Stella cassante has ended in the San Cristoforo district, which has led to the arrest of 37 people, 3 of whom were minors at the time of the commission of the crimes, held responsible for various types of association aimed at the trafficking and trafficking of narcotic substances. In conclusion, it is evident that on a more general level, with the so-called security and immigration decree, the Government has introduced several provisions that affect aspects related to the fight against widespread crime and to the improvement of the security conditions of the cities, through the innovation and the strengthening of the institutions and the instruments of prevention and contrast of the different criminal types, be they common or or organized. In particular, the instrumental equipment and operational faculties of the municipal police have been strengthened, with provisions on access to the CED forces and experimental use of common weapons with electrical impulse (the so-called Taser model). Specific measures have also been envisaged in the area of the prevention of crimes of major social concern, and in the area of prevention the scope of the so-called urban DASPO has been extended. Finally, the measures aimed at combating the phenomenon of the abusive occupation of real estate, through the tightening of the penalties imposed against promoters or organizers of the invasion, are certainly of impact. The Government trusts, therefore, that the application of the new provisions, together with the continuation of the action of coordination of the police forces with the institutions present on the territory - already started by the prefecture of Catania - can produce in the near future results even more satisfactory in the action of restoration of legality in the areas of the capital characterized by greater criticalities.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u127	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u129	DRAGO (M5S). Mr President, kind Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the outcome of the question and I have heard the speeches made in our city, taking into account the fact that San Berillo is a district in the historic centre of Catania. I hope that these are not just extraordinary interventions, but that there will be attention which has the character of ordinaryity. I am sorry, however, that I did not receive any reply from the Ministry of Education, University and Research. I had also addressed the question to this Ministry, stressing the presence of underage pushers. The hypothesis was to evaluate a correspondence between the school dispersal and their presence in those territories. The activity, if we want to define it, of these guys is in fact present not only in the neighborhood we talk about, but in various neighborhoods at risk of the area of Catania. I hope that the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence will be taken as a reference. We always say that children are the future of our Italy; if that is the case, we must start from the present to preserve the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u130	The neighborhood of San Berillo has an ancient history and I also count on the commitment of the Undersecretary
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u131	Mr President, the Agency for the Promotion of Italian Enterprises (ICE) abroad was established, as is well known, by Article 14 of Decree-Law No 98 of 2011. The current legislation provides for a fund to cover the costs of the activity and a fund to cover the operating costs and the expenses of a compulsory nature. The spirit of the reform can be summed up in the legislator's desire to maintain the implementing body of government policies of internationalization within public administrations, thus leading to a strong cost reduction, entrusted to a new organizational formula more agile and more efficient. It is important to point out that the total amount allocated to the ICE in 2018 amounted to approximately EUR 140 million, while the sum of EUR 177 million mentioned in the parliamentary question refers to a total of more than one item. In 2017, ICE's activity recorded the participation of well over 19,000 companies in promotional events organized to promote the internationalization of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, on the basis of particular needs dictated by the economic situation, it has emerged the need to add to the annual fund for the ordinary activity of the Agency additional financial envelopes, arranged with specific laws aimed at determining its size and specific purposes. As for the framework of resources for 2019, in particular, I represent that the resources allocated to the Plan for the extraordinary promotion of Made in Italy and the attraction of investments in Italy have gone from 130 to 140 million euros. The availability of funds for the Ordinary Promotion Plan, the Made in Italy Plan and the South Export Plan are essentially confirmed. Overall, therefore, despite the well-known financial constraints that have characterized the construction of the fiscal law for 2019, of which we are all aware, it has been possible to integrate already the most important flywheel of promotional resources in support of export to give greater visibility to our products in the international markets and therefore favor the Italy system. With regard to the priority promotional lines for 2019, the allocation of resources between the different macro-initiatives is characterised by some new features. Firstly, an increase in resources to support the increased use and visibility of Italian companies on platforms and marketplaces of international e-commerce. Secondly, the launch of the innovative project High street Italia, which involves the setting up of permanent system showrooms in the main world capitals - the pilot project, which we are continuing, is being launched in Seoul, Shanghai and Osaka - in which to concentrate and give visibility to the quality products characteristic of Made in Italy of large brands, alongside productions of small and medium-sized enterprises, united by a common storytelling, that exalts the characteristics of historical, cultural and taste uniqueness of the Italian style. The budget for this type of communication initiatives rose from 16 million euros last year to 23 million euros in 2019. Thirdly, a special focus on supporting the internationalisation of our start-up and innovative companies, through a project that, on the model of what has already been achieved with the measure of TEM vouchers (Temporary export manager), supports them in accessing the services of important incubators and business accelerators abroad. With regard to the framework of missions for 2019, in implementation and in programming, they are agreed and in line with the decision of the Governing Cabin for Internationalization and include: System Missions in the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Australia and Mexico; Follow-up Missions in India, Vietnam, Brazil and Albania; Government to Government (G2G) Missions in Canada, Russia and Mexico and Business to Business (B2B) Missions in China, Japan, Kenya, Morocco and Tunisia. Therefore, the differentiation between medium-term and extraordinary programming would allow the public decision-makers to check in a timely manner whether the short-term extraordinary policies have reached their target, remodulating them where necessary. The ministerial directives expressed annually by the interministerial management booth and given to the Agency clearly distinguish, in fact, the long-term objectives of the action in favour of the internationalization of the national production system from those of short-term, generally sectoral or geographical matrix. The differentiation of funds would therefore also respond to the need to balance the reprogramming of initiatives. The Ministry of Economic Development, in any case, in the performance of its supervisory function, will constantly monitor the management performance of the institution, in order to know its actual needs. The same internal reorganization carried out recently is in fact aimed at the progressive recovery of efficiency margins of the institution itself and its activity.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u134	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Geraci. What he said goes to strengthen even more the reality and the work that the Ministry of Economic Development is doing in recent months in approaching foreign markets. The development of Made in Italy goes inexorably through the careful and timely evaluation of the individual foreign markets, each with its specificity. Italian exports in recent years have been a driving force for our economy, seriously affected by the crisis, contributing to the maintenance of entire production sectors. I myself, having a long experience in the ceramic industry, can confirm how the growth of sales outside our country has been fundamental for the survival of dozens of Italian companies. The ICE, therefore, plays this very important linking role, providing Italian companies with the know-how of a large agency in the opening of a non-European channel. Over the years the Institute has contributed to the internationalization of hundreds of Italian companies with activities such as training, assistance to companies, attraction of investments, strategic communication, strengthening of national supply chains, organization and mediation for international trade fairs. In addition, in the large global market, all major economies have specialised internationalisation agencies. Just to mention a few countries, France, Brazil, Australia, China, Spain, Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom all have agencies that get more than twice the funding of our Institute for Foreign Trade. Unfortunately, recent years and the latest legislation have seen a far from positive transformation of the ICE. The former Minister Calenda, with his extraordinary plan for Made in Italy, has shifted the ordinary financing of the ICE transforming it, in fact, in a predominantly extraordinary form, refinanced year after year. It is precisely in order to return to normality in the multiannual planning of the activities of the institute that it is necessary to return to normal funding sufficient to the functioning of its structure. Minister Di Maio has given a strong impetus to this, first of all with a great personal commitment to missions outside Europe to promote the growth of commercial partnerships. The international market is tough and competitive. We must not face this challenge with fear, but by investing and increasingly encouraging our companies to open up to new markets outside national borders. Job creation also comes from these things. So much has been done, so much still to be done, but we are on the right track. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u135	The questioning on the agenda has come to an end. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.57 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u136	The next item is the immediate questions (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, the Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government and the Minister for Public Administration will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Ruspandini has the right to explain the question 3-00667 on initiatives to strengthen the local and regional public transport offer, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u137	Mr President, Minister, while we are wondering about the amletical question of yes TAV-no TAV, or perhaps the appropriate definite article to use, whether "the TAV" or "the TAV" (which reminds us of the torment of the VAR-il VAR), we also try to understand what this Government intends to do, with its endless analyses of the relationship between costs and revenues. And while we are engaged in these things, millions of our "invisible" fellow citizens, who create a phenomenon that we could call Italian commuting because it affects half of our national population, come across, have to do and suffer our local rail transport system, which has long been in extremely critical conditions. I do not want to be repetitive, because these are problems known to so many and which we have also discussed in the Commission which deals with transport. However, there are really too many problems, both from a logistical and a sanitary point of view, that our commuters have to suffer: delays, lack of direct connections, infiltrations, the presence of insects and mice, poor lighting, inactible toilets, dirty seats, old environments and lack of heating and safety. These and many others are the critical issues that travelers face every day. In view of the many triumphalist announcements from members of the current majority, there is no effective multiannual investment plan to be implemented in support of mobility. We therefore ask what measures this Government intends to take to resolve the problems highlighted in the premise and to relaunch, through appropriate investments, the offer for commuters and local public transport. Minister, one thing does not rule out the other. We are for great works. You may be against this, but this does not exclude the redevelopment of our regional and local rail network, the safety of bridges, viaducts and tunnels, and the implementation of safety and prevention systems. Regardless of what we call it - the TAV or the TAV - we must not turn this work into an alibi, a weapon of mass distraction. It's, as always, our commuters who make the most of it. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u138	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u139	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Ruspandini and the other interrogators. The first thing I say is that we are not against great works. We are against the great useless works and we are totally, deeply and ferociously in favor of the great useful works. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This government has set up an economic policy line focused on relaunching public investment, in order to stimulate the country's economy and start a season of greater economic and social growth. In particular, today, the strengthening of local public transport is one of the main objectives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. The local public transport investment programme for the period 2014-2033 is financed by state funds of more than €13 billion, as well as regional co-financing of about €1.5 billion. These resources are intended for the renewal of the bus fleet, the renewal of rolling stock for urban railways, the safety of isolated rail networks and the enhancement of rapid mass transport. In particular, resources have been allocated to this end, from the fund established under the 2016 Stability Act, amounting to about 2.4 billion, which will be financed to carry out projects already in the coming months. As for the investments on the national railway net, with the new contract of program with RFI, valid until 2021, we have destined 2 billion for participations of put in safety; almost 700 million for investments in technologies for the efficiency of the lines and the plants; approximately 1,3 billion for the valorization of the regional nets; almost 900 million for the potenziamento and the development of the infrastructures of the metropolitan nodes; approximately 700 million for new connections with the airports and the ports. The attention to commuters also goes to the renewal of the regional fleet of Trenitalia, which has already supported 2 billion investments for the purchase of 285 new trains. By 2024 more than EUR 5 billion will be allocated for the purchase of new trains. With the next update to the program contract additional resources of about 6 billion euros will be devoted to railway investments, whose distribution will certainly take into account the needs of the territories and the need to modernize the technologies and raise the levels of safety. Personally, I would add that once the new board of directors of Ferrovie dello Stato has been appointed, the first thing I will tell the new CEO will be to follow commuting, commuters and the efficiency of services in favour of those who daily, getting up early in the morning and maybe coming back late in the evening, take the local public transport. I bring you an example: the Trenord in Lombardy, which represents the railway structure with the greatest number of daily users, has recorded excellent improvements once brought to the table the president of the Lombardy Region Fontana and that of Ferrovie dello Stato, coordinated by the undersigned; these improvements are not sufficient, but at least we have begun. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u140	Senator Ruspandini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u141	Mr President, I listened carefully to the Minister both in the Commission and to the question time in the House. Unfortunately, being commuting, I must say that the situation does not improve. I hope that the good intentions will finally be followed by concrete facts, because the situation for Italian commuters has not improved at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u142	Senator Ferrero has the right to explain the question 3-00672 on the restoration of infrastructure damaged by a landslide in Quincinetto, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u143	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my speech deals with the safety of a landslide movement on the A5 motorway at the Municipality of Quincinetto, on the border between the Piedmont and Valle d'Aosta regions, where a landslide of about half a million cubic metres of rock and debris has resumed to move in recent months with a certain intensity, constituting a serious danger to the A5 Turin-Aosta motorway with potential repercussions on the town. ARPA Piemonte has been monitoring the landslide movement since 2012. The displacement of the stone blocks only in December 2018 was quantified in 12 cm; this was most likely due to heavy rainfall in the autumn period. The measurements of the movements were also detected through a real-time monitoring system implemented from October 2018 by the municipality itself. It turns out that the mayor of Quincinetto, taken note of the situation, has already asked in December 2018 the society of the Valdostan highways (SAV), in charge of the management of the highway section, to independently control the changes and the movements of the landslide, ensuring the warning of the danger to the travelers and the preparation of a plan of intervention in case of necessity, that also previews the closing of the section highway that runs parallel to the mountain. From the monitoring carried out, the surveys would not have shown any anomalies that would make it necessary to close the motorway section. However, if necessary, the closure of potential hazards for motorists passing through the A5 on a daily basis will also have to be assessed in the part affected by the landslide movement. For about two years the payment of 4 million euros from the competent Ministry is expected to guarantee the security of the area. The project has already been approved as an urgent intervention in the various fora. It is a great work for the safety of the whole area through a system of anti-frana terraces preceded by the realization of an alternative road, necessary also for the yards that will be set up. The intervention is considered necessary taking into account that the motorway section in question constitutes the primary access route to the Valle D'Aosta Region and the main connection network between Turin and Aosta. The Minister therefore wonders what measures the Minister intends to take, even in agreement with the Minister of the Environment, to ensure the efficiency of the traffic of the motorway section of the A5 Turin-Aosta in the part affected by the landslide movement of Quincinetto.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u144	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u145	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member. The landslide phenomenon is constantly monitored by both the Municipality of Quincinetto and the Centro di competenza della Protezione civile under mandate of the highway dealership SAV. In order to examine the elements acquired with the monitoring and the identification of any further initiatives aimed at the containment of the risk, the Ministry of the interior has communicated that in the next few days a technical table will be held with the participation of the prefecture of Turin, the Piedmont Region, the Municipality of Quincinetto and the SAV dealership. The latter has already prepared materials and means for the closure of the motorway section in case of anomalies detected by the monitoring systems, measures that may possibly be supplemented by the aforementioned technical table. Moreover, the same company has developed a project, today at the definitive level, which provides for a detected paramassi to protect the highway axis; the project integrates the hydraulic arrangement of a branch of the Dora and also solves some problems of secondary roadway in the sections interfering with the highway. Finally, the Ministry of the Environment informs that on the Rendis system the Piedmont Region has already loaded the hydrogeological defense of the side on the right bank of the river Dora Baltea in Chiappetti, for an amount demanded equal to four million euros. To provide an advance of 10 per cent, the intervention was included in the MEF unit database (BDU) in July 2018, and resources will be available shortly. I conclude by pointing out that - on the basis of a preliminary report already prepared by the Civil Protection Centre - the integrated monitoring system, physical protection devices and emergency civil protection procedures constitute an optimal harmonised risk prevention and intervention system.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u146	Senator Ferrero has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u147	I thank Minister Toninelli for his answer, which demonstrates the sensitivity of this Government for the security of our territories and our road networks. Let's not forget that the section of motorway connection we are talking about is an important fast connection artery between Turin and Aosta and is an essential artery for the tourism sector in any season. It is therefore essential to take urgent action for the safety of those travelling on the motorway and for all the inhabitants of the area. I therefore hope that the resources will be provided quickly so that we can start the site's security work. I still thank the Minister, his Ministry and the Minister for the Environment, whose answer I am satisfied with, with the prayer to speed up the delivery times. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u148	Senator De Poli has the right to explain the question 3-00668 on the realization of the new regional road Padana inferiore in Veneto, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I bring to the attention of this House an important issue, relating to works and construction sites, and therefore to work. On 15 November, in a unified conference, an agreement of the so-called road return plan was approved, in which it is intended to reclassify as roads of national interest, and therefore managed ANAS, 2.713 kilometers of regional and provincial routes, of which, in the specific case, 720 kilometers in Veneto, former ANAS. Among these roads, there is the regional road 10 (SR 10, already state road), which has the objective to connect Monselice (in the province of Padua) to Legnago (in the province of Verona), but which is stopped in Carceri by now more than thirty years. There are seven kilometers from Carceri at the junction of the A31; 10 kilometers to get to Montagnana; it serves about 220,000 inhabitants. This is a small speech, Minister, small, very small. We are not talking about great works, but about works essential for the life and development of those territories; for the development of our companies but also for each of us, for families, for those who live there, for having a future, for our young people. They have been spokesmen of this battle mayors, local administrators, people of all economic categories, associations, committees of citizens of all colors, not of party belongings but of all the colors of that territory. The territory where the regional road is affected 10 is particularly affected by a serious economic and employment crisis and it is essential to complete this work in order to attract investments, to bring new companies and to ensure that the current ones do not close but can have a future. To retrain the industrial and artisan areas of Lower Padua, which has been declared, unfortunately, a non-complex crisis area (district, for example, of the furniture of Casale di Scodosia, of the agro-food industry of Montagnanese), it is fundamental, I would say essential, to add those seven kilometers. Equally crucial is that the Ministry speed up the process of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which seems to have stopped at the Higher Council of Public Works and then arrived at the Commissions responsible. The Veneto Region has asked for the remodulation of the ANAS program contract, asking in particular for the realization of the first functional excerpt of SR10. The Veneto Region, through President Zaia, has already put resources for the intervention of the project both preliminary and executive in all its parts. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator. DE POLI (FI-BP). Therefore, it is only an intervention for the plan to move to ANAS as a redevelopment and at the same time give priority. Dear Minister, no to the Venetian TAV line, which is a small intervention, no to the Venetian Pedemontana, another small intervention, no to the regional road 10, a tiny intervention, a microbe, if we can define it that way, but fundamental for the development of that territory. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u150	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Senator Toninelli, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u151	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Senator De Poli. As pointed out by the senator himself, the revision called "Return roads" has become necessary in the light of the strong territorial asymmetries resulting from the reclassification deriving from the Bassanini reform, as well as the bankruptcy effects of the Delrio reform on the Provinces. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] The decree of the President of the Council of 21 July 2017, in application of article 1, paragraph 140, of the law of stability of 2016, has allocated in the Infrastructure Fund 440 million destined to interventions of reclassification of the road network. Subsequently, in 2018 the Fund was further refinanced for more than € 640 million. To date, therefore, for the investments on the road sections transferred from the Regions to ANAS are allocated resources pairs to beyond a billion euros. The decree by which the Veneto Region has transferred about 700 kilometers of roads to ANAS is currently pending publication in the Official Gazette; therefore, we have finished the iter. In the continuation of the ongoing process, the Ministry will pay the utmost attention to a strategically important work for the development of Lower Padua such as the regional road 10 Lower Padana, without excluding taking into consideration the preliminary project already commissioned by Veneto Roads. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator De Poli to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u152	Mr President, if the Minister' s commitment to ensuring that the process becomes effective is real and concrete - it appears to me that he is still at the top of the public works council, with the exception of the Minister' s instructions - very good. If this is already confirmed in all its aspects, let's see if concretely the resources will be given to Veneto, and consequently as a priority to regional road 10, passing, in the specific case, to state road 10, just to give answers to all those citizens and businesses of that territory that have been waiting for decades for the conclusion of the works from Carceri until the entrance of the highway, and to Montagnana, at least as far as the Province of Padua. I believe and hope, Minister, that your words are real, because you have spoken them here, in the Senate Chamber, so I consider them valid. But I hope that this is not one of the many promises that, once again, become a "no" to a fundamental and small work. She said before doing the small works; I say to do the great works and also to do the small works (on this I share what she said), to give those answers today essential, in the specific case, with the completion of SR10 in the territory of Lower Padua. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u153	Senator Stefano has the right to explain the question 3-00671 on the implementation of the differentiated autonomy of the Regions with ordinary statute, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u154	Minister, to date 13 out of 15 ordinary regions have started the procedure for the recognition of greater autonomy over the central state. Paradoxically, however, the large number of requests is due to the absence of what should be the compass of these processes: I am referring to the definition of uniform criteria that preside over the single evaluation and of procedures capable of achieving an overall agreement with all regions with an ordinary statute on instruments of equalisation of resources. But it's not enough. Along with these two brandish absences, there are further critical issues. The first is the role and function of Parliament, which cannot continue to be the stone guest of the agreements. The second, however, concerns the too smoky precipitate of the results of these different differentiation processes. With regard to the first point, Madam Minister, I merely recall the ratio of paragraph 3 of Article 116, where the additional forms and special conditions of autonomy can be attributed by law of the State. I understand that you want us to get used to the progressive emptying of the legislative function in Parliament; we have seen it with the law of stability and you have proposed it again with the decree milleproroghe and "mille rivoli". But the laws of the State must at least be read, possibly amended, and then, only then, approved by the two Chambers. Yesterday the appeal of 30 constitutionalists arrived, sent to President Mattarella and the Presidents of the Chamber and Senate, in which this strong concern is reiterated for the implementation procedures followed so far and for the concrete risk of a marginalization of Parliament, which is - I remember - the only place of protection of national interests. In addition to asking you, Minister, what the Commission's intentions on this matter are, I would also like to point out the need for a pre-agreement. It is not possible that there is a constitutional change made without hearing the other Regions, because the other Regions are also part of a necessary agreement. In fact, the equality institutions are being called into question, primarily in the areas of health, education and social protection, which serve to implement the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution and which require a choral decision and genuine participation in the decision. Here too, Minister, how and when will this Government be able to define the essential levels of performance? It is a choice that must be made upstream not downstream. We cannot link these rights to the income of residents; we cannot link citizenship and the possibility of exercising our rights to the place of residence. Finally, Mr President, I should like to make a very brief remark. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Stephen. STEFANO (PD). Personally, together with many thousands of citizens, I have signed the petition of Professor Viesti, who, well arguing in fact, summarizes these greater powers, especially to Veneto and Lombardy, as the secession of the rich. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefano, I gave you an extra minute. You have to finish. STEFANO (PD). I'm done, Mr. President. And it is a secession that happens only in appearance with velvet gloves, because basically this Government is trying to put the word end, the tombstone on what is already our Italy split in half... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u155	The Minister for Regional Affairs and Self-Government, Senator Stefani, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u156	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Stefano and the other interrogating senators on the issues raised. I would like to remind you that, in the context of differentiated autonomy, we are talking about the implementation of a constitutional forecast. As indicated by the norm, it is expected that the competences are attributed by law of the State, approved by an absolute majority of the members, on the basis of an understanding between the State and the Region concerned. The role that the Constitution therefore assigns to the Government in the process outlined in the constitutional forecast is simply to find agreement with respect to the requests made by the Region. At this stage, as is well known, the Executive is completing an intense and complex investigative and negotiation activity, which is conducive to the drafting of a text or, better, a scheme of text shared with the Regions. The Government is absolutely willing to open a discussion with Parliament on the content of this project, in the forms that will obviously be defined in accordance with Parliament's prerogatives. The Government is well aware of the centrality of the Chambers as part of a process of transfer of legislative competences that takes on a constitutional importance and that sees Parliament duly involved. With regard to the other regions requesting differentiated autonomy, we have defined a text relating to the requests of the Piedmont Region, which I am about to send shortly to all the relevant ministries. Today, among other things, I met President De Luca to start the investigation on the requests of the Campania Region. On the question of jointly dealing with the requests of the Regions, I must point out that this hypothesis does not find any evidence of feasibility. The requests for autonomy came at different times: the first, those of Veneto, Lombardy and Emilia Romagna, started even in the previous legislature and led to a pre-agreement signed by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, so it is as if there were different speeds. Subsequently came the requests of Liguria, Piedmont, Tuscany, Umbria and Marche and, in January, that of Campania. Applications for autonomy are heterogeneous in terms of subjects and competences. However, it is the government's job to guarantee an identical general system for all requests for autonomy. The Technical Commission for Standard Requirements, already established under the 2016 Stability Act, will then have to analyse and evaluate the activities and methodologies for the development of standard requirements. The appointment of this Commission, which operates at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, is the responsibility of the President of the Council. With regard to the request to define in advance the essential levels of performance, I would remind you that the drafts of understanding refer to them, both the standard requirements and the essential levels of performance that must be absolutely realized. The definition of the standard requirements does not concern expenditure on the performance of the functions of the Regions, but on expenditure incurred by the State in the Regions for functions now in charge of them. These are not indicators related to the tax revenues accumulated in that territory and there is no reference to this. Trying to conclude quickly, Mr President, as far as resources are concerned, there is a proposal from my own Dicastery that the transfer should take place on the basis of the historical cost, i.e. what the State spends in the region concerned. Therefore, the financial resources spent on the State service in the other regions will remain unchanged. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u157	I give the floor to Senator Collina to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u158	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister, although it seems to me that a fundamental statement is missing. In fact, the way in which the confrontation and discussion are developing shows that we are facing a crucial step, at a crossroads for the country: either we take the path of a federalism that takes into account what the country is like, how Italy is made, or we risk blowing the unity of the country. It does not seem to me that this awareness lies in the arguments that you are pursuing today, especially at a time when there is no definition of a whole series of elements, as you have shown at the moment, from standard needs, to the definition of LEPs, to a definition also in relation to the fiscal capacity of the territories. All these elements are missing, so we are faced with a bilateral relationship between the Government and the Regions in order to define agreements that we do not know in what kind of balance they will be in with respect to the state budget and the overall economic compatibility of our country. With this level of definition, today we are making proposals: we are identifying a parliamentary path that allows us to evaluate and correct, if necessary, the imbalances that may emerge from dealing with these agreements when it comes to a more than significant number of regions (there are nine, which have asked for access to differentiated regionalism). [[Applause from the PD Group]] We therefore ask that the other regions also be included in a table that defines the overall balance that must be maintained and that equal funds be provided that allow us to give concretely the possibility to maintain the unity of the country. If no answers are given to all this, we are not faced with a crossroads between temperate federalism and the risk of blowing up the country, we are faced with a dead end, which will lead nowhere in the definition of autonomy and requests for differentiated regionalism that have been made. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u159	Senator Presutto has the right to explain the question 3-00666 on the transfer of state resources to the Regions as part of the process of differentiated autonomy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u160	Mr President, in the current three draft State-Regions agreements, pursuant to Article 116 of the Constitution, dated 25 February 2019 and published on the website of the Department of Regional Affairs, the automatic application, after three years, of national average expenditure is foreseen. The formulas for the transfer of resources to Veneto, Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna provide that, for each item, the amount of resources allocated may not be less than the national average value per capita. If this amount is lower than that per capita value, the amount must be increased, while if it is higher it must remain unchanged. The application of this system to all the Regions leads mathematically to an increase in expenditure, which is unsustainable for budgetary reasons, while for the Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna alone involves a concentration of expenditure that increases the already present economic imbalances in favour of the richest Regions. On the website of the Dicastery for Regional Affairs, a table is published with the expenditure per capita for university education in some regions, where at the top is indicated Emilia-Romagna, with 163 euros, and in the tail Puglia, with 93 euros. In spite of the Ministry's statements on respect for the essential levels of performance, there is no passage in the draft State-Regions agreement of 25 February last that binds the transfer of function and resources, or even less the calculation of standard requirements, to the definition of the essential levels of performance, although mentioned in the text. On the Ministry's website, a table was published with territorial comparisons in state spending, which saw Lombardy and Veneto standing at the end of the per capita expenditure ranking. The source is the General Accounting Office of the State, which, however, sees only a quarter of public sector spending, while the database of territorial public accounts, which belongs to the MEF, has not been considered in any way although it has been designed precisely to verify the action of the public system in the Regions. Given that the data of the territorial public accounts allow to compare reliably the distribution of expenditure in the different regions and show that the total public expenditure is significantly higher for the Regions of the Centre-North than those of the Mezzogiorno, the 2018 report on the territorial public accounts reports that the expenditure per capita in the public sector as a whole stands at 15,000 euros for the Regions of the North against 12,000 euros for those of the South. It is therefore asked to know: whether the Minister in address intends to publish a comparison table on State expenditure for the Regions which takes as reference the data of the territorial public accounts; whether the publication in respect of expenditure relating to universities is the premise for a reduction of resources destined to the universities of Emilia-Romagna, in particular those of Puglia; whether it is not appropriate to leave out the automatic attachment to the average expenditure per capita, leading to further imbalances in the state budget, because of other calculation methodologies referring to a late definition of the essential levels of performance and standard requirements. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u161	The Minister for Regional Affairs and the Self-Government, Senator Stefani, has the right to reply to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u162	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Presutto for the issues raised, because they show that the publication on the site is a draft of the general part of the understanding, as well as of some exemplifying tables relating to regionalised state expenditure, has made possible a debate which must be absolutely frank on differentiated regionalism. I would like to point out that the draft published on the website of the Department, which is also shared in the general structure with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, represents the state of negotiation in progress and is therefore subject to possible changes, additions and improvements, in the light of the continuous meetings with the various Ministries and of what will result also from the comparison with Parliament. The form on the site refers to the regionalised state expenditure published by the General Accounting Office of the State and is the expenditure relating to certain state functions exercised in the Regions. Since the subject of differentiated autonomy is the allocation to the regions of legislative and administrative competences of the State, the issue of quantification of financial resources can only be closely linked to the current expenditure of the State for the exercise of the functions to be transferred. However, I would remind you that in many cases the transfer of many of the skills we are dealing with does not have any financial effect. The territorial public accounts to which the Honourable Senator refers, while having importance on the subject of spending in the territories, do not have a relationship with the functions to be assigned to the Regions under the third paragraph of Article 116 of the Constitution. These figures relate to all public expenditure in the regions, including that of local authorities and public enterprises, which is therefore not inherent in the calculation necessary to determine the resources deriving from the allocation of state competences. In fact, when these competences are defined, the quantification of the necessary resources will be determined by taking them from the budgets of the ministries involved, thus identifying the expenses that they currently bear for the performance of the function in the regional territory. The value, therefore, is an objective fact and will not have, nor must it have, any overall impact on the state budget. I would remind you that the agreement must be signed without any burden on the state budget. As regards the reference to university expenditure, this entry was only provided in the form published on the Department's website for example. The draft understanding does not provide in any way for a hypothetical transfer of resources related to the ordinary financing fund. Although it would not be necessary, I repeat something obvious: in the drafts of the understanding the autonomy of the universities is not at all affected. In conclusion, I would remind you that in the final agreement, with the precise identification of the subjects and competences to be transferred, we could identify historical expenditure, in agreement with the MEF. For us, the definition of standard requirements, together with the essential levels of performance, remains primary for the efficiency of expenditure, but at the same time guaranteeing a homogeneous provision of services throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u163	Senator Presutto has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u164	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his careful reply. The issue of fiscal federalism, as has already been pointed out in this House, is of major importance for our country and not today: it is a recurring topic in the last nineteen years. We are confident that the process will be implemented in accordance with the values of cohesion and solidarity, and thus in accordance with the principles of our Constitution. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u165	Senator Errani has the right to explain the question 3-00665 on the impact on the public services of pensions allowed under the new legislation, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u166	Minister, I would like to speak to you about a problem which is of great concern to us. In essence, the combination of the 100 quota, the ordinary pensions, the budget law with the relative, net of the school and the Forces of the order, block of the assumptions until the end of 2019, risks to produce, in an already rather stressed structure, of which you are certainly more than aware, a situation of real emergency. In the meantime, I would like to ask you whether the figures which, for example, trade union organizations are spreading about school, which are basically speaking about a need of 150,000 chairs and about 24,000 ATA posts, are credible. Otherwise, what are the credible data. If that were the case, the critical situation we have experienced in the current school year would be dramatic in the next year and we should now understand, not at the beginning of September, what we intend to do to remedy it. Secondly, on health, since there are 7,000 specialist doctors missing, we will already be in a really critical situation before 100: for example, for nurses, as you will know, now there is the university path and you cannot do it as with the navigators; what are you going to do, then? Meanwhile, do you remove this damn block of 1.4, which has already created an emergency situation throughout the health system, both in the regions that have the accounts in order, and in those that do not? We've been talking about this for a long time. Finally, I ask you whether the conflict between Government and Regions on navigators has been resolved, because commercials are fine, but if there is a conflict I do not understand how you will manage this complex game, on which, as is known, we have expressed a attention, not an opposition. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Public Administration, Senator Bongiorno, may reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u167	Mr Senator, I would like to point out to you the estimate of early retirement applications for 2019, which amounts to about 100,000 units, plus the 150,000 submitted by those entitled to retirement according to the requirements of the Fornero law. These are the estimates, but they are data that were widely planned, which I think is good for us because they allow for a replacement, which I am very happy to be able to do. It is clear that we must equip ourselves and we have already done so, since a number of measures have been taken: I am referring to the provisions allowing the recruitment of permanent staff, to an extent equal to 100% of the expenditure relating to staff ceased in the previous year; to the use of existing rankings and the possibility of new competitions without prior authorisation (this is the so-called SCIA for recruitment); to extraordinary recruitments, of which few speak, but which I believe are very important, using resources allocated in the last budget law (equal, in the three years 2019-2021, to 893 million euros, for the most part already distributed among the various administrations). I would add that during the examination of the bill so-called 100 quota, some amendments have been submitted by the Government and already approved to the Senate that in the three years 2019-2021 will allow the Regions and the local authorities to accumulate the resources destined to the recruitments for five years and to count, for the planning of the new ones, the terminations from the service that will occur in the course of the year; to the Ministry of Justice to assume, according to simplified modalities, from July, 1,300 units; to the public administrations to use the rankings of the new contests completed to assume the winners and eventually replace them, subject to the order of merit. We can therefore say that the effects of retirement will be offset by the new competitions and the use of their rankings. In particular, given that time is running out with regard to the school sector, to which you referred, I would point out that I have already answered a parliamentary question: it is already foreseen that massive recruitments will be carried out in the field of education in the current year; for health, the rankings contain 33,000 units. The last fact I give you is that it is the Government's intention to present an amendment that will allow companies and health care agencies to count, for the purposes of new recruitments, like Regions and local authorities, also the terminations from the service that occur during the year. As far as navigators are concerned, there is a general confusion: they are not public administration, so they do not fall within my competence, but there is no conflict. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Comments of Senators Bellanova and Malpezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u168	I call Senator Errani to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u169	Minister, thank you and I will be very brief: you have spoken about the replacement and we all agree on that. The problem is if the replacement is there. The question is: do you really think, with these answers, that you can face and give security on the start of the next school year? [[Applause from the PD Group]] I assure you, unfortunately, that is not the case. Secondly, I would ask you to look a little further into the terrible cross-section between the rules in relation to recruitment in health care, because if you say that you can spend up to 100% of what you used to spend before, I repeat that there is a regulatory constraint of 1.4%, which has practically called into question the sustainability of the system. With regard to simplification, Minister, I would advise you to put together all the rules: you will find that the combined arrangement is jeopardising the system. Let's not talk about competitions: do you really think that competitions in these months will solve the dramatic problem we find ourselves in? I think, Minister, you're a little too quiet. You need to find extraordinary tools, overcome constraints, unravel the recruitment mechanism, and open a new phase. In relation to the navigators, I know that they are not within your competence and I apologise; however, since it represents the Government, the only thing you can't tell me is that there is no conflict between the Regions and the Government. It is, in fact, an established and clearly defined thing. I would therefore like to reiterate your concern and ask you to look into it. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u170	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u171	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the participants in the Master's Degree in Corporate Communication, Lobbying and International Relations of the 24-hour business school and the teachers and students of the Technical Trade Institute Vittorio Bachelet in Ferrara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u172	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u174	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, kind senators and senators, I am speaking here today to remind and ask, at the end of my speech, for a minute's silence for Carmelo D'Adetta, a local police officer from San Nicandro Garganico, in the province of Foggia. They are present today, to attend the session, his family members, the mayor of San Nicandro and some representatives of the local police. On the day of Ferragosto last year, Carmelo D'Adetta was swept by a racing car, while he was engaged in the reliefs of a tragic road accident, which occurred shortly before on the highway 693, in which two young girls and a boy from Torremaggiore had lost their lives. After months of hospitalization, Carmelo passed away on November 13th. I became aware of this tragic affair last January, when I attended the national conference of the Unitary Union of Local Police Workers (SULPL). At the national conference of the SULP, in the presence of family members, Agent D'Adetta received a certificate and a gold medal in memory, for having paid with his life his great dedication and attachment to work. Unfortunately, the state often forgets these men and women who perform an important service in favour of the community and local citizenship in the fight against crime, in the fight against crimes, such as drug dealing and prostitution, and in the protection of public order. Often, they are faced with critical and uncomfortable situations, with a high emotional impact without any support even psychological. In the case of local police officers, deaths from causes of service often remain anonymous; on the contrary, they deserve attention from the institutions and, in our case, from the Italian Parliament. The 5 Star Movement has already presented a draft law at the first signature of its colleague, Senator Corbetta, for the extension to the victims of the duty of the benefits recognized to the victims of terrorism. This extension is a necessary act on the part of the State, precisely in the name of the fundamental principles protected and recognized by our law, which cannot tolerate different regulatory status in relation to the different ways in which the sacrifice of the victim has been consumed. It would be a first recognition to those who offer and have offered, even at the cost of their lives, such high service to the country, with honor and dedication. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion I therefore ask the whole House to offer a tangible sign of closeness to these mourning, observing a minute's silence to honour their memory, for the victims of duty and today in particular to remind Agent Carmelo D'adetta.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u175	The Presidency joins in and invites the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence. Applause]] We greet the family members present in the gallery.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u176	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u177	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u178	MALPEZZI (PD). Mr President, I would like to stress in this House the concern of the National Association of Partisans of Italy (ANPI) of Pessano with Bornago, a small town in the east of Milan' s hinterland which has a particular history, because on 9 March 1945 seven partisans were killed. Since then there has been a continuous and constant memory, which is celebrated with a particular sensitivity, extended to the whole territory. The story itself is dramatic. This year in Pessano with Bornago on March 17 was organized - and we see nothing bad - a sporting event that sees as protagonist the association Wolf of the ring (WTR) in support of the ONLUS Bran.Co. Both the association and the ONLUS in question refer to the organization of extreme right Loyalty Action; moreover, the same ONLUS Bran.Co has been at the center of recent controversy because it seems that in its activity of aid to families in difficulty has put in action actions of real discrimination against non-Italian families. The ANPI of Pessano with Bornago has realized that this private sporting event is sponsored by the Lombardy Region. The only thing that ANPI has asked, without wanting to make excessive noise, but subjecting, according to the most democratic formula, a sort of agenda also to all the neighboring municipalities in order to find a support, is that the Lombardy Region removes the patronage. It is a demonstration made in a private place, moreover in a place that, perhaps, common sense and even good taste, then seen the month in question, should see other choices. I know that it is not in your powers, Mr President, to intercede with the Lombardy Region but, surely, you should try to consider whether it is the case that the Region, which, all things considered, is a Region of all, even of the citizens who do not feel from this manifestation represented, can choose in this way, so clearly, to support an event that is offensive to a good part of the city. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u179	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u181	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you will have read the editorial by Tomaso Montanari, published on Tuesday, March 5th on the Newspaper Fact, entitled 'The unworthy apology of the book thief'. Montanari, an excellent art historian and a well-known protagonist of the Italian cultural debate, clearly distanced himself from the last essay by professor Sergio Luzzatto, an ordinary of Modern History at the University of Turin, who for the Types of Einaudi has just published the essay "Max Fox" or "dangerous relations". Whoever thought, judging by the title, of an adventure of Geronimo Stilton or Harry Potter would fall into a tragic mistake. I said tragic, instead I should say tragicomic, because the plot of Luzzatto's script, an essay, not a novella, is not of fantasy, but is inspired by a very serious fact, an Italian story that echoes the ridicule in its drama and that, if it were not judged, would appear incredible: the library of the Girolamini of Naples plundered by its director, Marino Massimo De Caro. To the seizure of the library and the arrest of De Caro, presumed champion of the illicit trade of books on an international scale, arrived in 2011 at the direction of one of the most important Italian cultural garrisons for a favorable astral conjunction, evidently (but perhaps it is not superfluous to remember that, this fox, guarded the chicken coop, as Montanari writes, was the right arm of Marcello Dell'Utri, man of Publitalia, just like the then Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Giancarlo Galan). He followed the sentence to seven years for peculatus, while the judgment for association with criminals, devastation and looting still hangs. If in Italy the devastation and looting of public cultural heritage, in fact, has not yet been legalized, as it is hoped that the sentence can in the future reaffirm, no doubt is admissible on the lawfulness, but not even on the inopportunity, to give literary dignity and, more or less explicitly, to absolve, as is evident from the succinct title of Luzzatto's essay, the protagonist of particularly hateful swindles, because they tend to impoverish our cultural assets. There has been much discussion, colleagues, of the diseducational value of certain cinematographic productions and, more recently, of certain fictions on organized crime, very lucky as to the numbers and the public's liking, but accused of mitigating the social reprobation against those deviances and, worse, of transforming the protagonists into heroes, until they arouse emulation. Well, it is no less serious that Professor Luzzatto, the new press office of the novello Lupin, becomes an accomplice to a hateful crime such as that committed to the detriment of the cultural heritage of the country, materialized in the book heritage. Will it have inspired the charm of crime or, rather, a sneaky wink at the reader who, notoriously, in the eternal fight between guards and thieves, underside side for the second? It impresses a similar choice from a university lecturer. It is even more astonishing that a very high-profile publisher like Einaudi lent himself, for mere profit, to such a dirty game. Well did Tomaso Montanari, former author of the public complaint that triggered the investigation, brand the editorial initiative as "L'indegna apologia del burglare di libri". [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u182	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-98.ana.u183	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 March, at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.59 p.m.
