ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1547. The rapporteur, Senator L'Abbate, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u5	Mr President, according to the 2016 survey analysis, Italy has the highest value in the European Community of premature deaths of nitrogen dioxide - we are talking about 14,600 cases - and the second for fine PM 2.5 particulate matter (58,600 cases). The most recent surveys, dated 2017, see the highest concentrations of fine dust in Italy and in some Eastern countries. There are 2 million Italians living in areas such as the Po Valley, where the European Union's limits for the two main pollutants have been systematically violated. This draft law concerns the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 111 of 2019, which provides for urgent measures to comply with the obligations of Directive 2008/50 of the European Community on air quality. It is the first legislative act of the new Government that inaugurates the green new deal and we also have within it the extension of the period referred to in Article 48, paragraphs 11 and 13 of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016, converted with amendments by Law No 229 of 15 December 2016. This last provision lays down rules on the deferment of time limits for tax and contributory obligations following the seismic events of 2016. In the course of the examination in the referent were made some improvements to the decree. In Article 1, which contains urgent measures for the establishment of a national strategic policy to combat climate change and improve air quality, we find the framework for the approval of the national strategic programme to combat climate change and improve air quality, of which the contents are outlined and the obligation for public administrations to comply with the objectives set by it. In particular, paragraph 1, as amended by the contact person, stipulates that the national strategic programme for combating climate change and improving air quality, is approved in coordination with the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan and the basin planning for hydrogeological failure. The program is approved by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on proposal of the Minister of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea that must be issued within ninety days of the entry into force of the law of conversion referred to in this decree. This deadline is the result of the approval of an amending proposal, which extended the period laid down in the original text from 60 to 90 days. For the purpose of issuing this decree, the Minister of Health and the other Ministers concerned must be heard and, as is apparent from the examination in the contact person, the Permanent Conference State-Regions and Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. The programme will identify national measures to ensure the correct and full implementation of Directive 2008/50/EC and, as specified in the relevant amendments to European national legislation on combating climate change. For each measure, the plan will have to identify the economic resources available under existing legislation and indicate the timing of its implementation. It has also proposed the inclusion of a new paragraph, the 2-a, which establishes a permanent interministerial table on the climate emergency. The table, incardinated at the Ministry of the Environment, is composed of a representative of the same, as well as the ministries of agricultural, food and forestry policies, health, economic development and infrastructure and transport. It will have the function of monitoring the actions of the national strategic programme, adapting them to the results without additional burdens for public finance. The components are not paid any compensation, therefore allowances, presence tokens and anything else. Article 1-a, inserted in the referee, provides for the establishment of a special programme in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers for the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies, with particular reference to the energy sector. The new provision on CIPE is also important, transforming it into an interministerial committee for economic planning and sustainable development from 1 January 2021. In order to ensure the coordination of public policies aimed at achieving the objectives of sustainable development adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 25 September 2015, CIPE is expected to take the name of the Interministerial Committee for Economic Programming and Sustainable Development (CIPESS). From the same date, in Law No 48 of 27 February 1968 and in any other provisions in force, any reference to the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning must be understood as referring to the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning and Sustainable Development. In Article 2, it is clarified that the allocation of the fund established to finance the "experimental programme good mobility" which is implemented through the corresponding use, for the years 2019 to 2024, of a share of the proceeds of the auctions of the CO2 emission allowances destined to the Ministry of the Environment, the Territory and the Sea, is paid by the Manager of Energy Services (GSE), taking into account the limits of the allocation of the said fund. Article 2 also extends the use of good mobility to shared and individual mobility services. It is specified, always to paragraph 1, that the decree of the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea, in agreement with the Minister of the economy and the finances, with the Minister of the infrastructures and the transports and the Minister of the economic development, aimed to the definition of the conditions and the modalities for the obtaining of the release of the bonus mobility, must be adopted heard the unified Conference. It is further specified that the financing of projects relating to the creation, extension, modernisation and implementation of preferential lanes for local public transport are presented to the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea by the municipalities concerned by Community infringement procedures, No 2147 of 2014 and No 2043 of 2015, having a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants for the implementation of a single work. To paragraph 2, last period, the term is extended, from forty-five to ninety days, for the adoption of the decree of the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea aimed at the definition of the modalities and the terms of submission of the applications relating to the aforementioned projects. Finally, it is laid down that the procedures and deadlines for submitting applications should take account of criteria which give priority to projects submitted by municipalities with higher levels of pollutant emissions. Article 3 lays down provisions for the promotion of sustainable school transport; it authorises expenditure of EUR 20 million (10 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021) for the financing of experimental projects for the implementation or implementation of the school transport service to be carried out by hybrid or electric means of transport or not less than EUR 6, registered for the first time after 31 August 2019. Article 4 lays down provisions on reforestation actions by providing for the financing of an experimental programme for metropolitan cities, amounting to EUR 15 million for each of the years 2020 and 2021. In paragraph 2 it is expected that within ninety days of the entry into force of the law of conversion referred to in this decree, by decree of the Minister of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea are defined the modalities for the planning and any subsequent variation of the participations from the metropolitan cities; moreover, it is established the repartition of the funds that takes place taking into account the criteria of selection of the environmental and social valence of the projects, the level of redevelopment and usability of the area, the levels of quality of the air and the localization in the zones object of the European infringement procedures. It is specified that the terms have been extended, from 90 to one hundred and twenty days from the date of publication of the aforementioned decree, for which each Metropolitan City presents to the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea the plans accompanied by the operational programs of detail with the relative costs. It is also provided, in paragraph 4, that among the criteria for the assignment of the realization of the works of the cleaning and maintenance of the management of the river property and of contrast to the hydrogeological failure are introduced those relative to the reforestation of the riparial bands and the river state property areas, with relative plan of maintenance where deemed necessary in order to prevent the hydrogeological risk. Following the changes in the contact person, it has been introduced, for the competent authorities in the management of the river property and in the planning of measures to combat the hydrogeological failure, that, if the competent authorities do not consider necessary the reforestation, they must justify it in the acts of custody and make it known, within thirty days of their adoption, in the "Transparent Administration" section of the respective website. In Article 4, paragraph 4-a introduces the possibility, by the competent authorities, to entrust the management activities of the reforestation of the riparial areas and the river state property areas to farmers organized in a single or associated form. Paragraph 3 requires a special ministerial decree to define the procedures for submitting applications and expenditure eligible for financing. This decree must be adopted by the Minister for the Environment, after hearing the Ministers for Education, Universities and Research, Economics and Finance. Article 5, as amended by the contact person, regulates the appointment and activities of single commissioners for the implementation of interventions in the field of unfair landfills and waste water implementation of certain European infringement procedures. Paragraph 1 allows the sole commissioner for unfair landfills the possibility to avail, on the basis of special conventions, within the limits of the current European legislation, of the following entities: companies in house of the central government of the State; national network system for the protection of the environment; central and peripheral administrations of the State and public bodies. The planned conventions involve the entities indicated within their respective areas of intervention, using the human and instrumental resources available under existing legislation, without new or increased burdens on public finances. Paragraph 2 provides that the single commissioner is chosen in the managerial roles of the public administration, remains in office for a three-year period and is placed in a position of command, in expectation or out of role, according to their respective laws. In case of out-of-role placement, on leave or in command, as specified in the contact person, the place of the organic endowment of the administration of origin shall be made unavailable for the same duration, for the purposes of financial invariance. The Commissioner is paid - in addition to the basic economic treatment on the part of the administration - an ancillary fee on account of the results achieved. Paragraph 3 assigns to the single commissioner, as arranged in the referent, a support structure, composed at most of twelve members belonging to the public administrations referred to in article 1, paragraph 2, and article 3 of the legislative decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, which ceases at the end of the mandate of the single commissioner. Article 7 recognises, on an experimental basis, a non-refundable contribution to local or medium-scale traders to encourage the sale of bulk detergents or food products or to the plug. Please note that the container offered by the operator should not be a disposable container. A further amendment proposes that the contribution can also be used for the opening of new shops exclusively dedicated to the sale of bulk products. The Commission proposes that containers owned by the customer may be used under certain conditions. At the reference point, the possibility was proposed to raise the limit of expenditure to EUR 22 million by changing the coverage rule accordingly. It is also proposed to extend further the benefit under consideration to agricultural undertakings carrying out the sales activity governed by Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 228 of 2001. Article 4 provides that individual or associated farmers - registered in the register of undertakings - may sell directly to the retail trade, throughout the territory of the Republic, products coming from their holdings to a large extent, having regard to the provisions in force concerning hygiene and health. The ministerial decree must include specific checks to ensure that the sales activity in question is carried out for a minimum period of three years, under penalty of withdrawal of the contribution. With the adoption of amendment 8.0.10, the Commission is proposing the introduction of a new Article 8-a. It provides that the provisions in question shall apply to regions with special status and autonomous provinces of Trento and Bolzano, in accordance with the rules of their respective Statutes and their implementing provisions, including with reference to Constitutional Law No 3 of 2001. This is the first step towards the solid scaffolding that the Government is making for the ecological transition, the care of our common home, the improvement of the quality of life of the citizens, the improvement of the air quality that we breathe, with the bonus mobility, the planting of thousands of trees, the commissioners who will have a series of resources for the continuous work they carry out on the unfair landfills and for the purification of water. The sale of bulk products is another excellent and fundamental action to reduce packaging, the primary source of plastic that spreads in our environment. This is the first step, which will be followed by the budget law and the environmental link. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u6	The minority rapporteur, Senator Martelli, has requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u7	Mr President, as an introduction, I have quite recognised myself in the report by the majority rapporteur, up to the final part, in which she has magnified the content of this decree-law. I obviously do not have the second part of the decree-law and now I am going to explain why, in carrying out my report. First of all, I would like to start with the text of the decree-law, whose articles cover eight pages; this means that the measure, immersively called the climate decree, presents a problem: perhaps we do not have a climate emergency. Having said that, I would like to take a look at the content of a number of articles with specific attention to the profile of funding, because the goodness of an environmental intervention must also be measured by the amount of money put in place for the implementation of the measures, especially those put in place the following year, in the 2020 budget, because any allocation for subsequent years can be changed again in the budget law; therefore, paradoxically, we could also allocate 10 billion for 2030, so we will never get there. It has rightly been said that the decree-law under consideration covers three open European infringement procedures, one of which has already been closed with condemnation, so more properly the rules of this measure should have been included in the European law, which is used to close European infringement procedures. I am not a big fan of European infringement procedures, but I do not have to accept that it believes that it has to close them; in any case, these are infringement procedures. It has been rightly said that these relate to air quality in the Po Valley and in particular to two types of pollutants, nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and fine particulate matter, namely the famous fine dusts (PM10, PM2,5 and lower). The European infringement procedure required actions, which were coordinated (so they do not come from the decree-law under consideration) and agreed with the European Commission at a meeting that ended and formalized in June 2019, so in fact they already come from an agreement, they are not ours. These measures contain some actions, such as the adoption of a mobility bonus to try to reduce the use of private transport as well as a mobility bonus covering the replacement of the fleet available for student transport (i.e. from home to school); the measures also contain planting actions in various articles of the measure under consideration. Article 1, as the rapporteur rightly said, introduces the very important concepts of the National Climate Change Programme and the permanent monitoring table. The problem is that these initiatives are free of charge, i.e. the most recurring phrase in the decree-law under discussion is: "without new or higher charges for public finance". Then I will also go to detail the amount of money put in place, especially in the 2020 budget, but the wise people teach that where there is no burden there is no incisiveness, so the lack of substantial funding in itself leads to a weakness of intervention. Article 2 concerns the mobility bonus and provides a bonus of up to EUR 500 for the dismantling of particularly polluting vehicles such as two-stroke motorcycles without catalysts, or up to EUR 1,500 for the most polluting vehicles, thus those of type-approval class up to Euro 2. I would also like to make a reference to this, because in my opinion the rapporteur's task must also be to explain in detail certain issues that are often passed without clarification. The European type-approval classes are not necessarily dictated by the qualification of the level of pollution emitted, so much so that in the comparison between Euro 4, Euro 5 and Euro 6 there are discrepancies, that is, the levels of some pollutants have been raised (it is possible to emit more) and others have been lowered, so in the transition from Euro 4 to Euro 5 it has taken a step back. The second concerns the qualification of the approval park with regard to car manufacturers. The European Union stipulates that the whole package of type-approved vehicles must have average emissions per kilometre cut to a certain level; therefore, this type-approval is being achieved by including in its package vehicles marketed with lower emissions in the EU type-approval cycles. So just insert a full electric vehicle to automatically sell an SUV that produces 500 grams of CO2 per kilometer. In fact, this type of homologation package does not look at the volume of the sold, in the sense that an electric vehicle lowers the level of cutting of CO2 emissions as the sale of 500,000 SUVs, regardless of the volume of sale. All this to say that a mobility bonus, in itself, only increases - in my opinion rightly - the offer of low impact mobility, such as electric bikes or assisted pedalling. On the other hand, however, the demand for transport with endothermic engines does not diminish. So it's a measure that's fine, but it needs the second leg. The funding put in place is 5 million for 2019, which is fine because the year is practically over. For 2020, however, there are plans for EUR 70 million, which will run out very quickly. There is one more thing to say. In the context of the Commission's discussions, the amendments which required that the remainder of these appropriations should not be forfeited by public finances, which were finally acquired, were rejected. The important thing, in fact, is that they remain, possibly as a cumulation. The fact that this figure is not entirely used does not mean that there is no request, because there is often a resistance to activating the procedure by those who sell this type of mobility garrison. In fact, if you come to a bicycle vendor with an old scooter, it is likely that he says he is not interested because it is very expensive for him, from the bureaucratic point of view, to activate the whole procedure. Article 3 concerns the famous mobility bonus for student means of transport. This is also a commendable initiative as a principle, but there is one. This is the incongruity that has passed in the Commission's discussions. The initial idea was to replace the fleet of circulating vehicles equipped with endothermic engines with vehicles equipped with electric or hybrid propulsion. As regards hybrid, an amending proposal had been made requiring the removal of the concept of hybrid vehicle and replacing it with a fuel cell vehicle, i.e. two types of vehicles that would have zero emissions. When the amendment was rejected, it was said that a hybrid vehicle should be present in order to promote the energy transition. However, let us remember that the hybrid vehicle consumes more than the endothermic vehicle outside the urban cycle, because it carries a ballast due to the weight of the batteries. This I can accept, but after that amendments have been adopted which allow this operation with vehicles also powered by diesel with Euro 6 type-approval. I can't think that there's an incongruity for which you agree to make the transition with an endothermic diesel engine, which should be just the engine you shouldn't use to make the transition (it would have been the demonized engine). Moreover, Euro 6 types are accepted, but not methane and LPG types. On the scale of pollution, methane certainly pollutes less than LPG, which in turn pollutes less than the diesel engine, because - trivially - they do not emit fine particulate matter. As far as nitrogen oxides are concerned, it is the diesel engine that produces them. Therefore, if the infringement is on nitrogen oxide we are going to do something that increases, or at least does not reduce the emission of that type of pollutant. As regards this type of intervention, there are plans for 10 million for 2020 and 10 million for 2021. Of course, the following observation must be made. If these amounts are divided by the number of possible requests, it is clear that it will be very difficult to meet so many, especially in the municipalities that are approaching the low-end (i.e. those with little more than 100,000 inhabitants). Finally, let us remember what the level of weight gain must be for a vehicle used for the transport of persons and not for private transport. This is also something that should have been taken into account. As regards Article 4, it provides for an experimental set-aside programme for replanting and forestry trees. I must say that, perhaps because of my lack, I did not find in literature the notion of a replantation tree. There are sementials and transplants that are the classic settings that are made in forest nurseries. However, I did not find the notion of a replanting tree, except in the forums where it is referred to as a replanting tree as an explanted tree and planted elsewhere, regardless of its size. While the characterization of sementials and transplants concerns plants with a precise classification of age groups. Having said that, the experimental program lacks the fundamental part, because an experiment involves the experiment itself and the monitoring of the experiment: this says the scientific method. If there are no methods of monitoring the progress of the experiment, it is not an experiment, but an attempt. The programme is completely lacking in monitoring the reforestation or reforestation of urban areas. We will therefore not be able to understand the effectiveness of the intervention in relation to the expenditure incurred. What is the purpose of planting trees in an urban area? The mitigation of the heat island; the increase in the amount of water vapor in the air, which is a thermal stabilizer; the creation of bands against thin particles; typically should be a radial type intervention and then localized to spot, not concentrated in a single point. The effectiveness of an intervention at a single point is lower than if the intervention were relocated to a number of points. The amendments to this effect have not been accepted, nor have they been accepted, for example, those which are trivial for the monitoring of thermal energy. Is there or is there no mitigation effect on the heat island? Then we understand that if the intervention is already 15 million for 2020 and, moreover, there is not even a monitoring intervention, it is not possible to understand its effectiveness. It is a program end in itself, assuming that every tree planted is a good thing, of course as long as you follow it. The other critical issue, in fact, is that no reference is made to the age or size of the trees. You understand that planting a two-year-old tree, 30 centimeters tall, means determining almost certain mortality. Consequently, if there is not even a plan to monitor the vitality and life of the tree itself, in the end everything is resolved - as has already happened in previous years - in plantings with incredible mortality, especially in an urban context where there are no ideal conditions to promote plant life. With regard to Article 5, reference is made again to a European infringement and once again it is remedied. This is an old infringement: already in the previous parliamentary term there was the problem of illegal and non-ravaged landfills and there was the problem of waste water, for which we actually have a dispute that dates back to the 1990s. I therefore appreciate the attempt, mainly because we cannot afford to have landfills that have not yet been reclaimed or even recorded, because many of us also ignore the existence, without anything being done. Securing is a necessary act. Article 6 concerns the publication of environmental data, which is a worthy thing. Unfortunately, what is missing is the way in which these data are made usable, because the current problem with excessive data is that so much data is equal to no data. When supplied (from ARPA, in this case) the data relating to the quality of the water, contained in faldons of a thousand or one thousand five hundred pages, are in fact data not usable, because no one can ever dig in such a situation to find the data that interest him. It would have been necessary to classify the major pollutants, which are persistent or have the highest impact on human health and give priority to those, while of course the overall content: all the data yes, but some in particular. Article 7 concerns the promotion of the sale of bulk products. This is also a meritorious thing, because we have to go back to the overpacking that we have at present in circulation, but there are some things that have not been dealt with. Firstly, with regard to access to an exercise that offers products on the plug, the possibility of using its own container is not binding. A rule has been inserted for which I can go into a commercial exercise with my own container (so circular economy) and hear me tell the operator that that container is not suitable for his indisputable judgment, or because it is not good for him or because it is not clean enough. What does this kind of litigation lead to? The legislator must consider the limited cases; he must not consider when things are always good, but he must look at when things are always bad. This dispute means that many people will not want to go to debate, i.e. they will not want to show up in a commercial exercise, enter into controversy with the operator and expect it to put the product in its container. So the risk is that one agrees to take home every time a non-useable container that, in fact, becomes disposable. The other paradox is that I could go into a business practice, get the container the operator gives me, come back with the same container and hear me say that that container is not good. See that this already exists with regard to the oxoplasty envelopes inside the stores (the transparent ones to use with the glove). Returning with the same envelope - and this is already in the news - means opening a controversy with the point of sale, which does not recognize the fact that they were brought, and even wants to make you pay for them a second time. So, this is important. The second problem, in my opinion, is as follows. It has been given the opportunity to extend this experiment from medium-sized to large-scale exercises. The size is not based on the size of the marketing chain, but on the size of the point of sale, so in fact large distribution chains (GDOs) were also included. At the same time, however, a negative opinion was expressed - on an amendment which was therefore rejected - which instead required to be able to extend the sale of their bulk products to farmers. This is objectively a paradox, because a person would go to a farm to take bulk products, but he would have to take home the container too. One final remark. The article on the reforestation of the riparial bands remains. Again, this is a worthy thing, but there are two critical issues. The first is that, where the rivers are already regimated, giving the possibility of replantation, especially to agricultural entrepreneurs, opens up the possibility of poplar cultivation, that is to say to the high intensity forestry: it is the poplars that create problems, because they have a poor root system and they risk - and often happens - being uprooted and end up obstructing against the pylons of bridges. In my opinion, a priority scale should have been envisaged, first of all giving priority where there is a strong streaming and the ground is weaker, so where there is the possibility that the flood wave will be created. That would have been the fundamental thing and unfortunately it does not appear in the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u8	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, I would like to make a few comments. When we talk about climate decree-laws, we come to think of multiple problems. The fact is that with this measure the Government and the majority of Parliament will actually resolve the problem of infringement procedures. This was clearly stated by the majority and minority rapporteurs, and then analyzed in particular the measures taken, which relate in particular to specific infringements. However, I believe it is necessary for us to consider today's opportunity for overall reflection on one of the most emblematic issues of our time, which concerns, on the one hand, our role with regard to everything related to climate change; on the other hand, the reactions and sensitivities of citizens; on the other hand, the views of businesses. In such an important measure, I would have expected to read, rather than the answers to European infringements, at least a general plan on these points, which, in my opinion, are substantial. In the meantime, I believe that it is important to give a message to the citizens and indeed, to be more precise, to our nation, because when we talk about sacrifices or whatever we have to do to regulate climate change problems, of course a normal citizen does his duty, maybe he deals with separate collection, he does not go to the city by car on Sundays, but he always wonders what Europe is doing first, since of course he opens infringement procedures, against those who are actually poisoning our system. I always look horrified at the images that come from China and India, not to mention the fires that have recently affected the forests of the Amazon. I therefore believe that, first of all, we have a duty to give a very clear message, because if we ask for the cooperation of businesses and citizens for different reasons of character and nature, we must also make it clear what our State's commitment is to ensure that a global problem is dealt with in a truly global way. It is important because, on the one hand, there is a strong awareness of people's climate change - I am referring to the small of every family, such as the separate collection or control of the use of the car - on the other, these types of controls that are introduced have the characteristic of representing a weight and very often a reason for serious territorial conflict between companies on the one hand and citizens on the other; the latter very often form part of committees, preventing companies from operating or inflating administrative justice, which often deals with these issues, or at least not going to give clear and concrete help and answers to those who do business in this sector. I therefore think that the government has missed an opportunity, when it has put its hand to the so-called climate decree, for climate change, because it probably should have, at least in my opinion, dealt in a general way with something different and that is, precisely, the issues that really touch the everyday life of people and not simply to chase, as I said, the infringement procedures, which, among other things, have been on the shoulders of our country for years, which, as you know, has received several, many certainly in environmental matters. There is another aspect of the decree that struck me in a particular way, namely the abdication of politics: it is acknowledged that the subjects who have to deal with this type of problem are the local authorities and in the first place the Regions, but the solution that is then found is always and in any case the same, that is, we go, in essence, to assign the political responsibility of the choices to the commissioners, where there is no specific ability to solve the problems. Moreover, it is enough to think of the whole game that has concerned waste management in many regions and we know perfectly well why we consider it a topic that is better to entrust to a commissioner rather than to put in place clear choices of nature and political character. I therefore believe that this abdication does not make credible also the forms of protocol that are gradually signed; for example the same protocol that concerned air, which is mentioned, among other things, in the context of the climate decree. So, in my humble opinion, I insist on the concept of a missed opportunity, regardless of the issues that have been addressed. The other issue relates to the basic problem, which is obviously that of the various financial burdens, but there is above all one element which concerns the continued referral not only to those who are Commissioners, but to ministerial decrees. This is another approach that I context because not only are many urgent measures being taken (and all right, we always say so) but very often the rules contained in them are quite empty boxes that refer to further ministerial decrees. In conclusion, stressing with insistence what has been said, the legislation we are considering today is probably a missed opportunity to deal with what, on the other hand, is a fundamental problem of our time. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u10	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Scientific High School Stanislao Cannizzaro in Rome, who are attending our work, which we welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u11	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u12	Mr President, let us talk about the climate, the most important emergency we are going through in recent years, in recent decades. A dramatic emergency, and it is absolutely significant that at the very beginning of this measure a very radical and very explicit mention is made of a National Strategic Programme to combat climate change and improve air quality. The government, that is, within one of the first measures of its mandate, transposes what now - fortunately at international level, and gradually also at national and local level - is emerging from the widespread awareness, that is, the need to cope with a change not only contingent, but structural, of the climate at local and global level. We are talking, not by chance, President, colleagues and colleagues, about green new deal. This term recalls another tragedy in history, another structural crisis that occurred more or less a century ago, when the world faced a global economic crisis; a black period of structural crisis that would have dramatic repercussions also from the employment and work point of view. It was then imagined a structural policy that, starting from that crisis, faced it in an organic way, therefore with a plan of reforms capable of overcoming the crisis, which had mainly economic-banking origins, using it as a springboard to review the overall economic and social policy of the United States and so on from all the Western countries. Well, Mr President, when we talk about green new deal, we talk exactly about this, about the awareness of a crisis that, however, has a different nature, namely the climate change crisis. Fortunately, Mr President, there are only a few - and I hope no one - Members in this House who want to question this concept. We certainly have the somewhat disturbing precedent of the vote in the European Parliament, in which all the Members of the League, not later than a few months ago, voted against the Paris International Agreement, the first agreement which at international level placed binding constraints on the activities of individual governments and parliaments. But let's forget it, let's pretend it didn't happen, and let's try to understand each other to determine the best measures to meet this obvious need. President, these days a disaster has occurred in our country, and the problem is that every time there is a precipitation or a climate event that we can say deviates from normal, the effects that are produced are devastating. In fact, the damage that occurred in particular on 12, 13 and 14 November did not affect only Venice. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u13	I'm sorry, Senator. Colleagues, the buzz is beginning to be excessive and we can't hear Senator Ferrazzi's intervention. I would particularly like to ask the senators on the right side of the House to lower the volume of the voice. Please, Senator Ferrazzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u14	I said that the events were dramatic, but they were a consequence of what had happened only a year ago. The storm Vaia in the North-East or all the floods in Central and South Italy, in fact, have now become, unfortunately for our country, ordinary events. Well, in order to remain in the dramatic chronicle, a dramatic phenomenon took place in Venice. If we go to check the trend of the phenomenon of high water in the lagoon city, within a week we have seen what had not happened during the previous thirty years. High water phenomena of such exceptional flow did not occur during the previous thirty years, but we had them in the course of seven days. This is not due to a particular misfortune or cosmic defect, but also depends on phenomena directly ascribed to anthropic activity. Certainly there are astronomical elements, the lunar gravitation and that of the sun, but certainly there are also meteorological elements, such as, for example, the wind. Certainly there is the question of low tide, which is not directly ascribed to climate change, but the magnitude of the winds is directly so, as is the question of rising seas, because the arranged combination of melting ice and rising sea temperature, and therefore the increase in volume, has led, in the last hundred years in Venice, to an increase in the average sea level of 25 cm, with an increase of 2.5 mm per year. This is a dramatic fact, which directly concerns human activity. If we then add it to the subsidity of the lagoon city, which has led over the course of a hundred years to a lowering of the city of 14 centimeters - also in this case we see that 8 of these 14 centimeters are due to anthropic activity and in particular to the emungment of the aquifers - it is quite evident that it is the human activity that is determining in a consistent way the phenomena of current climate change, obviously flanked by all the natural elements. Human activity is therefore the fundamental element that is causing these disasters. Mr President, after all this long preamble, I want to say that there is finally a government that takes the bull by the horns and tries to resolve this issue. The decree-law under consideration - I heard what my colleague said earlier - is not a resolver, but is part of a national, international and European path, because the forces of this Government are supporting, at European level, an extraordinary plan, which has never been seen in the course of the history of the European Union. Predicting EUR 1,000 billion for green policies, during a mandate, is something that has never been seen, as well as the definition of green objectives not only for the European Commissioner for the environment, but also for each individual European Commissioner, in the definition of his own programmes. Similarly, a national government agreement based essentially on green policies had never been seen. These policies are evident in the budget law that we are going to deal with and that we are going to discuss in the coming weeks and we certainly see them in the measure under consideration. It cannot be said, in fact, that the issue of air quality is not directly attributable to the quality of life of our citizens and our territories, as I have heard now. This is not only because the Po Valley has the most polluted air in Europe, but because the phenomenon of air pollution now unfortunately affects the whole of the country. Mr President, when we talk about good mobility, we are talking about EUR 255 million, which is being made available with this measure to help improve air quality and enable our citizens to make a leap. I am probably referring to those who have the oldest and most polluting means and, therefore, even less money to spend in this direction. When we talk about modernising the preferential lanes for local public transport, we want to help and, at times, also encourage mayors to understand that historic centres and towns must be developed in the logic of sustainable mobility. When we talk about sustainable school transport, encouraging hybrid and electric, we allocate EUR 60 million in this direction, between this and local public transport. Similarly, the great plan of urban and peri-urban forests does not only concern some citizens of some metropolitan city; this measure, in fact, concerns 21 million inhabitants, because this is what we are talking about. It consists not only of small interventions for local mitigation, because a real plan of planting and reforestation within the metropolitan cities, supported with 30 million euros in the biennium, directly concerns climate adaptation. It is clear that when we talk about climate we must not limit ourselves to mitigation, that is to say to reducing emissions, but we must take note of the fact that climate change is structural and therefore we must organize our territories and our cities, making them able to adapt to the climate, and this intervention goes in this direction. Mr President, I have had the opportunity, as a local administrator, of important cities, such as Venice, to see how unfortunately the system of detecting air quality through the control units is anything but transparent; citizens often do not know it or are not widespread. With this intervention we create a comprehensive and transparent system in all cities; local authorities and managing bodies have the duty of transparency towards citizens and the national government takes charge of it, including it within the data of ISPRA, so that it allows a benchmark, that pushes the individual activities of the local administration towards the best. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is, of course, an extension to the people affected by disasters that have been dramatic. There is, then, the beginning of a discussion on the incentive of bulk products, on plug, with the contribution to neighborhood shops and medium structure (1,600 square meters of surface). The debate begins mainly with the draft budget law. In particular, the issue of plastics is of dramatic topicality and we must tackle it in a strong and determined way. This is the beginning of an effective reasoning and action. We must first go through the reduction. Of course, we need reuse, recycling, new technologies: of course they serve, from biodegradable plastics to all innovation. I recently visited the University of Berkeley, which is heading towards absolutely extraordinary directions in overcoming plastic and it is very interesting to see that at the head of this project, of international value, there is a very Italian researcher. However, it is clear that the first lever - and I close, Mr President - is that of reduction. The recycling policy is not enough, but the reduction policy is first and foremost needed. The measure under consideration is beginning to give a concrete response in this direction. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u15	Senator Pazzaglini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, Undersecretary, the act we are debating today concerns the conversion of Decree-Law No 111 of 2019, introducing urgent measures to comply with the obligations laid down in Directive 2008/50/EC. The first reflection I would now like to refer to is that concerning the prerequisites for the government's power of decree. We all know that the first and only precondition for the government to intervene with so-called urgent measures is that of necessity. I would therefore like to understand how we can say that it is necessary and urgent to take action to transpose a measure from 2008 into our legal system. I don't think I'm going to go behind or the easy political irony if I say that in reality the provision serves only and exclusively to satisfy the conscience of some souls of the majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If it were indeed an urgent measure, it would contain buffer measures to deal with the emergency; it would contain concrete solutions and what is necessary to overcome the emergency. Well, there is none of this. There is talk of experimentation, of measures aimed at assessing the impact of interventions which of substance have very little; however, there is not only a buffer measure for the emergency, but also a medium and long-term programming that would have justified the term experimentation. In fact, there is absolutely nothing in the measure about medium and long-term programming. However, before we go into the details of the measure, I would like to focus on one of the last articles, Article 7, which deals with measures to encourage bulk products or thorns. It was initially planned for neighbourhood and medium-sized activities, and then extended to major activities. This measure, although criticized by some of my colleagues, could have had meaning; if the aim is to intervene in favour of the climate, it is clear that large businesses and large enterprises have the opportunity to do so in a more incisive way than medium-sized and small enterprises. So this part I might even understand. However, I would like to understand why, when we tried to extend this measure to the benefit of agricultural products, the majority voted against: what do you have against agriculture? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I remember the discussion a few days ago about the transfer of the skills of tourism from agriculture to cultural activities. We were against it because it was a solution that we had adopted, but we did so with knowledge of the cause and with concrete reasons. I would remind you of the debate on diesel subsidies, which are essential for agricultural activity, because we know that the sector without subsidies and without public aid would not be able to move forward, partly because it is very sensitive to unfair competition from countries which do not have at all the protections that ours guarantees. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I mean bad. Those who are not particularly suitable for the exercise of an activity are often called "arms stolen from agriculture"; my fear is that some of the majority have not understood that it is a joke and, thinking that really they will have to return to work in the field of agriculture, they want to destroy it because terrified of the future that is ahead of them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Going into detail of the solutions, in my opinion, the ideology that motivated the measure to our examination is found not only in the text of the decree-law, but also in the text of the amendments submitted by the government. I refer in particular to amendment 4.0.851, which should introduce the 'Green Capital of Italy'. Our beautiful territory, our nation as a territorial extension is not very large, because it consists of about 330 square kilometers, but is characterized by a level of anthropization that has caused the whole territory to be inhabited. This has allowed, to safeguard our territory, the establishment of many parks, both national and regional. So, from this point of view, ours is a valuable territory. So what's the point of thinking about green capital now? Always to say evil, I believe that it is intended to justify the presence of wild boars in Rome. We set up the green capital because we have this problem in Rome. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Now, however, I would like to enter into the substance of the eight articles which, as I said before, contain a lot of smoke, but little roasted, despite the attempts of the majority to improve this measure; attempts which have clashed with a wall of unfairness because they put Article 81 as a reason against the acceptance of some of our amendments, when several proposals did not foresee any need for economic coverage, obviously it meant only and exclusively to oppose the desire to cooperate with the opposition in order to ensure that the measure improves in substance. As I said, however, we enter into the substance of the articles, starting with Article 1, which contains: "urgent measures for the definition of a national strategic policy". I wonder again whether this is an urgent measure to tackle a situation of necessity, or is it a matter of planning a national strategy. If this is the first case, then the decree would have been justified but there is no trace of the necessary measures in the text. If this is the second case, it should not have been the subject of a decree-law. The climate is one of the sensitive issues, one of the sensitive issues on which we should all discuss, regardless of political membership, but this cannot happen if we are to convert a decree that technically has its time and its needs. Moving forward in the deepening of the measure in our examination, I would like to immediately touch on Article 2, which, in my opinion, contains this ideological opposition again. Article 2 provides for measures to promote sustainable mobility in metropolitan areas. So we're talking about an experimental program in paragraph 1, we're not talking about it in paragraph 2, but basically we're talking about experimental measures again. I wonder what kind of experimental measures they have, because if it really were the aim of improving the air quality of our cities, they would have to include measures aimed at this purpose. If, on the other hand, we are going to look at the substance of the consequences of the measure for our examination, we see that there are no measures for improving air quality, but there is something else. Article 3, in particular, provides that experimental projects for school transport may be financed. Anyone of common sense would think that the aim is to reduce polluting emissions from means of transport and the criterion to be adopted should therefore be to intervene in favour of longer journeys because pollution caused by a means of transport is not calculated on the basis of the number of pupils transported, as stated in Article 3, but on the basis of the route travelled. In fact, we know very well that if a school bus carries a student for 20 kilometers it pollutes much more than a school bus carrying 20 students for one kilometer only. So common sense and logic would have determined that the funding would be paid by the medium that faced the longest path, but you, in Article 3, write that the criterion of admission to financing is the number of children transported. That is why I believe that we are only making ideology and that there are no concrete measures. Unfortunately, my time is running out, so, trusting in the skill of my colleagues to get on with it, I simply want to conclude with a hint of two issues that I particularly care about. The first is contained in Article 4. Specifically, the conclusion of the fourth paragraph of Article 4 provides that action shall be taken to prevent hydrogeological risk where deemed necessary. In my opinion, the wording of Article 4 means that the applicability of this text is not limited only to metropolitan cities, as it should in theory be, but is applicable to the whole of the national territory. This suspicion is supported by the speech that I have just read that would make me think that the intention is not to intervene for the forestation in the metropolitan cities but to adopt prevention measures against hydrogeological risk also in other areas of the territory. And since this would clash with a bill already presented by the League, which instead provides for the cleaning of hives in the most endangered areas, I hope that my suspicion is escaped and the Government will clarify that the applicability of this decree-law does not concern mountain areas. The last consideration is as follows: I would like to understand what objective is being pursued by the Government's amendment 5.0,850, which provides for the re-introduction of green helmets for the environment. I remind everyone that we already had green helmets for the environment. They were called the State Forestry Corps, which has been suppressed! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to understand whether colleagues in the Democratic Party have regretted the measure which, in fact, abolished the State Forestry Corps and, perhaps stimulated by the Minister, who, on the other hand, should have an in-depth knowledge of it, want to re-introduce them; or if you introduce a new figure, as in substance it will be. If this is the goal, then let's go back to discussing that unholy reform because, however, a body that could meet these needs, with skills, experience and competence, we already had it, and we still have it, with the professionalism they had acquired. We do not, therefore, make mirror measures for the lark - as this is obviously - and we try to seriously reason on a structural reform of the state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting a path that will have to mark a radical change of course in the fight against climate change, in the improvement of the air quality that we breathe and, ultimately, in our lifestyle. Despite its experimental character, Law No 1547 is certainly a response to wrong production and consumption patterns that have neglected their main recipient: man. It is emblematic that the climate decree arrives in the Hall on the eve of the feast of the tree, which reminds us, since 1898, of its importance for life on the Planet. I am convinced that it is a good omen for the decree-law, incipit of the green new deal, the cornerstone of the current Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The decree also arrives in the Chamber a few days after the drama of the high water of Venice, similar to that of the tragic 1966. It's been over half a century. We are colonizing space, but we have not preserved an enchanting, unique and unparalleled city of art. The danger increased due to climate change, but the billionaire bulkheads, well oiled by bribes, are still blocked. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Then comes autumn and exposes the hydrogeological fragility of the Italian territory, aggravated by the urban choices of the past and the climatic upheavals of the present. The recent apocalyptic scenes of Matera and Salento are a painful warning. Action must be taken immediately to reduce emissions of climate-friendly gases and to improve air quality. The decree-law in question stems precisely from the need to comply with a European directive setting out the objectives of air quality, aimed at improving human health and the quality of the environment; non-compliance with the directive: two infringement procedures for the overcoming of NO2 and PM10, referral to the Court of Justice for non-compliance, risk of conviction with millionaire disbursements. For particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide, the Italian situation is dramatic. We have the primacy in Europe for premature deaths from exposure to fine PM2.5 dusts. Only in 2016, there were 45,600. This was revealed a few days ago by the famous magazine "Lancet" in the paper "Countdown on health and climate change," which involved 35 research institutions and 120 researchers around the world. The particulates with a diameter of less than 2,5 dispersed in the air can penetrate into the pulmonary alveoli and pass into the blood. The health of children and infants, with long-term impact, is at stake. In Italy the situation in the Po Valley and in urban centres is very critical. But people get sick and die of nitrogen dioxide and tropospheric ozone, as the recent report by the European Environment Agency on air quality shows. This terrible record must shake us and induce us to intervene as soon as possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On November 5th, on "Bioscience" (impact factor 7), a major international magazine, the paper/appeal "World scientists' warning of a climate emergency" appeared, signed by 11.258 scientists from 153 nations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another appeal has recently appeared, according to which there is no emergency. On the other hand, according to the clear and strong voice of science, that we have the obligation and duty, as politicians and decision-makers, to always follow: Scientists have a moral obligation to clearly warn humanity of any catastrophic threat and to say so as it is. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] These are the words of the appeal. We clearly and unequivocally state that Planet Earth is facing a climate emergency, and that is what many people do not admit. It is necessary a huge increase in efforts to preserve our biosphere, in order to avoid unspeakable suffering due to the climate crisis, which is more serious than expected and threatens the natural ecosystems and the destiny of humanity. These are not my words, but those of the appeal. We believe that the prospects will be better if the decision-makers and all humanity respond promptly to this climate emergency and will act to sustain life on Planet Earth, our only home, with actions to be undertaken in the energy, industrial, ecosystem, nutritional and social sectors. In the Senate, just two weeks after the meticulous appeal of scientists, with the pride of those who know how to intercept people's needs, approving the decree climate trigger the necessary epochal change. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The climate decree launches a new environmental paradigm, outlining some immediate solutions for better air quality. I quote a few. In Articles 2 and 3 sustainable mobility is encouraged, with a good mobility that can be spent to buy more environmentally friendly cars, bicycles, public transport subscriptions. In Article 4, a two-year experimental programme of urban and peri-urban forestation is financed with EUR 30 million. The trees absorb both CO2 and dust: in the implementation it will be better to prefer the most effective ones for this task, but autochthonous and respecting biodiversity. Planting the trees provided by the decree-law the advantage is threefold: healthier air for millions of Italians, protected ecosystems, averting European condemnations. In short, well-being, eco-sustainability and money saved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For the urban forestation I stress my agenda that commits the Government to extend the experimentation, for now previewed for the only 14 Italian metropolitan cities, also to the municipalities chief town of Province. Among these, there are the capitals indicated in the infringement procedures that we have. Greater diffusion on the national territory would allow to promote in a more widespread way a new concept of green city that is necessary. In particular, the forestation of urban areas, compared to peri-urban and extra-urban areas, has a great impact among people also for reasons of proximity. I would also point out that paragraph 4 of Article 4 indicates the reforestation of the riparial and river areas as a criterion for the prevention of hydrogeological failure. If well cared for, in fact, the riparian wood - I say it as an expert and it is just so - has a beneficial archinota function of hydrogeological seal, as well as the ecosystem utility and the capture of CO2 and pollutants present in the air. Mr President, so much has been done in this decree-law, but much still needs to be done. It is certainly a start, a first step towards the future, and not because a European directive or a saving of a few million euros is required of us, but because the new generations, those who are going to protest in the streets because they want a better world than what they find today and we owe it to them, because it is their sacred right. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u19	You are registered to speak Senator Nastri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u20	Mr President, the so-called climate-saving decree-law in question aims - at least according to the report - to implement positive and concrete measures aimed at involving the administration at several levels, in order to achieve objectives which, according to the report, seem to be not very concrete and very vague, according to which a green new deal must be carried out that involve a radical change of cultural paradigm and include the protection of the environment and biodiversity as fundamental principles of our constitutional system. However, even on this occasion we cannot fail to see how this Government, like the previous one, has also imposed its policies on the environment exclusively with commercials. Frankly we expected more, especially following the statements of Minister Costa who, compared to the approval of the decree-law under consideration, spoke of a historical act for our Republic and, commenting on the Venice disaster, said that courageous political choices are needed. Well, Minister, I wonder where the courage in this decree-law is and what courageous choices have been made. The truth is that the measure under discussion is yet another announcement, a set of slogans, as from the beginning of the legislature we have become accustomed to above all the Movimento 5 Stars. Do you really think of starting the green new deal by sweeping away the facilities and putting the plants on the balconies of the houses? Do you really think it's enough to redo the facades of the palaces? The bleak truth is that unfortunately in this way you eliminate the green bonus to find the resources to only redo the facades of the condominiums. Perhaps this would have been an important opportunity to respond to the climatic emergencies that increasingly devastate our cities. Given that serious and concrete initiatives must be put in place, I wonder whether it would not have been better to reduce the resources of citizenship income in order to invest them perhaps in the prevention and the contrast to hydrogeological failure. As the Minister is well aware, precisely the impotence of our system that we see every day - even today newspapers speak of the climatic devastation - gives the sense of inadequacy not only of the decree-law under consideration, but perhaps also of the Executive itself, which perhaps is increasingly succubated by the ideological fury of the 5 Star Movement. On the one hand, any work is blocked - as we see with what happened in Venice with the Mose - and, on the other hand, solutions are not offered that can truly deal with the emergencies of the country: we have seen it in the economy and we see it today also on environmental issues. We find that only EUR 30 million is foreseen for the two-year period 2020-2021 for reforestation operations in urban areas, but involving local authorities and - as a matter of fact - not individual citizens. To enter into the substance of the provision, I begin with paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 4 of the decree-law. Initially, simplification was envisaged for the explantation and replanting of olive trees for landscape purposes. They were then eliminated at the last moment for no reason. This decision also says a lot about the attention of this Government especially to some areas of the South (let's think about Puglia and Salento itself). The environmental and also social and cultural tragedy, in view of the enormous damage to the heritage of the city of Venice - in these days it is submerged by water and the lagoon is now completely devastated - would impose and impose strict political decisions, strong choices, firmness and the allocation of important resources that - in our opinion - this Government is unable to realize. In essence, in the decree-law under consideration - as I said earlier - there is a clearly insufficient regulatory framework in relation to the real needs of the country. Minister, I remember very well that the first time you came to the Commission you wanted to enter into real and concrete relations to encourage those who invest in the green, especially in the city. All this, unfortunately, has not been done. I would also add - as other Members have said - that the UN has repeatedly stressed the importance of less CO2 emissions and, on the other hand, the need to create realities that could absorb it. In countries such as Canada, China and Russia special power stations have been built, while in Italy there is no talk of this. Not only that: an important sector is also put at risk, which, in addition to the green, is worth a total of 2.5 billion euros and has about 100,000 employees in 27,000 companies. We are talking about the categories of florovivaism that - I remember - represents a sector of production of excellence of our country. The value of the production of floral farms accounts for more than 5% of total agricultural production. In essence, the decree-law under consideration does not satisfy us at all, it does not deal with the damage and dramatic data of the European Agency which, just a few weeks ago, established for Italy a new negative record, that of the first country of the European Union for premature deaths of nitrogen dioxide, with 14,600 people victims of air pollution. It is unacceptable that, in the face of such a tragedy, no attempt should be made within the majority to do something against smog. Moreover, it is enough to see the resources allocated in the 2020 budget maneuver on the environment, which are certainly ludicrous. These are measures and choices of environmental policy that are, in reality, exactly opposite to what Brothers of Italy think. Suffice it to see, for example, the introduction of the so-called plastic tax. This is certainly not the time to discuss it, but we will certainly do so during the examination of the draft budget law. However, we cannot help but think that plastic tax puts about 162,000 workers in the middle of the road. To say this it is not me, but the data of the Sun 24 Hours. It is a tax - yet another - that risks hitting the same consumers, penalized by the increase in prices that will result. Do you know what the joke is, Minister? From 2021, disposable plastic will be banned by the European Union, which confirms that plastic tax is only used to finance, in the end, this Government's welfare policies and deficits. Other than tax against plastic for the environment: do all this always for the so-called citizenship income. On this occasion we face the examination of a normative system that represents for Brothers of Italy a measure of flag, a text that in whose title is spoken of necessity and urgency but, analyzing its content well, in practice does nothing and above all does nothing. With regard to Article 1, the links between the new National Strategic Programme for Combating Climate Change and the Integrated National Plan are completely neglected. I would like to mention in the short time available that I have - but we will do so again in an explanation of vote - Articles 2 and 7. This measure certainly does not satisfy us, because it is very poor in content from the point of view of the interventions necessary for the change - for us it was fundamental - of the cultural paradigm, indispensable for the start of something completely different. Surely we have used very seductive Anglo-Saxon words, which can arouse interest and curiosity, announced by the Government and presented also in newspapers and news in magna, but in fact there is absolutely nothing within the measure. The judgment of Brothers of Italy is certainly negative. For the umpteenth time I dare to say that you mock the Italians, especially because you had announced, in the last year and a half, that poverty would be defeated and that 2020 would be a beautiful year. You assured us that the affair of the former Ilva would be resolved. We didn't believe you then and we certainly don't believe you now. We will do the same today in this House for this decree-law. You didn't have the courage to really announce something important and different. You announced the green new deal just to give some incentive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Nastri. NASTERS (FdI). You talked about the destruction of the most polluting cars. You have given a few thousand euros to the municipalities, who will be able to spend it to plant trees and upgrade the reserved lanes, and some incentive to the shops that will set up the counter for the detergents on the plug. Brothers of Italy will not be your accomplice in what is but yet another farce played on the skin and the future of Italians. Minister, you have completely disappointed us. We certainly expected something different. We will then have time to deepen all those articles that are the absolute void. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u21	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly encouraged the Minister - as the Minister is well aware - on the issues of finance, and last week, in the context of question time, I raised the issue of finance. I will therefore not think about this decree-law - partly because I am no longer a member of the Environment Commission and my colleagues will be able to do it much better - but about the financial sector that we cannot consider disconnected from a number of measures that you have identified within the measure and that certainly, if they were implemented, would be to be welcomed. That's for sure, because we all know the climate emergency. But I'm afraid all those measures remain on paper. You know what entrepreneurs would say? They would say: how do you get on the ground, Minister, these measures? It is the question that the operators, the concrete ones, and the entrepreneurs - I belong to this category - would pose to you as Minister. In autumn 2018, climatologists said that, in order to achieve the very ambitious objectives of the Treaty of Paris of 2015, we should halve the use of fossil fuels by 2030 and even zero them by 2050. This is to prevent global warming of the Planet rising by another three degrees by the end of the century, causing a damage that has been quantified by the experts - I report what I read in certain magazines - in 550,000 billion dollars, that is, a damage that would be much, much more serious than what was quantified in 2015 by the director of the Bank of England in 20,000 billion, if we blocked the resources of gas, oil and coal. The first question that comes to me - I am asking you, Minister, as a member of the Government - is: in a world dominated by Trump, Bolsonaro, Putin, oil companies, large investment funds, large banks and large insurance companies, how can we achieve the ambitious objectives set out in the Treaty of Paris? I'm afraid it's extremely complicated. The time has come when - in my opinion - politics should dictate the agenda to finance. The time has also come when climate change, of which we are all filling our mouths, must necessarily be accompanied by two other types of change, which must have a global and global profile. The environment is not only a problem for Italy and not only for Europe, but also for the world, so we should also face cultural and political changes. That is why I say that politics should be again the protagonist - I do not know how much Italian politics is, I have serious doubts - just to dictate the agenda to finance. One thing: in the three years following the signing of the Treaty of Paris, whose objective was precisely to encourage the world to move away from fossil fuels, the loans of the largest banks, as well as insurance - as you know, Minister, they must issue policies for major works, and I am referring not only to oil pipelines but also to extreme works - have increased in an incredible way towards this sector. The conclusion that I draw is that the entire financial sector has a huge responsibility in terms of climate crisis, while knowing all the consequences of the crisis. Before I gave you a data that was reported by the Governor of the Bank of England. Similarly, if you make an analysis of insurance companies, you will notice that these, since the 1970s, had assessed the risks related to the climate, to the point that they thought it was extremely risky to go to ensure territories, because policies would not have been sufficient to cover the risk arising from the climatic crises. Another reflection: I wonder if - clearly we must go on the international front - if there is any chance that Chase, one of the largest banks in the world, will stop financing fossil fuels. Perhaps this, Minister, is practically impossible, because this bank has become a global giant under the leadership of Rockefeller, the one who created his first U.S. oil fortune by founding the Standard Oil Company. I say this simply to put in very concrete terms a problem that has so many reports that I fear - I repeat - that what has been written in this climate measure is to be considered as something written on paper but extremely difficult to implement. In Europe there are virtuous cases of banks: Crédit Agricole said that he would no longer do business with companies expanding their coal business and immediately after Japanese and Singapore banks followed this message. I wonder, then, what is the message that Italian politics gives to the largest banks in our country, such as Intesa or Unicredit. I don't know, because I didn't see anything like that. Minister, for many citizens it is difficult to abandon fossil fuels quickly, because perhaps there is no railway section that allows them to go to work and, therefore, they have to use the machine. And also the policy of micro-taxes, adopted in a coercive way to deal from a cultural point of view with the change of paradigm, which sees the environment as a central element, I do not know if it is the right way. If, however, a strong signal were given to the banks, I believe that it would be much easier for citizens to change and move the current account perhaps to the smaller credit institutions, those of the territories, which certainly do not invest in oil companies. Another important signal clearly cannot fail to come from large investment funds. To me comes to mind BlackRock, which is the largest investment company in the world. And I say this to make it clear that the scope of this phenomenon cannot be national, but it is international. It is thought that BlackRock, if it were a state, would be the third largest after the United States and China. So BlackRock's message to shareholders, to that world of people investing in non-fossil but renewable energy. In this sense, I have not seen any of this, although the CEO of BlackRock has participated in that round table world where 150 companies have said that we need to go more and more towards an eco-sustainable balance and ethical companies. Do you know, though, what the CEO of that company did? He sent to all companies a letter in which he said that the world of companies must think not only of the profits of its shareholders, but also of the well-being of the Planet, and the environment is definitely a central theme. Too bad, though, that you continue to invest in oil companies. Colleagues, Minister, we must realize with objectivity what is happening also outside our country. If we hijacked our resources towards renewable energies, probably the four fifths of the world's population in countries that today have to pay to import fossil fuels would be much happier and the economies would benefit. The value of manufacturing and all high-intensity industries could be raised. What would happen, however, Minister, in countries such as Iran, Iraq, Arabia, Russia, Canada or Australia? I would have some doubts about their economic and financial sustainability, which would inevitably have lowered the rating of their government bonds. What you have indicated in this measure I think will remain on paper and it will not be a set of actions that will actually help to achieve those ambitious objectives for which we must be accountable to future generations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u23	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also greet Minister Costa, whom we have the pleasure of having in this House today, and which could only be so. We are finally talking about climate change, which is something on which I think all the senators in this House feel emotionally involved. We have been talking about climate for a long time; much more in this last period. We started from Greta Thunberg, who, with her sad face, highlighted the problem, namely that something is actually changing in our territories. Some climatic events are happening more and more whirlwindly, even lately, and the mind inevitably goes to Venice, symbol of everything that has happened in our country, where we have actually had more than some damage. However - in my opinion - we must not be taken by the irrationality of behaviour from the legislative point of view; an irrationality which I note in the measure under consideration, and I shall enter into the substance. We must not get caught up in the emphasis of irrationality because we end up taking measures that often and willingly go empty. Well, I believe that in this decree-law there is not much of what our country needs to cope with the changes. Several aspects have been examined and discussed, including in relation to agriculture, from which I come as President of the Agriculture Commission. We are talking about climate change; I also look at Senator Taricco with whom we have shared a path, together with all our colleagues, in a cross-cutting way. In the Commission we have an assigned deal on climate change, but - I am addressing you, Minister Costa - I do not see any substance in this text. And I'm gonna go into the merits of the measure. The only positive element, with reference to the planting of some trees in the municipalities, is the incentives for planting green areas: it is fine to have allocated resources, but many measures sound exclusively palliative. I refer to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, where it is said that we buy school buses for those municipalities where the permitted limits of fine dust have been exceeded. Do we buy ecological buses only in the municipalities where there has been the overflow of the values of the fine dusts and for all the other municipalities that are next to us do nothing at all? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Gallone]] We know very well that a breath of wind is enough to move the air a few miles. In fact, what worries me is the absolute nullity of the interventions contained in the measure: in addition to doing absolutely nothing, there are very worrying measures. I am referring in particular to Amendment 1.0.8, signed by Senators Beginini and Nugnes, where we are talking about the establishment of the programme for the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies. Well, I would not like - and I am addressing you, Mr Costa, but I am also bringing Mr Bellanova to the table - to make any reference to the fact that we want to remove the incentives on agricultural diesel. As President of the Committee on Agriculture, I am terrified of this measure, and I explain why, Minister. You say no, but we are also concerned because the Undersecretary for Agriculture L'Abbate, in an audiovisual interview, said that it is better to remove the incentive. I say to you, then: remove it from the beginning because agriculture needs investment and not to eliminate incentives on agricultural gas oil. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu]] I'll also explain technically why, Minister. If you want to remove the agricultural gas oil because it may pollute, there are alternatives: there is the biomethane that agriculture can produce inside the farm, with the circular economy. The farmer, alone or associated, can make himself a biodigestor from which to extract the biomethane that he can put in his agricultural tractor. So, we have the circular economy at 360 degrees and it pollutes much less than electric vehicles as well. It is shown, from a technological point of view, that biomethane as a technology, at the end of the life cycle of a medium, pollutes to a lesser extent than an electric medium. However - I am addressing you, Minister - we do not see any incentives for this, because, if you want to make a biodigestor or you want to invest in biomethane, we have a bureaucracy to deal with: the government has been talking for several months about deburring, but until now we have seen absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I want to reflect politically on this measure, because we cannot ignore it. Senator Eugenio Beginini, who signed amendment 1.0.8, is part of Italy Viva, whose political leader is Minister Bellanova, whose behaviour I do not understand. Is Minister Bellanova some kind of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde? It is Dr. Jekyll when he speaks in the meetings, in the conferences or when he comes to speak to the Joint Committees of the House and Senate and says that it is necessary to give incentives and subsidies to agriculture, to ensure that our agriculture evolves: surely all this is beautiful and positive. But then Minister Bellanova turns into Mr. Hyde when he arrives within the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy and has his political leader, Senator Eugenio Beginini, present an amendment that removes the incentives on agricultural gas oil and when, at the Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry Policies, he starts talking about the sugar tax, which will bring the entire agricultural sector to its knees. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] or plastic tax, which for the agriculture sector, with all the containers for the preservation of foodstuffs, will surely be a terrible chop. In my opinion the government should do things in a sensible way and above all it should rearrange the ideas, because before thinking about putting absurd taxes to solve the environmental problem, it is necessary to implement all those technologies that are present, from the technological point of view, in our country. It is only necessary to finance them and it is not necessary to block the activity of farmers, with the hypothesis of removing the incentive on agricultural gas oil, because at a time when our agriculture is in great difficulty, even if only thinking of initiatives such as these surely sink the Made in Italy and a sector that constitutes one of the pillars of the country's economy. So I invite the government to tidy up the ideas, because positive experiences are there and even only by copying such positive experiences you can do something winning for the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u25	Senator Papatheu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u26	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, when we talk about the environment, we are all here, as people, as brothers and sisters, as a family, because we all live in the environment. However, I find it hard to believe that, during the Commission's work, we did not want to share a path which also took account of our proposals, which in most cases have been rejected and others even have not been taken into account, due to the alleged absence of cover, even where there were no State charges. We always see proclamations and the use of terms to emphasize the measures, as happens in this case with the climate decree, which however of climate, frankly, treats very little. What leaves me truly perplexed and sometimes discourages me also from intervening, is the lack of sensitivity towards the South and, in particular, the fact that we also find in our colleagues in the South the same lack of sensitivity that the past governments have reserved for us. These measures will also be, as you said, the first step towards change, but of course the change, with regard to the gravity of the situation, cannot be done with measures that, once again, weigh on the pockets of Italians and especially companies. Unfortunately, in fact, certainly because of the budgetary constraints and the economic crisis, we have again addressed all our political activity penalising the pockets of Italians and businesses. As Mrs Tiraboschi rightly said, Italy cannot alone suffer the burden of an international policy conditioned by China. Today we have China in our home; in China there is even a tax system that allows companies in that country to compete unfairly, not paying taxes for the first three years, unlike and in spite of the Italian ones. How, then, can we think of hitting plastic with the measures we are considering today or with the plastic tax included in the draft budget law? All these measures will do nothing but favor foreigners, who are naturally already colonizing Italy, and penalising our country. Among other things, Minister, I take the opportunity to ask you to take charge of companies such as the Dacca di Aci Sant'Antonio, in the province of Catania, on which I have submitted two questions, unfortunately in deficit: 100 employees have been fired who, being plastic dealers, are now ignored by the legislator. We cannot think of giving a green turn by taxing, because the production system does not stand. Everyone will inevitably delocalise productions abroad, as most Italian companies already do. With regard to measures related to the circular economy, which today is an excellence in Italy, I remind you that last century plastic was an investment with capital I, while today it is punished, hitting businesses and citizens. I turn once again to my colleagues in the South, as I do: we do not have the bike paths. Paradoxically, a family, composed, in Sicily, at least by four or five people, should give up the benefit of the car against a subscription for buses, which in Sicily, unfortunately, as I think in the rest of Southern Italy, are few and work even very badly. This type of legislation may perhaps be more appreciated in the North, but I have seen that there are no such sensitivities there either. Therefore, this measure does little for the climate, if not for the name. I do not know if you have already read the newspapers: for the budget maneuver we talk about maneuvering taxes and handcuffs; in this case they are only taxes. This will lead to a further increase in the financial burden on businesses. I invite you, once again, to consider and reverse your position, as you should have done with the income of citizenship: perhaps it would have been much more profitable to give the 780 euros to the companies they hire, rather than directly to the people, since we have seen that 60% of these supposed poor are instead of the scammers, who have benefited from this money. We avoid having, with this fierceness on plastic manufacturers, other cases Ilva coated on national territory. I think that this situation must be completely reversed, but not because I say it, but because we see the percentages that we have achieved: the economic indicators contained in the Svimez report today give us a country on our knees. I invite you to read in particular the data on the phenomenon of migrants, those who leave, not immigrants. In Sicily, there are now two million migrants who have left in recent years and the report confirms this type of trend. I conclude by saying that, sadly, the report of the European Environment Agency informs us that Italy is the first in Europe for premature deaths due to high concentrations of ozone and nitrogen dioxide. The annual report on air quality drawn up by the European Environment Agency - I recall that the decree-law in our examination refers to European climate-related legislation and precisely to urgent measures to comply with the obligations of Directive 2008/50 on air quality, but in our Parliament it has taken a much more effective name, namely "climate decree" - notes that Italy is the first country in the European Union for premature deaths: we are faced with data that indicate 76,000 deaths, a real war. This is why the so-called green new deal, which is so much talked about in Italy and Europe, must do more and certainly these measures cannot be the ones that will lead the country to improve by delivering us different data. I conclude by recalling, being one of the oldest among you, Severn Suzuki, the first Greta, who in 1992, on the occasion of the speech before the representatives of the United Nations said: "We are what we do, not what we say". Well, what you're doing makes me cry at night. You keep saying that you love us, but I challenge you: please, let your actions reflect your words. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u27	We greet the students and teachers of the Classical European High School National Council ›Mario Cutelli › in Catania, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u28	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by starting from the awareness that the quality of life of the younger generation and the next generation depends on the choices we are making in these years and in the immediate future. We've been saying that for decades. It was 1992, the year of the Rio de Janeiro land summit, when the agreement for the Conferences of the Parties to the UN Climate Change Convention came into being. It was intended to establish guidelines for the effective implementation of the agreements with an important observation: the two-degree limit established in Paris by 2050 would be a devastating blow to the planet, so it would be a priority to stop the increase in global temperatures to 1.5 degrees. But what has changed since the 1992 Rio de Janeiro summit? Global emissions from fossil fuels exceeded 37 billion tonnes of CO2 in 2018: a record. As many as 69 percent more since 1990 with steady growth over the years. To the already dramatic consequences caused by global warming, such as the decline in oxygen, frequent and destructive rains and cyclones, the increase in water levels and the melting of glaciers, is added the loss of biodiversity resulting from the many pollutants that we, with our production disrespectful of environmental matrixes, cause. Protecting biodiversity is not only pierced by generous respect for Earth's creatures, but also a real contribution to human survival. We are in a monstrous delay on the intentions of that 1992, so any further hesitation will be an irreparable condemnation. For these urgent reasons, the climate decree is the opener necessary to route significant interventions for a reversal of trend, implementing a strategy to combat climate change and pollution. And so we have planned the experimental programme "Good mobility" with a budget of 255 million over five years to replace the polluting means in cities at the highest risk of exceeding the limits and, at the same time, vouchers for subscriptions to public transport or assisted cycling, financed the transport projects, by hybrid or electric means, of children's school and the first cycle of education. And again, funds for planting trees and forestry, for urban and periurban reforestation, reforestation also necessary to prevent the hydrogeological risk in the adjacent areas of the watercourses. We expect more effective bodies for environmental issues subject to EU infringement procedures on unfair landfills, collection, sewer and purification systems, as well as greater publicity of environmental data to promote public involvement in decision-making and access to justice in the environment; measures are provided for the encouragement of areas equipped within commercial establishments intended for the sale of bulk products or plugs, the so-called green corners, to meet the primary need of the circular economy, i.e. the reduction of waste. A contribution to this is also made by the bill at my first signature, deposited last month, which aims to facilitate companies producing liquid dispensers if the same are sold as objects to themselves and not as an integral part of the product to be dosed. Sensibilising the consumer to the concept of reuse is essential for the reduction of landfill objects. In short, the situation is emerging and requires interventions on several fronts and, on the contrary, has seen to date few concrete actions. It seems incredible but so far it has been allowed to compromise food safety, water resources, the health of the Planet and mankind. It is time for national and international politics to take decisive action for that desired green new deal to protect everything that is indispensable to life. It is time that political representatives really looked beyond the short horizon of personal interests. The application of environmental regulations is a priority, together with environmental education from kindergarten to university. The public must also take an active part in the application of environmental legislation, taking care to denounce any violations of laws. In line with the principles of sustainable development, efforts are directed towards protecting resources and preventing pollution in all economic sectors. Never before must we take responsibility for what we do: we owe it to future generations and to our planet Earth. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u29	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will not be on the precise substance of the articles of the decree-law before us, which, among other things, I consider essential and fundamental in the many aspects that my colleagues have already referred to. President, today I am addressing you as Vice President - given the absence of President Casellati for other commitments and also for those who will sit on that prestigious and important chair with such an important role also and above all of balance. Some amendments to the decree-law to our examination, which, I repeat, is important, have not been accepted - which is legitimate - but their failure to accept them has been "marked" with the so-called Article 81. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, and that of all Members in view of the budgetary manoeuvre that we will be engaged in next week in the Commissions, with more than 4,000 amendments, to recall the way in which Article 81 is used. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Article 81 is an amended article of the Constitution. An irreproachable amendment under Article 81 of the Constitution does not have problems of consistency with the provisions of the measure, it does not have the coverage: that is, in some way, it would weaken the revenue and expenditure in the state budget. There are some important amendments tabled to this decree-law, two of my colleagues, Senator Briziarelli and Senator Arrigoni, who went in the direction of a particular environmental situation, repeatedly referred to in several interviews, namely the green new deal, that is, the attention to the environment. They were two amendments that did not need financial cover, but they were very important. One concerned the possibility, where there are quarries that have finished their mining cycle, without prejudice to all the provisions to be followed, of converting them to areas where photovoltaic plants are installed, going, therefore, towards renewable sources. This amendment was virtually dismissed, declaring it impervious under Article 81 of the Constitution, while in the amendment it is clearly written that it did not involve expenditure. Well, since almost all senators, especially of the new majority, look at the Constitution as the Bible, if we are to use Article 81 of the Constitution, let us use it with the right criterion: either an amendment is inadmissible for other reasons or the impromptuness of Article 81 is stated only where there is no coverage. I have been in the Budget Committee for a few months and, in recent months, I have seen Article 81 referred to as the whole for singers, while Article 81 belongs to the Constitution. I would therefore ask you, Mr Vice-President - and I understand that you are also involved with many other issues - and, I repeat, all those who will sit and alternate on that matter, to be very careful, during the budgetary manoeuvre, to ensure that the opinion contrary to Article 81 is expressed only and exclusively where there is no coverage. This is in order not to be in the position of senators, such as Arrigoni, Briziarelli, Pazzaglini and many others, who work for the good of our country and whose work, for a simple political oversight, is dismissed according to an article not appropriate with everything else. We're senators. The Constitution must be respected, regardless of the symbol and pin we display! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u31	Senator Faggi, the Presidency as a whole is, of course, the guarantor of all the regulatory procedures for evaluating all the amendments and is careful, committed and not distracted by anything. Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are here to convert a decree-law into law which mentions in its title the obligations relating to the European Directive 2008/50 and the extension of time limits for interventions relating to the earthquake. As the rapporteur rightly said in her introductory report this morning, we are actually talking much more about this. We are talking about a strategic programme for improving air quality and this, of course, in implementation of this directive: we are talking about sustainable mobility and related incentives, especially in metropolitan areas, which suffer greatly for this; we are talking about promoting school transport; we are talking about actions for reforestation and then, in addition to the issue of Community infringements, the advertising of environmental data and the incentive to loose products and thorns. We are therefore talking about a set of initiatives and measures, about the launch of a programme of actions to improve our relationship with the environment, that is, to improve the relationship between us and the environment in which we live. When this measure was issued we read titles that spoke of the start-up, the first piece of a new green deal; here we have heard judgments that what we are talking about is still little. I believe that the effects, then, we will all be able to assess them together, but surely we are talking about a measure that goes in the right direction, that is, in the direction of addressing a number of issues that are now in the awareness of everyone, relating to the context in which we live. In the past few months and weeks the newspapers have discussed a lot, wondering if the events that Greta had brought to our attention and the movement that he had aroused were real and real, if they were to be taken into consideration and in what manner. I believe that this issue, which has been dealt with in this way, does not make any sense. We have - and I believe it is everyone's awareness - a general situation regarding the use of plastics which - as the press informs us - sees in the ocean an island of plastic waste about how big the Iberian Peninsula and this is a given. We have a situation related to thin dusts, in general but in particular in the Po Valley (also because of its geographical conformation), which undermines the health of all those who live mainly in urban areas: I have two children living in the center of Turin and, objectively, if one leaves a cloth outside, he does not need to explain that there is smog, you see it on the cloth with the naked eye. With regard to the water layer situation, practically the first layer is compromised throughout the territory and in many cases there are good levels of impact even on the second layers. The situation of landfills and waste on the ground is such that we do not know what the deadline for returning to normal will be. We have a picture of general fragility, from the hydrogeological point of view, that covers all our territories; there are lands that are breaking down, territories that were once managed and cultivated, while today they are in a state of abandonment and are collapsing from the hydrogeological point of view. That is a fact. And if Greta's story, in the ways and in the terms in which she did it, has led us to look more closely at all these issues, I believe it does us great good. Faced with this scenario, which we all have and must be aware of, each one of us is asked on an individual level for his personal behavior in everyday life. But in this House we are called upon as legislators, as people who have the need, the obligation, the duty, the task of taking charge of this state of affairs and of trying to put in place measures that try to deal with it. I believe that the issue of the end of waste, which we have addressed in recent days, has put some pickets that go in the right direction, in order to create the space and the opportunity to transform the waste and return to valorize them in a perspective of circular economy. I believe that, in the same way, this package of measures, from another but equally important point of view, gives a sign and indicates a direction, a horizon to guide the choices we make. It does so in a concrete way, because there are rules and measures that have been well described and which I will briefly quote, but it also does so in a cultural way, saying that this is the way we want to go. While I was thinking about the measure, I was reminded of a phrase I heard in the speech about the establishment of the former President of the European Parliament Pat Cox, who quoted the verses of the greatest Irish poet, John Butler Yeats, verses that have always made me think a lot and they said: "And my dreams I have laid under your feet; walk lightly, that you may walk on my dreams." I think that when we consider the environmental context, the prospects for the quality of life of the communities in which we live, we should feel this phrase as something that people around us, our children, tell us about the choices we are called to make every day. In my opinion, the decree-law in question, in the very limited nature of a punctual provision, goes in this direction. Helping more sustainable mobility, creating preferential lanes for local public transport, for school transport by electric and hybrid means, supporting forestation also in urban and peri-urban areas, addressing the issue of reclamations, contributing and encouraging the sale of bulk products, thus reducing packaging, creating an environmental database that makes data relating to the environment transparent, are initiatives that I believe go absolutely in the right direction. That is why, even with the possible improvements that we have tried to make with the amendments and that we will try to continue to do, I believe it is essential that we give our full support to this measure. With regard to amendment 1.0.8, mentioned earlier in some speeches, on a steering booth in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, I am told that it may be withdrawn. Having said that, we had proposed an amendment to the second part which clarifies the contours better, because from a general point of view we can only agree with that. I consider it essential to verify the environmental sustainability of the incentives put in place by the government, however, with our amendment we go to point out that those sectors that were encouraged were so because they played a function that was believed to have a social value; therefore, if we remove this incentive we will have to replace with others, because the objective is still to be pursued. However, I consider it a mistake to criticize the intentions of a measure which in its precise definition is absolutely acceptable. I am going to conclude by saying only that in my opinion the measure we are discussing today is important, because it sets out a path and defines some content and in this sense it should see everyone's cooperation to improve it, as it is always necessary to do, as far as possible. However, we must all be aware that the path we are tracing is in the right direction. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u33	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u34	Mr President, the decree-law that this House is about to convert confirms that the best is the enemy of good. Let me explain better: the Government and the majority of us confirm that they could have done their work well on an important subject and that instead, driven by the frenzy of doing something better, something more, they presented us with a measure that brings together heterogeneous objects, dealt with superficially. Someone in the Commission said it was better than nothing, but on such an important subject it might have been better to start working on the right time on a subject at this level. In the end, they have worked to maintain their best, without giving minorities the opportunity to intervene effectively: this is not new and we are not surprised, but we see it once again. 11:59 a.m. (Benutti followed). I'm back to good and better. The measure we are debating today could have been a useful and important opportunity to reflect well on the issue of air quality, following the obligations arising from the Euro-Union forecasts. Moreover, as indicated in the title, the measure contains urgent measures to comply with the obligations laid down in Directive 2008/50/EC on air quality. Since, however, this Government and this majority seem to want to pursue a fantomatic better, at least from the semantic point of view (in fact, only from the semantic and communicative point of view), from the headlines it must have seemed right to pass from the quality of the air to the climate and, then, from the Italian to the English, with the announcement of a green new deal that could ammantarare of a moor green their Giallorossi action. So, what could have been a well-made measure, becomes something between procrastinating and procrastinating without effectiveness, with the promise to do something more and, once again, better, with the budget law. From what we have seen so far, in the perspective of this Government, the best, when it's okay, is to ask the citizens who work to exchange their car with an electric bicycle, while, when it goes wrong, to squeeze with the imposition of taxes a sector like that of plastic, putting in alarm and risk entire districts, without offering solutions of perspective that can combine environmental sustainability with the economic one, as if, moreover, one excluded the other, which absolutely is not and cannot and must not be. Coming to the merits of the measure, among the implementing decrees, obligations in the administration without the forecast of resources and interministerial tables, which should intervene without additional burdens on public finance, already Article 1 is very concerned. Even more worrying is the punitive will that, after being foiled in the text of the decree-law, reappears with Article 1-a, which eliminates subsidies considered environmentally harmful, without considering that such subsidies are important for the survival of many sectors, not least that of the energy mentioned in the text. As already mentioned, it is also surprising that, apart from the scarce resources provided for in Article 2 for the experimental programme on good mobility, the latter provides that citizens who have Euro 2 or Euro 3 cars or motorcycles may decide to change them for good mobility for public transport, as if they were substitute goods. I think it is almost crazy, also because if we have any idea how local public transport (TPL) works at national and central level (Rome is certainly not secondary and can be mentioned for example) this must make us think a lot and I do not think this is a solution. Then we continue with new superficial interventions in the field of school transport, providing for a mild reforestation and scarce resources for the sale of bulk products or on plug, and then, again, attempt to face the procedures of infringement in the matter of the environment with a single Commissioner. The question then is: what does the Minister want to do about it? And, once again, it will have to act using the human and instrumental resources available to existing legislation, without new or increased burdens on public finance. In short, Mr President, it is clear that we are far from what could have been done well. Nevertheless, the opposition proposals, which would give substance and vision to a much improved measure, have not been taken into account. The majority said no to constructive proposals that could be made. Mr President, I do not think it is necessary to go any further. Clearly, more and better could and should have been done. It is equally clear, however, that the Government and the majority have been pursuing too many strands in a broken-down way, resulting in poor results. From the opposition I will continue and continue, in this House, our responsible work, aimed at proposing visions and concrete instruments that underpin the good of the quality of our air, our environment, which can be truly protected and improved only if this objective is pursued in a timely manner and with the indispensable offer of instruments that are sustainable even for those who move our economy. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u36	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to decide to act on the environment. We are talking about the climate emergency and all the other aspects related to it: social, health and economic. We are talking about the disasters that live not only in Italy, but the whole world. The alarm cry already voiced several times on every social side has been as loud as unheard of by politics. The Planet is overheating compared to pre-industrial levels and this in our country is turning into devastating fires, landslides, increasingly frequent flooding of streams and rivers, floods, destructive clouds, powerful air trumpets never seen before, progressive desertification of the territories, proliferation of harmful insects and drought. Thus millions of people suffer from water shortages and altered climates and increase diseases due to polluting emissions. The alarms of scientists were numerous, but unheard of by politics. The first major alarm was launched in the 1970s by numerous scientists from forty nations who met in Geneva for the first world climate conference, but nothing has been done in practice since then because of political inertia. Forty years of environmental activity have been lost. Other serious alarms were unsuccessfully repeated over the years and no later than three weeks ago more than 11,000 scientists around the world, against the results of the research carried out, signed the report "World scientists' warning of a climate emergence" which leaves no room for doubt as to the seriousness of the situation. It is not the time of words: now the urgency is to act concretely. What measures should be taken? Science tells us to urgently adopt a radical reform of the energy sector: moving from the exploitation of fossil fuels to the production of energy from renewable and clean sources. Reducing polluting emissions, achieving a sustainable economy and protecting natural ecosystems. This has to be done. Legislators all over the world have a responsibility to act urgently in the directions indicated by science, direction taken by movements of citizens, boys and girls who manifest for the environment all over the world, but not at all transposed by politics. Italy today is promoting climate protection with this decree-law that we are transforming into law. This decree is part of a path that will continue with a number of other rules. It is only the urgent beginning. This is the first totally environmental decree-law ever realized; it is the first legislative act of the Government that inaugurates the green new deal: the new environmental awareness. Then there will be the financial maneuver with a law entirely dedicated to environmental regulations, the so-called environmental connection. In the meantime, the process continues for the approval of the bill saving-sea, which has enriched becoming also save-rivers and save-lakes from plastic, as well as for the approval of the bill building-environment that aims to protect the country from hydrogeological failure. What are the interventions that we foresee with this decree-law? Improving air quality and consequently acting on the quality of our lives, affecting especially where there is more need, as in the areas affected by European infringements. Economic action must therefore also be taken, avoiding further infringements, i.e. further fines and disbursements. This decree encourages municipalities with resources aimed at developing sustainable mobility, the use of hybrid and electric school buses, the use of public transport, also by creating preferential lanes dedicated to them in the urban context, and recognizing among other things in hundreds of cities a good mobility to those who break cars and polluting motorcycles. It also provides important support for urban and peri-urban forestation, recognising the great role that trees play in combating climate change. With this decree we plan to create also a unique website of environmental data to ensure the transparency of data on air and water quality, which will always be made available by the public service dealers, and allow the citizen to participate in the environmental condition. We then want to strengthen the state, making more effective and concrete the commissioners for unfair landfills and waste water management, and reward the virtuous choices of shops, shops and markets that prepare a green corner for the sale of bulk products and plug, with the consequent reduction of plastic and unnecessary packaging. I remember that disposable packaging in supermarkets covers more than 80% of the products and less than half of the packages collected are then recycled and reused. They are therefore all interventions that affect our daily behavior, involving institutions, companies, citizens and young people in particular, in order to achieve what can be defined as a culture of everyday environment, that is, a path that begins with awareness and ends with good practices to protect the environment. We also have so many positive interventions contained in amendments that enrich the decree-law, but I would like to remind you of one of the most important norms, which I think are little talked about: I refer to Article 1, which accelerates the presentation by the whole Government of the National Strategic Programme to combat climate change and the improvement of air quality that will mark the programmatic economic interventions of this Government and of all subsequent ones. So we will finally have a broad, long-term panorama, drawn from the theme of environmental protection that goes towards eco-sustainability. We of the Movimento 5 Stars are aware that this decree-law is the first important step towards the new green path of Italy. To combat climate change there is no need for speeches, but concrete actions such as those that tend to make the decree-law under consideration. We also know that it is not easy to move from announcements to facts, because it is necessary to act together, we political forces of every nation. We as Nazione Italia today do our part to transform an entrepreneurial awareness, in the sense that if so far the environment has been considered a limit because of bureaucratic difficulties it now becomes an opportunity to make economic development realizing the so-called green new deal, that is the economy based on the environment and respectful of the environment. Investing in the environment with green technologies not only creates jobs, but also healthy and healthy jobs. To this end, we have always listened and will still listen to companies wishing to make economy with the environment, indeed we will be their allies towards this new business path. Clean energy must be a driving force for the Italian economy, the model to be pursued, that of the circular economy, where nothing is wasted, where nothing must return to nature as a polluting waste, but everything becomes an economic resource. We need to get out of the fossil-based economy, thus accompanying companies on this path of transition. I also firmly believe that we in this House are all convinced that this is the way forward. That is the way forward for future political generations to continue. With the approval of this decree-law we become an example for Europe and for the whole world. This measure puts Italy in the right direction, that of the green paths of the circular economy and the quality of the air. It is certainly a challenge that, instead of scaring us, must be the stimulus to be able to say one day: We started and the others followed our example. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u37	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u38	Mr President, Minister, it is clear that a decree-law will not be enough to give answers, of course urgent, necessary and no longer postponed, for the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change, to whose devastating implications we are - alas - assisting from North to South, from Matera to Venice. The cry of the students of Fridays for future, the commitments set out in the 2030 Strategic Agenda and the special report presented to the UN last August on climate change, desertification and earth degradation require us, as stated in Article 1 of the decree itself, to adopt a coherent national strategic programme, but also courageous and forward-looking, that respond to that intergenerational responsibility that our children have called us from the squares. It would, however, have been appropriate, Minister, since European directives have been fully implemented and the Court of Justice has been closed, to use the instrument which is probably more precisely dictated by Law No 234 of 2012, namely European law, and not a decree-law (the numerous amendments tabled testify and confirm this). Of particular importance are the infringement procedures in relation to Directive 2008/50/EC, as has been pointed out, for having exceeded in some areas the thresholds for nitrogen dioxide and fine dust, in particular in the Padano basin and in the metropolitan cities, but also for infringements related to polluted sites and illegal landfills to be regularised. They are important infringements that weigh, not only for the cost on the state coffers (million euros), but also on the quality of life of our territories: emissions into the atmosphere, waste, landfills, waste water treatment, hydrogeological failure, mobility. These are matters, Minister, often of shared competence, shared between different institutional and governmental levels, national, regional, local, between environmental protection and territorial government; overlaps that often do not add interventions, but on the contrary slow them down due to lack of clarity. I believe that much would have helped us to reform Article 117 of the Constitution in order to simplify and make more efficient the decision-making and governance system, especially in the face of such emergencies, but ours does not seem to be a normal country and the use of the structure of the single extraordinary commissioner and the substitute powers to overcome infringement procedures and the implementation of the judgments of the Court of Justice testifies to this. I am convinced, also as a former mayor, of how much it is necessary to involve and to make responsible the different levels of government, as stated in Article 1 of the decree, but assigning to the administrations involved objective values to be pursued specific and determined, giving also times to respect. Not only a national programme, but urban agendas and convergent regional plans to be integrated into the many different resources that are already available, between the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund, national and European resources. Green investments that we believe should come out of the constraints of the Stability Pact, at least in this time of ecological transition, a request, Minister, that we deliver to you for you to bring it to the European tables. An investment for the future, therefore, but also funds already allocated, as we said, to be unblocked immediately, from the hydrogeological disruption to the waste cycle for a actually circular economy, to sustainable mobility for public services with zero emissions, also with preferential lanes, as well as reforestation (as provided for in Article 4), refunctionalization of buildings and prohibition of consumption of new territory, crucial issue. Our cities are the place where development and growth and therefore environmental risk are determined and concentrated. For this reason, we no longer believe that a recovery plan and a home plan for the outskirts can be postponed, in the knowledge that sustainability issues will always have to be accompanied by those on territorial disparities and social inequalities. In addition, it will be essential from the point of view of effectiveness - as has been mentioned by my colleague - to involve the public, citizens, associations, local communities both in the design phase and in the implementation of interventions, as is also hoped for by European legislation. In the same direction, however, the role of companies, private companies that will have to converge in this way, and I address my colleague of the Forza Italia Group: companies that already have a programme for environmental and social sustainability already achieve better productivity, more value and therefore more employment and income, so climate choice is a choice for work and for the economy and not against the economy. President, today thinking about sustainability means thinking about the economic recovery of the country. The resources are partly there, and our proposal is to unlock them immediately for railways, for alternative mobility, to regenerate our outskirts. It is necessary to reconstitute immediately the Mission Unit for the hydrogeological failure and for the safety of our territory. In fact, there is no longer time to save our cities, a heritage of humanity, of which we are guardians, to save not only the Planet, but our very survival. In conclusion, our country is an extraordinary one - we have often repeated it in this House - of a unique beauty, but it is at the same time a very fragile country, and the serious crisis of the Ilva story tells us this. It is time to give value units in terms that still seem distant and [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Rojc]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u40	Mr President, I think that this is an important decree-law, a first step certainly, but a substantial step. With this measure, in fact, there is a path that the current Government has put at the center of its action. The fight against climate change, the environmental transition of the economy, sustainable development are priorities for this Government, its founding reason, the most obvious choice of discontinuity with the past. With this decree-law, and the many rules contained in the draft budget law - to which I shall return - on this very point we give concreteness to our commitment. We must respond to a real situation; to the effects of pollution, climate change, hydrogeological failure; we owe it to the boys and girls who ask for the future, who ask us to defend the Planet, who ask us to change everything. We need to take the issue of sustainability, sustainable development as a central issue, as a necessary and unavoidable compatibility: environmental, social and economic sustainability. Choosing, as we do today, thanks to the amendment we have tabled, to transform - from 1 January 2021 - the CIPE into an interministerial committee for economic planning and sustainable development is important: it is a concrete choice repeatedly urged by the Italian Alliance for Sustainable Development, which commits the public and institutions to making choices that must meet the sustainability criteria. It is an important transformation that we are proud of, and I believe this Parliament should be proud of. In this decree-law there are also many initiatives, many proposals for cities and metropolitan areas, to help the most critical areas of this country from the point of view of pollution. I am thinking of the extent to which Euro 3 cars and Euro 2 motorcycles are broken down, of the good mobility to move mobility from cars and motorbikes to public transport and individual shared mobility (an important standard and fundamental experimentation) to the allocation of 20 million per budget for preferential lanes to give more speed to public transport and investment in sustainable school transport: all important rules that can also change the face and mobility of entire cities to promote the use of public transport, to encourage the use of less polluting means, to encourage lifestyles and mobility habits other than those we still know in too many cities. But there's more to the cities. There are 15 million euros to increase urban greenery and restore some areas: raising trees serves to give more oxygen, but also to intervene concretely to prevent hydrogeological failure. There are also other rules; I do not take them all back, but I would like to insist on some points which I believe have not been understood (unless I have understood them). I think, for example, that the rule on the commissioner structure for the reclamation of illegal landfills is important, because it defines a structure that serves, especially the municipalities. How many times - I ask all Members - have mayors come to us who have found themselves cleaning up an area where there has been an abusive landfill and have been left without means and without the capacity to do so? This is a concrete instrument, which goes in the direction of helping the municipalities and mayors, in order to make available to cities, countries and territories entire areas, which had been transformed into unfair landfills and which remain unworkable because there are no reclamations. This structure goes in this direction and I believe it is important and must be valued: it cannot be sold as a mere bureaucratic intervention in order to comply with European regulations and avoid infringement procedures. This is a rule which I think is important and which goes in the direction in which the municipalities have often asked us to go. There are also measures on transparency: it is right to construct information electronically, to collect all the data on pollution and to give citizens, municipalities and operators the sense of what the situation is, to make them understand whether the measures that are put in place from time to time are useful or not, if they have been used. I therefore think that, in this measure, there are rules that can really improve our cities and reduce pollution. They are not bureaucratic or trivial measures, but they can really change behavior and help solve the real problems that are present in our territories, such as illegal landfills. This is certainly a first step, but I would like to remind the House that we all know the second step, because the budgetary manoeuvre has been deposited. The €22.5 billion budgeted, from now to 2034, to promote the circular economy, decarbonisation, reduction of emissions and energy saving are an important and innovative fact, they are a trademark that the Government has chosen to give itself - I repeat - in discontinuity with the past. The rules for the green new deal, public investment in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which are contained in the economic maneuver, are important rules, which mark and define a trademark. The government is actually saying one thing: we know that politics has to do and that it really needs to change, if we want to answer their question of the future and not just applaud the kids of Fridays for future. We have a responsibility: they tell us all the time. We have a responsibility to them, to the children of today and to future generations. I think that even with measures such as the one we are discussing or such as those contained in the budget law we can begin to do, knowing that there is no more time and that now is the time to act. These are concrete measures and therefore I think that the decree-law in question is a useful first step, important and in discontinuity with the past. [[Applause from the PD Group, Senator L'Abbate and from the benches of the Government. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u41	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u42	Mr President, Minister, today, in conjunction with the beginning of the debate on the bill for converting the decree-law, for a coincidence, but highly symbolic in my opinion, an exhibition of prototypes of hydrogen cars and a kind of laboratory has been set up outside the Senate buildings to demonstrate to the citizens how this gas is produced. In the afternoon there will also be an important conference on energy transition and renewable hydrogen. In our country there can really be a decisive turning point in 2020: there are energies, there are public and above all private drives and there is know-how. This is an incentive for us, political decision-makers, to take the necessary decisions. We come to the text of the decree-law. As some colleagues have said, last but not least Senator Mirabelli (and I fully agree) and as you know, Minister, we believe that this is a first step within a horizon that the current majority is helping to define. As I said on the occasion of the explanation of vote on confidence at the time of its establishment, I believe that this is the real mission of this Government. You will have listened to the speeches that have been made today: this is the real question that really holds us together and is a glue to this majority. We must know, however, that it is not a gala lunch, but a mission that involves decisions, which can sometimes be difficult, complicated. First of all, we must fully assume our responsibilities, because there is no more time. What else do we have to wait for? You, Minister, like many of us, are perfectly up to date on the data that is constantly being published. Our country is a kind of platform in one of the most affected areas of climate change, the Mediterranean area. For a long time we thought that the problems arising from climate change were elsewhere, perhaps in the islands of the Maldives that sink, and we continued to ignore that the heart - unfortunately hot - was right here, in the Mediterranean area, with everything that it produces. And we're seeing it. We cannot continue not to realize how much extreme events have increased in recent years in our country, that because of its structure, its orographic and geographical conformation, it is fragile, also because of a series of absolutely wrong interventions that we have done on our territory. In these hours we continue to monitor what is happening in Venice; for the beauty of its great heritage we have been on all the front pages of the newspapers, but what happened in Venice, Matera or in the Roman coast and which happens continuously is not random. The last report presented yesterday by Legambiente shows, for example, how extreme events in our country have increased in an incredible way in recent years. Even, at the end of 2019 it turns out that almost 70 percent of extreme events have increased compared to last year. That means there's a very powerful acceleration. The increase in temperature, particularly in the Mediterranean area and therefore by us, who are a platform within the Mediterranean, has also been higher. Obviously, this measure does not resolve, but I repeat, it is a first step. However, it contains an important measure, which we are pressing for and on which we will have to go back to work, in order to fill it with content. Article 1 provides for the approval of a National Strategic Programme, in due course. To be honest, Minister, I think that coordination is necessary, not only at your Ministry but also at the Presidency of the Council, of all the competences of public policies. Here too, the Commission's work and the modification of the definition of CIPE in the Interministerial Committee for Sustainable Development is not a trivial issue, but a matter of substance towards sustainable development. We have a need, which is fundamental to me: the Strategic Plan means that we must not only monitor, but also coordinate policies and have the ability to decide to act and use resources. We need to talk and make choices; I still remember that transition is not a gala lunch, but a necessity. Whenever there is a need, as we know, decisions must also be taken that are not simple. The important thing is that we call to this mission all the social actors and economic categories, demonstrating that if we do not accelerate the transition, if we do not stop the increase in temperature and we do not put in place serious operations from the point of view of mitigation and adaptation, the economic consequences, even for operators, will be tremendous, just as the consequences on the weakest sections of the population will be. It is something that we are seeing everywhere; the fight against climate change is the biggest operation in defense of the people who are most in difficulty, of the poorest people, of the least well-off, because the impact on them begins to be devastating. A number of operations are carried out in the measure, including the question of pollution with regard to large cities. Data show that the impact of climate change on metropolitan areas is even stronger. It is a phenomenon that affects the whole world, but in particular Italy: they are already in themselves islands of heat. There is then a combination of this factor and the pollution problems that we have. The decree-law addresses the issue; someone will say that they are small things, which I think, however, very important. Let us think of Article 2, which concerns the experimental programme for good mobility or work, to which I shall return, which is done on the budget law. There is also another intervention that is in some way mitigation but helps us to intervene in part also on hydrogeological risk: the experimental programme for reforestation is very important and it intervenes on metropolitan areas and in the work of the Commission it has also proposed to put in place good practices for the renaturalization of the whole water system of the areas at risk. We must also address in the Senate Environment Commission a major issue for our country, which concerns the measure of land use stop, one of the fundamental measures; we have so many on the table and they must be speeded up. We have put in place the budget law, and the work of the Senate and the House will have to help implement it, the green new deal, which cannot be just a slogan. We have put resources in place and improvements need to be made. There are rules that may seem hostile, such as environmental taxation, but if well managed it becomes an important tool to speed up the conversion of the production process and change consumption. It is an effort that we begin; a step that we must implement. The important thing is the coordination of our policies and understand well what we do, without thinking that intervention can be enough: there can also be counterproductive interventions. The important thing is that there is the ability to realize that today we can no longer wait. The future of the country and the future of the new generations is at stake. We have a responsibility to future generations, to young people who come to the streets. We cannot remember this only when they come to visit us or do the great demonstrations, but we must fully assume our responsibility. With the decree-law before us, and with the improvement work done in the Commission, a first step has been taken in the right direction. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u43	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Dante Alighieri, of Bellona in the province of Caserta, and the students of the Faculty of Law of the University of Florence, who are attending our work from the second order of tribune. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u44	Mr President, today I am particularly pleased because yesterday in the Commission - it had never happened - in the middle of the debate we were told to shut up by a colleague of the 5 Stars; it was obviously annoying what we said. If we have come to this, we will probably need to use a little more reason and a little less emotional because here we have a different responsibility from those who manifest, perhaps even with good intentions. If we have not made a preliminary question on this act, it is because we believe that it is not an attack on the Constitution, but on intelligence and common sense. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is because we cannot, just in June of this year, shout at the four winds that it is necessary to declare the state of climate emergency, as stated, for example, the PD motion (I went to see the motions and read all the speeches) and then present an act that does not have the seeds of change but the flu bacilli of an ideological reasoning that, once again, we have heard in this House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of the two, as Mr Martelli recalled: or the emergency is really there, and it is certainly not a decree-law of eight articles that solves it, or, perhaps, this is not the approach. Mr Mirabelli told us earlier that this argument is even the cause of this government. If you're here to solve the climate problem, and that's the result you bring us, I'd say you might as well go home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this because we cannot call the new deal here, as Mr Taricco did, uncomfortableing the policies perhaps of the largest President of the United States of America who had an economic reach which, brought back to this day, would have a dimension of billions and billions, and then do a bit like that child who, accompanied by the dad, goes to the beach to the sea, rents the pedal boat and then, when he returns, tells his friends that he has made a trip in the transatlantic, because the size of the resources that have been allocated with the decree to our examination, in proportion, is more or less that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Well, we tried to do what you asked us to do, that is to contribute constructively to improving - and it was not difficult - the decree in our examination and we did so by presenting not instrumental amendments but studied, in-depth amendments. What has happened has been described - and I thank you - by Mr Faggi: many of our amendments which have been defended with passion by our colleagues in the Budget Commission - and I would like to thank my colleague Mr Tosato - have been declared impervious under Article 81 (I quote Article 81 of the Constitution: sometimes we forget it when we pull it out) not because they provided for costs but because the majority, who had the numbers to reject the proposals on the subject, perhaps uncomfortable or on which perhaps there was no perfect agreement between the two political forces that constitute it, preferred to hide for shame behind technical reasons. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what happened to amendment 4.0.35 (text 2) - I shall speak to the end of this matter - which concerns dredgings and the management of biomass in the laminar lakes, in particular Lake Trasimeno, on which there is an agreement in principle, even if it cannot be said. It is necessary, then, to invent non-existent costs, even if much of the content of that amendment has already received a unanimous vote in the House in another measure, because one cannot disturb those who see it in a different ideological way. Well, we didn't stop in front of it either. We made an appeal to the government, saying we were available. We asked to consider the possibility, since there were still times, of amendments of the Government that would respond to the dramatic situation that Venice is experiencing, but that are also living other areas of Italy, from Matera to Salento, and that certainly have a direct affinity with this decree and with the problem of climate. We told the government to intervene, because it's definitely the fastest carrier. There is necessity and urgency and the argument is compatible. Well, there has been a reply in the Commission: we will consider whether the Government can table amendments to this effect. After all, we have already spoken. That is true, some provisions have already been adopted. It is true that the government has reflected, but it has reflected and produced, not amendments on the emergency in Venice or in other parts of the country, but on the green helmets and the awards Italian City Green Capital (which, for Christ's sake, is a beautiful idea!). Surely these were not the priorities we expected, especially if one of these government amendments, to the damage suffered by Taranto, in general and in particular for the Ilva issue, adds the mockery. Do you know, in fact, the three million envisaged by the Government's amendment to reward the green Italian capital from where they came from? They come from the funds that should be allocated to the reclamation of polluted areas and to interventions in areas that are absolutely more difficult than the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's like doing the Robin Hood backwards! Take resources that should be used in particularly sensitive, disadvantaged areas to reward other cities. Welcome. That's all I need. Maybe some luckier cities, ruled by more far-sighted administrators, and that's right, that invested in the environment. On this issue too, our proposal was to involve all the municipalities. Why only the provincial capitals? Why exclude the more than 7,600 Italian municipalities that have less than fifty thousand inhabitants? If the prize wants to be set up (and, of course, we have indicated other covers), let's open it to all the municipalities, even the small ones. Why only one capital? But above all, we must intervene. That was our proposal. We are going to make better proposals because this is the responsibility of a political force, which is already a majority in the country and which is waiting only to be able to be back in this House when you finally send us to vote: because so much will happen. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, we asked to add another premium: Green capital of Italy city to save. And what first city to save, in our country, at this moment, if not Taranto, going to identify additional resources and previewing that a prize of this type can be reserved for cities that, in their territory, have sites of national interest? I am referring to cities that must be supported by the State in order to be able to compete with the others. This should be done by a government that fills its mouth with the importance of the environment and supports local communities, administrations and regions. We all get to a basic level, then maybe we reward the best, but we don't leave anyone behind. To identify a prize of this kind, excluding in fact the cities that suffer most in our country, we believe it is unfair. I don't go too far, but I'm just going to give a couple more examples, since I've also spoken of common sense. It is a good thing to contribute to the opening of shops that can sell bulky products, but to have the claim to bind an Italian reality, made up of small centres, to shops that sell only this, seems to us a contradiction. But did you do the math? But how do you think that an economic activity, with all the taxes you've loaded on it, can be open selling only bulk detergents? Please. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars made an invitation and said that they have opened the way and that others will follow the example. Well, we stand to follow that example, doing exactly the opposite, because this is not the way to solve environmental problems and raise a country. That road, with the first step, we'll do it when we get back to the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u45	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u46	Mr President, Minister (thank you for your presence), representatives of the Government, we have moved from before the Italians to the Italians are first. Yes, we are the first in Europe to die prematurely because of thin dust. We are among the first in European infringements in terms of pollution in our cities, landfills and sewage treatment and waste water. We're the first. We have not even complied with many European directives that protect the environment. In short, we are in a very difficult situation: we pay and we die. But we must do it quickly, we all agree on this; we must do it quickly because it is late, and not just because Greta reminds us of it. A girl my age today, in 1992, when she was only 12 years old, told the United Nations that she wanted someone to take care of her future. His name was Suzuki Severn, if you remember, and he stopped the world for a few minutes; it was Greta ante litteram. Today he is my age and no one has taken care of his future in these twenty-seven years. We have now replaced ourselves and the Greta of the past are also in Parliament. Having said that, said it is late, we cannot do everything and do it now, it is clear, but we can do a lot. We are not just dealing, thanks to the initiative of Minister Costa, with this decree-law, expression of an urgency in the matter of climate; it is in fact included in a systemic vision. There are 11 billion for the hydrogeological failure, there are more than 10 billion in maneuvering for the green new deal, that is for this new pact between the citizens and the environment; from the MISE there is the transition 4.0, therefore other resources for the environmental sustainability. This is not just a measure, but a systemic vision. We have all said that this decree-law is a first step, while on the other hand they say that it is little. Who criticizes this little? Whoever has done even less or nothing. Who criticizes this first step in the right direction? Who does that? Those who have removed the limits to non-methane hydrocarbons, and this certainly does not improve the air we breathe. Who's criticizing? Anyone who wants incinerators, who certainly doesn't put pure oxygen in the air. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who is criticizing this significant step of ours? Whoever even removed - and with an amendment wanted to reintegrate it into the climate decree - environmental education, that is, civic education. With the Gelmini reform the time of history was taken off so that we could talk about civic education and now, with an amendment, you wanted to reinsert it? Who criticizes this climate decree? Who in the Regions governs by authorizing plants that continue to pollute the air. So, Mr President, I will not extend, because the speech of those who are taking care of our climate, of our environment, of what we breathe is really elementary: nothing had been done, on the contrary, measures had been taken that made air quality and our climate worse. And the facts prove it. We, on the other hand, are doing something, a set of measures. We are talking about climate decree, but in fact the heading of the measure refers to urgent measures to comply with the obligations of a 2008 directive, so there is urgency because there have been shortcomings in the past. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Speaking of climate decree we don't want to be fashionable, but give a prospective and hopeful vision of the future, instead of remembering shortcomings since 2008. So instead of criticizing what's wrong, we're saying what we're going to do. In my opinion, people will forgive us for making mistakes, but not for lying to you, and I am sure that we are not lying, as the facts and measures in which we strongly believe show. This is the first time you've really been doing something about the environment. I don't tell Greta, but Suzuki was 12 as old as I was in 1992. Now we're here and we're starting [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u47	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u49	What are you going to do about it? Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you only have the floor if it's really on the order of business. Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, I am speaking literally on the order of business. The order of business includes the right of Members to present acts of inspection union and, in conjunction with yesterday's sitting, I have tabled a question which I do not see published in the Annex to yesterday's Minutes (as you know, the questions have an iter). The inspection union act concerns the very current case of former Minister Thirty, so I would like to know why it has not been published.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u50	[[Protests from the M5S Group.]] I would like it to be published and I would urge my fellow Members not to scream because thirty is worth zero today.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u51	Senator Gasparri, as always your request will be communicated to the Presidency. I suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.57 p.m. and resumed at 16.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u52	The Conference of the Leaders has established that in the session of tomorrow, which will begin at 9 a.m., at the end of the decree-climate law, motions on initiatives in favor of Venice will be discussed in the light of recent alluvial events. Each group will have fifteen minutes, including illustration, discussion and explanation of vote. This except for changes that should occur and that we will inform you.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u55	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but I think of the whole House, I would like to remind you that today is 20 November and that exactly a year ago our compatriot Silvia Romano, who has not yet been found, disappeared (or was kidnapped, we do not know). We know that the Farnesina and the family have asked for total restraint and we respect their will. We hope, however, that he will return to Italy as soon as possible. [[Applause.]] I believe that after a year it is right to resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u56	You forewarned me the reason for your speech and I gladly gave you the floor, precisely because the whole House joined your hope. I briefly suspend the work, waiting for President Alberti Casellati to arrive. (The sitting was suspended at 16.05 a.m. and resumed at 16.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u57	Let's resume our work. I continue to preside, contrary to what is anticipated. We resume the examination of the bill no. 1547, of conversion into law of Decree-Law no. 111 of 14 October 2019. I call the rapporteur, Senator L'Abbate. Where is the rapporteur? Senator L'Abbate is missing. Is the President of the Commission here? The government is missing, too. Today it does not seem to me that you are working particularly well, Government and Commission. The other senators are all here at your disposal. I don't think that's a good example, honestly. [[Applause from the FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] The rapporteur has arrived. Please, Senator L'Abbate, if you like, you can do the replica. You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. The government is missing! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's not here? They told me he was here. That's not true. The government representative is here and you can see him. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u58	President, I would ask for some time, because we need to review some of the assessments. If it is possible, then, we ask for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u59	Explain to me well, Senator, why it doesn't mean much, we need to review some of the evaluations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u60	ABBATE, rapporteur. We have a little satisfied the latest arrivals, both of the majority and of the minority, with agendas and the dossier has just arrived. We're reevaluating. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Ten minutes. ABBATE, rapporteur. Thirty minutes can you give it to me, ma'am? That is why I was not in the Chamber. [[Comments from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u61	Calm and cold blood, this is a decision for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u63	Senator Romeo wants to speak, as we will grant it to you, if in the meantime you want to start going, you can also go.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u64	Please, I call you, Senator Romeo. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). President. - The next item is the order of business. We wanted to understand, on the timetable that we discussed at the Conference of Leaders and that we do not agree unanimously, when we can make any proposals for amendments. We thought we'd start with the calendar right away. TARICCO (PD). Already done.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u65	We talked about the calendar before, you may not have been in the Chamber. Mr Senator, first I read the results: the Conference of the Leaders decided that at tomorrow's sitting, which will begin at 9 a.m., at the end of the decree-climate law, motions on initiatives in favour of Venice will be discussed in the light of recent alluvial events. Each group will have fifteen minutes including illustration, discussion and explanations of vote. At the end of this reading no one asked me anything. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I got here, they told me that you announced this and you suspended the session. PRESIDENT. - The debate is So let's do one thing: let's give the Commission 20 minutes and then we'll talk about it. (The sitting was suspended at 16.12 a.m. and resumed at 16.32 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u66	Senator Romeo, when I read the calendar again, called for an assessment of it because - I understand - it was approved by a majority by the Conference of Leaders. Please, Senator Romeo, you have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u67	Mr President, as announced at the Conference of Leaders, we agree that tomorrow's timetable is organized as the Presidency has said very well, but we did not vote for it, because we do not agree with the timetable for the coming weeks. We asked that next week - which will certainly be devoted to the work of the Budget Commission - while the 5th Commission carries out its work, the President of the Count Council may come to the Chamber and report on both the Ilva case and the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). These are two fundamental issues and Ilva is not the first time that we are calling for you to come to this House soon. We have been told that the ESM will come to the House on 10 December because it is provided by law that it will arrive before the European Council and that Ilva could arrive before Christmas. On both issues we think it is too late, because matters are urgent now and so everything needs to be discussed now. It is indisputable: there are changes and changes at European level and there is the theme of Ilva which is central. A President who has always said - I repeat this in this House for the tenth time - that he was always ready to come to Parliament to show the difficulties or to respond to everything, has so far essentially hidden himself. We're asking you to come next week. This is our proposal to amend the timetable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u70	BERNINI (FI-BP). Mr President, I wish to speak in the same direction. You know that, because you were present at the Conference of Leaders: we have been asking incessantly for three weeks - we do not resign and hope for an active, active and possibly rapid repentance - for the President of the Council to come to this House and tell us what is going on with the former Ilva. The situation is getting worse and worse; unfortunately a short political-judicial circuit has started and we do not see the end of it. The positions of the different members of the Government do not reassure us, also because the different members of the Government have different positions. All that has been said and taking into account the great willingness which the President-in-Office of the Council has already expressed in February this year (therefore nine months ago) to be present at least once every fifteen days here in this House, where important matters need to be discussed, we expect that after nine months of waiting it will come, whether for a question time or, as we ask, for important communications. Colleagues, on 10 December it is too late to discuss the fund saves States or Ilva: but do you remember that the time programme for the blast furnace 2 has already started? All this makes it unnecessary, not useful, but essential for the President of the Council to be present in this House next week. While the Commissions are debating the budget law, the President of the Council must come here to discuss basically save States and Ilva. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u73	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we have listened to what the Minister for Relations with Parliament told us at the Conference of the Leaders. It has been recalled that his proposal is to be able to listen to President Conte on the determinations of the Government with respect to the fund saves States and the former Ilva only on 10 December: it is too, too late. It is really too late because the issues raised, especially the last one in order of time (I refer to the fund saves States), require an immediate response. Mr President, I would remind my colleagues in this House that we wrote to President Alberti Casellati on Monday so that he could be an interpreter, at the Conference of the Leaders, with the Government of our request to have from the President of the Council and not from any Minister, whom we respect, certain answers to what is happening. Something important, serious and dangerous is happening and we do not say so about Brothers of Italy: the director of the Bank of Italy said so. This is also said this afternoon by the president of the Italian Banking Association, declaring himself totally unaware of what is deciding or seems to have already decided the Government. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, he is also the political leader of the main party present in this House, at least in terms of parliamentary representation, namely the 5 Star Movement, that of the so-called State Saving Fund - which we fear is rather a State Killing Fund - is a fundamental issue for the defence of the country's sovereignty. We have already been burned abundantly by the superficiality with which in recent years the political forces, especially by majority, have agreed to European treaties that we have then paid in the form of a crisis of the banking system, failures of credit institutions and payment by tens of thousands of savers who have often carried them on the pavement, with the consequence that the State had to intervene again, with public funds, in an attempt to restore them. I would like us to be aware that this is a fundamental and central issue for Parliament and for the future of Italy, which cannot be affected. We want to intervene so that Parliament is not in a position, as has happened in the past, to take or to leave, to stand behind the wall in the face of the blackmail for which it is Europe that wants it, the European Commission, the Eurogroup or who knows who else. Colleagues, ours is therefore not an instrumental, partisan or partisan request; it is the request of a Group that feels to interpret the fear of the entire system Country to be swept away by agreements that risk to affect the stability of the country system, of the families, of the enterprises and of our banks. Mr Gualtieri's hearing before the Joint Commissions cannot be sufficient on a matter of this magnitude. The President-in-Office of the Council, who must take charge of the clarification which the House, or at least part of it, is asking for, must intervene personally. We therefore reiterate the request that the President-in-Office of the Council, as a matter of urgency next week, come to this House to report on what he has decided or has not decided and what decisions have been sketched out or already taken in the Eurogroup on the part of Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u74	Colleagues, there is therefore the same proposal made by three group leaders that the President of the Council should come and report to the Senate Chamber on the day he wishes, as Senator Ciriani correctly stated.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u77	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I rise on the proposal to amend the timetable. I would like this to be properly reported, also with regard to what you have just told the House, so that, on the basis of the last proposal put forward by Senator Ciriani, the President of the Council will decide on a day to speak at the request of this House. In fact, at the Conference of the Leaders we have already said that the President-in-Office of the Council... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. A day of next week. Mr Perilli (M5S). Then you must add it, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But you've all heard it, there's been three surgeries. What do we do, we're in the deaf? Mr Perilli (M5S). You have summarized it differently for the House and someone may not have heard it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Perilli. Mr Perilli (M5S). In any case, Mr President, this gives me the opportunity to speak on what has been said, because it seems that the President of the Council has not given his willingness. The President-in-Office of the Council, as provided for in a resolution voted on in June 2019 after collecting the proposals in the European Parliament, has given the willingness to come and report to the House before any other initiative, only that this will not happen in the way, at the exact time and on the exact day when he asks for the opposition, but that cannot automatically mean anything else. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's clear. Mr Perilli (M5S). It is therefore important to bring this matter back, both to the House and to the outside, as is really the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u78	Thank you for your speech, Senator Perilli. Moreover, it seems clear to me from the speeches made by previous speakers that the proposal to amend the timetable is in keeping with the way and at the time of the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council. In view of the President-in-Office's willingness to come to the Chamber on 10 December, three opposition groups have called for the opportunity to come next week on a day that he will be able to choose. This is the summary of the story. The difference, which is not politically marginal, lies in the day it comes. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly on the request for the President of the Council to intervene in the Senate next week. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u79	I greet the students of the Institutes of Higher Education "Canudo-Marone" and "Galileo Galilei" of Gioia del Colle, in the Province of Bari, who have come to visit us from a beautiful land, such as Puglia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u80	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u81	Mr President, in 2018 in our country the legal limits of PM10 (particles and fine dusts) and NO2 (Nitrous dioxide) were continually exceeded. This happened in many provincial capitals, including Brescia, Lodi and Monza, all the cities belonging to the area of the Po Valley, but not only these. The main sources of emissions are traffic, domestic heating and industrial emissions. On this point it should be recalled that the European Union has opened two infringement procedures against Italy, No 2147 of 2014 and No 2043 of 2015, for failure to comply with our country's obligations under Directive 2008/50 of the European Community, relating to the quality of the environment and for cleaner air in Europe. We know that in some areas the limit values for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and fine dust (PM10) have been exceeded and that several deaths have occurred, including of children, as has been reported recently in all newspapers. For this reason, the climate decree is an emergency from the point of view of air quality, for the health of Italian citizens, and also climate. In order to improve air quality, therefore, we have included measures that allow us to act locally, but at the same time allow us to improve the problem of global warming. This decree-law provides, in fact, that within 90 days of its approval, the national strategic programme to combat climate change will be launched in order to ensure the correct and full implementation of European and national legislation on combating climate change. The climate decree, therefore, in Article 2, on the reduction of polluting and climate-altering emissions, reduces climate-altering emissions in the municipalities affected by the above-mentioned infringement procedures and at the same time improves air quality with measures to encourage sustainable mobility in metropolitan areas. There is talk of good mobility that finances the purchase of subscriptions to local and regional public transport, or the use of shared mobility services for individual use and also of bicycles with pedal assistance, and also of projects for the creation, extension, modernisation and setting up of preferential lanes for local public transport. The Fund has a total budget of EUR 255 million, broken down for the years 2019 to 2024. The voucher can also be used for the purchase of people living with subscriptions to local and regional public transport, as well as bicycles, for the next three years. For the financing of these projects and also for the creation, extension and modernisation of the preferential lanes for local public transport, the fund provides for a cost of EUR 20 million for each of the years 2020 to 2021, with a view to creating a virtuous circuit, aimed at spreading zero waste philosophy and understanding the increasingly urgent need to reduce waste produced, especially plastic waste. In this respect, we have the incentive measure provided for in Article 7, which recognises, experimentally, a non-refundable contribution to neighbourhood or medium-sized businesses, to encourage the sale of detergents or bulk or plug-in foodstuffs. A maximum contribution of EUR 5,000 is foreseen. On the other hand, the overall limit is EUR 20 million for 2010 and 2021. In addition, the container offered by the operator must not be disposable. It will also be possible to bring from home a container that is not disposable but that is compostable or reused. Measures must therefore be taken to encourage socially responsible steps, such as that provided for in Article 7, by producers and consumers. Technological development and research must be promoted for a more effective ecological transition and for the entire production system to be directed towards a circular economy. Ideal starting point could be any useful initiative for decarbonisation of the economy that in any case guarantees the security of the country's energy system, setting the European Union's long-term strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions as an objective. All this will be done because this is a first step and it had to be done now because there was an urgency and it had to close immediately. We have two other very important measures that are coming. This first measure, in fact, must necessarily be accompanied by a number of initiatives capable of promoting the shift of the energy mix, in order to move from fossil energy sources to renewable sources and from the linear economy to the circular economy. You will surely find all this in our draft budget law and in the environmental connection. With the climate decree, in conclusion, we started what we call the green new deal. A path taken by this Government and by all the majority that, with the president of the Council Giuseppe Conte and the minister of the environment Sergio Costa, are carrying out in terms of program. Hence the climate decree, which they strongly wanted to include positive and concrete initiatives, urgent interventions and measures in some areas considered extremely vulnerable to climate change and which aim to directly involve citizens in a radical change of cultural paradigm. Further investments will come, precisely, with the economic maneuver and with the environmental connection, as I have just said. This is an obvious change of pace in this government. Climate change is combated by a systemic approach, from multiple fronts and targeted actions, step by step. This measure is the beginning of a sustainability path. I'm not just talking about environmental sustainability. Here I can tell you about the social and economic, which everyone knows, and the cultural. There is another kind of sustainability, which here, in this House, I would like to make. Let's talk about political sustainability. Why am I telling you this? Because, when it comes to the environment, the environment is transversal and all parties must put aside what can be a slight ideological difference in order to go together to solve the problems of our territory and our common home. A territory that will belong, one day, to our children. The beginning of a path of sustainability is therefore a component capable of integrating the protection of the environment among the fundamental principles of our constitutional system and, above all, in the depths of citizens' consciences, for a cultural revolution, even before economic, that can lead us towards a model of production and sustainable life. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u82	I call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u83	Mr President, I have taken a few notes, listening to all the speeches in general debate, and I would like to reply briefly, on a point of order, to the most substantial points that have been made during this debate. Some replies will overlap, in the sense that some interveners have made considerations that have overlapped. So the answer will be unique, and maybe I'll call them back from time to time. I shall proceed in the chronological order of the speeches. Senator Ferrazzi, I wanted you to see a few things. In my opinion, when we talk about climate and call for science and scientists, everything must be brought back to strict respect for what is in scientific literature. We cannot quote science and then insert what we want. This as a general rule. The senator pointed out, with regard to the situation in Venice, that this is a problem generated by the conjunction of various factors, including that of a sizigial tide due to the combination of the attraction of the sun and the moon with the addition of other meteorological factors. Unfortunately, it is only a meteorological factor, i.e. the isolation of a low pressure area with scirocco winds. Not that this is important, but what is important to replicate is that, although it is true that it is a cyclical event, to all those who have said, that one must have a perspective and that this decree-law has a long-term perspective, to no one it has come to mind to say that that of Venice is a structural problem. As the level of the sea rises, any type of mobile bulkhead will have to be kept higher and higher and, therefore, the big problem will be created that the lagoon will no longer have a replacement with the open sea, will tend to become an ecosystem in anoxia and will be a disaster. Well, a long-term measure must look at this. He must not think of a mobile barrier to be raised and lowered to need, because, at some point, having to keep it up, the problem will become bigger. If we want to talk about climate - some people have talked about funding and appropriations in 2034 - we have to raise this problem now. Again with regard to the appropriations, 10 billion were quoted from both Senator Ferrazzi and Senator Floridia, saying - textual words - that in this measure 10 billion are put on the field, which then is 8.8. But it should be said that the billions initially were 4.9 according to the budget law of last year; therefore this government only integrated the posts and integrated them over a time span that reaches 2034, while the previous government had done it in 2033. But the real stakes are those for 2020, because already in this decree we have seen constantly definance interventions in favour of others; so any post in 2029 is written on the sand and the tide will take it away. There is nothing for 2020; there was something for 2021 (250 million, now 350 million). So the reality is that this government is putting 100 million in the field for the interventions on this green new deal, which I would call green new dream (if not green new nightmare), for the year 2021. This measure puts 100 million in place for 2020 (75, plus 15, plus 10). These should be compared - as has been said in other interventions on the energy transition to renewable sources - with the fact that the question of capacity market, i.e. for the financing of reserve capacity by turbogas plants, is expected to be between 700 and 900 million per year. So for a supposed transition you spend 100 million, while for the capacity market you spend between seven and nine times as much; we are almost at an order of magnitude. Senator Ferrazzi (and not only him) has always rightly spoken of the importance of the concept of new arboreal plants. I did a research to see what the average cost of planting a hectare is. Since the critical situation concerns the Po Valley, it is correct to consider the average plant cost for the Po Valley and I found a value of 7,500 euros per hectare. So with $15 million, you make $2,000 acres. We can estimate at a rate, based on the population density of a poplar grove (200 trees per hectare), which is 4 million. This, since it has been invoked as an important intervention in relation to CO2 mitigation, is to be compared with the national data on CO2 emissions, which actually only takes into account local emissions. Taking some account of Italy's annual emissions for 2017 were 620 million tons; for their mitigation in a thirty-year arc (cormometric tables to the hand), for trees that can reach 2 tons of mass over thirty years, they need something like 360 million trees. So in order to fight over thirty years the one-year emissions would take 360 million trees a year and maybe 4 million trees are planted; this is the extent of the intervention. But let's move on. As far as Senator Quarto is concerned, I have already said about the case of Venice; so I am not talking about it again. He rightly mentioned, once again, the concept of reducing climate emissions, which - let us remember - amounts to 35 billion tonnes. It is certainly not with a 15 million forest plan that we can interfere with a 35 billion tonne process. The calculations say that with a population density such as the one I mentioned earlier and with fastest growing trees, it takes at least 12 million square kilometers, i.e. 1.2 billion hectares (just to have a proportion of what we are going to do). The Senator Fourthly he also said that planet Earth has a climate emergency problem. It should be pointed out here that the planet Earth does not have it; at most we have it. Just for the record, I would like to remind you that the greatest climate change has been caused by what was at the time the greatest planetary poison, namely oxygen. Yes, oxygen was the greatest planetary poison: the greatest mass extinction was caused by oxygen. Therefore, it is not the planet that has the problem, at most it is us. I would now like to reply to Senator Vallardi more than anything else to reassure him, because he spoke, in my opinion, in part also rightly, of the concept of means of agricultural transport, in particular with regard to the fact that there can be an intervention on excise duties and therefore on the facilitation of agricultural diesel. Firstly, a modern tractor is certainly less polluting if it is powered by methane than if it is destroyed and replaced by an electric tractor, which does not exist. That is, there are no electric tractors with autonomous power supply; those that exist need an energy-generating cabin as large as a container, which stands on the side of the field and is connected to the tractor by a cable. Therefore, since we want to have this great openness, we must not only compute the momentous emissions of a medium, but also all those that have been caused by its construction and its subsequent destruction. In any case, agricultural gas oil will not be put into crisis for a very simple reason that is linked to the refining of crude oil: when refining crude oil, whether we like it or not, 30 percent is always gas oil, a mixture of hydrocarbons with a certain molecular weight. When we refine the crude oil we cannot hope that only gasoline or gas oil or only kerosene will come out; what comes, according to the lightness of the diesel oil itself. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, as long as there is refining of crude oil there will be diesel oil. So don't worry, there's no problem with diesel. The real issue that has not been dealt with is this: since we want to have a long-term opening, we need to ask ourselves about lithium batteries. There is no world-wide supply chain of treatment or disposal, now this problem is being posed the largest producer, which is China. But we do not want to address this issue because the real question of the future is this: when we talk about circular economy we focus on the vacuum to make plastic tray, but in reality we have to focus on the problem of batteries and a second problem that concerns the cost of replacing a vehicle's battery pack. After five years the battery pack must be replaced and the value of a vehicle after five years is less than the value of the replacement of the battery pack; therefore an electric mobility must necessarily take into account that there is a risk of increasing the planned obsolescence of the media. I would like to make one last important clarification of what Senator Gallicchio said. It has been said that the planet Earth has rightly experienced an estimated thermal increase month by month, but at this moment we are at about 0.87 degrees centigrade. However, you mentioned the pre-industrial levels, which are actually those prior to 1750, when we came out of the small ice age; the greatest winter of that time was that of 1708, therefore that is not the reference period. Each State has provided its own and the Intergovernmental panel on climate change (IPCC) has taken one; for Italy the reference average is the 30-year fixed one 1950-1980, or mobile one 1970-2000. When we talk about an increase we must always say what, because it is always a relative and never absolute fact. To conclude by replying to Senator Gallicchio, it has been said that we must make a move towards renewable energies, but then why did the decree RES1 in fact cut the legs of two out of three of the most important renewable energies? That is the real question that the majority should answer, and we are still waiting for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u84	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all those who have worked very hard in 13a. Commission, from the President, Senator Moronese, to all Commissioners. I have all said why the work has been well done by everyone, with a wide internal debate within the Commission, followed by my Ministry. Similarly, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator L'Abbate. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] I've been here all morning, and as you've noticed, I've taken notes and notes of all the surgeries. I have made no distinction on the basis of their origin, whether by the majority, rather than by the opposition. I have taken notes because it is important for the Minister to listen to what the representative of the Senate says and also because additional ideas can emerge that should not be overlooked at all. Taking notes is, for me, not only a gesture of courtesy and respect, but also something very concrete. I say this in these terms because everything that will subsequently arise from the adoption - I hope - of the bill will not be lost. Everything that will not be inside, for various reasons, will certainly not be lost: it will be recovered, where possible, in the bill of stability or in the so-called environmental connection, which, as you know, is located at the beginning of the new year and has a facilitated path. I say this not to please someone, but because it is a gesture of respect not only to me, but to the Government towards those who have produced an idea that comes from the debate which, of course, in turn, has arisen in the Commission territory, environment and environmental goods. Therefore, with great frankness and transparency, I think it is necessary to really thank everyone for this work. I now come to something very concrete. You know that one of the elements that is pushing for the ecological transition is what the United Nations tells us and that certifies the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel of Experts on Climate Change), which is basically the scientific arm of the United Nations, for the benefit of the whole planet. When he tells us that, since the beginning of the industrial revolution, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 (carbon dioxide) has increased by 40 percent, this is an established and unsustainable figure. You certainly know all this data. When he tells us that all emissions of climate-altering gases are basically from human activity, that is, human activity, it is an established fact. When the World Health Organization reminds us of so-called premature diseases or deaths in relation to issues obviously related to climate pressure, it reminds us of significant things concerning life and death. We know that Italy is also under infringement procedure, in particular, in this case, for air quality, complaining - alas - 80,000 premature deaths, and also for the quality of water (that is why we find within the measure under consideration interventions for water quality). Almost all of this morning's speeches have shown that the climate bill is not exhaustive, as it is called in the mass-media jargon (in fact - you know - the name of the measure is quite different and concerns air quality and more). However, to understand us and for exhibition convenience, let's call it decree-climate law. It is indeed true and as Minister of the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea and therefore representative of the Government I cannot deny it: the measure is not exhaustive, nor could it be in a path that is being undertaken. Keep in mind that that path started with the fiscal law of 2019, in which we voted, for example, the tax credit in favour of VAT matches that produced with bioplastics or compostable plastics: this was born in a group of government different from the current, but that had the same sense and the same path, that of protecting against climate change and the habits of our country. That path then continued. Imagine, for example, the PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate), laid down by the previous Government, which was defined in June 2019 by the European Union as one of the top three best energy and climate plans in Europe. That means there are 25 more that don't have our profile and standing. It is an Italian pride and again a piece of road that has been accomplished. Another small piece is the decree-climate law, a small piece of a broader vision. Then there will be, by the end of December, the budget law with the green new deal and then there will be the environmental connection: all this in a broader vision that is the European green deal, that is, that of Ursula von der Leyen. I mean that if we think about this rule alone it is not exhaustive; if we put together these rules we compose a vision of environmental protection compared to the issue of climate change that obviously lasts longer than the time of this legislature. It is multi-annual and multi-legislation: it is an investment over time. We all need to know that. I greatly appreciated the work done in the Commission and which you all did, even this morning, because the climate decree as it was presented needed additional elements. Interesting additional elements have come from the Environment Commission. Think of how Article 1 has been enriched with the addition of article l-a: let's talk about the CIPESS, that is, the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning and Sustainable Development. It is very significant, so those who claim that there is no vision do not really have the confidence of what CIPE does. The vision is multi-programmatic and goes beyond. That is why Article 1 is important. The following articles seem to be disconnected from each other, but they are not: they are micro-interventions. I do not want to go into the technical detail, which the rapporteur has developed (I thank her again for this), but what is the element? If for CIPE we have a programmatic vision (and for this I must publicly thank not only the senator who produced the amendment, but also the undersecretary Fraccaro who shared this path, remembering that he is responsible for CIPE), we remember that when we talk about mobility, urban reforestation, information to citizens, consumer awareness/ green corner, we are talking to the individual citizen and families. In this decree-climate law, in addition to defining a multi-annual programming, we are telling the citizen, the family and the enterprise that they can make small choices and that the state helps them with incentives. We help them with incentives; we don't compress them differently, but we help them make the choice. It is a choice and is therefore free. It means that every citizen, every family and every enterprise can make their choice. They are simple choices, they are not articulated choices: to choose to have an assisted bike, to take a public vehicle or to buy bulk products. These are choices that we, our families and the families of the 60 million Italians can make. They can be done at any time. Mr President, I shall conclude. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I gave her an extra minute. Mr COSTA, Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Then this is the element. With regard to reforestation, you have no idea how clogged the e-mail box of the Ministry of E-mail of the citizens who ask us to do so. Information to citizens is the true expression of the Aarhus Convention, so every citizen can, with a single click on a portal, know what happens in the environmental world of Italy and Europe. Today the citizen has to go and get this information everywhere. Who do we ask to do that to? ISPRA. Think of the environmental economic zones (ZEA): finally we make it comfortable for those living in the areas of national parks, to give one more, to always be the country of beauty and protection of nature. Or think about how important the VIS (health impact assessment) is at sites of national interest. Eat machines: we all complain because we see them all over Europe and not in Italy; today we can also see them in Italy. These are small things that the citizen feels on the skin, without any other claim, because the rest will come from the perspective of the overall vision that I have described to you so far. Thank you all for the work you have done. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Senator Ruspandini's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u88	ABBATE, rapporteur. Mr President, the opinions of the Budget Committee have now arrived. We would need about thirty minutes: time to check the proposed amendments. We've only received them now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u89	If the opinions have arrived now, the rapporteur needs time. I'm suspending the session for exactly 30 minutes, no more. (The sitting was suspended at 5.19 p.m. and resumed at 5.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u90	I communicate that, in agreement with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the parliamentary committees of inquiry on the banking and financial system and the events that have occurred in the "Il Forteto" community are convened on Tuesday 3 December, at 10 a.m., to proceed to its constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u91	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency declares that amendments 1.0.13 (text 2) cannot be proposed for the second part only, 2.0.701, 4.32, 4.45, 4.58, 4.61 (text 2) only for the second part of paragraph 4-a, 4.0.31, 4.0.32, 4.0.33, 5.10 (text 2), 5.36, 5.37, 5.0.2, 5.0.4, 5.0.7, 8.0.2, 8.0.14, 8.0.15, 8.0.16 and 8.0.19 because they are unrelated to the content of the decree-law. Amendments 8.0.12 and 8.0.13 are also inadmissible as they modify a legislative source that is not legally binding. With regard to the sub-amendments submitted, the Presidency declares that sub-amendment 4.0.851/2, limited to the words "to this end" to the end of the sub-amendment, as they are not relevant to the subject-matter of the decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u92	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo Pignataro Maggiore-Camigliano, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u93	The amendments and agendas referred to Articles 3 to 8 of the Decree-Law are set out. I briefly suspend the sitting pending the preparation of the amendments. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.12 p.m.) I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 1 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u94	Mr President, the opinion is against Amendments 01.1, 1.2 and 1.3 and in favour of Amendments 1.1 (text 2), 1.4 and 1.5. Amendments 1.8, 1.9, 1.10, 1.11 and 1.12 have been withdrawn. I am in favour of amendment 1.6 and against amendment 1.13. The opinion was in favour of amendment 1.14 (text 3). Amendments 1.15, 1.16, 1.19, 1.20, 1.22 and 1.23 have been withdrawn. I am against Amendments Nos 1,17, 1,18 and 1,21 (text 2) and 1,24. Amendment 1,200 has also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u95	We don't have it withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u96	ABBATE, rapporteur. We're checking. If it is not withdrawn, I am against Amendment 1,200. With regard to agenda G1100, I am in favour of the commitment a) and against commitment b). In addition, amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.526 and 1.0.4 have been withdrawn. I am in favour of amendment 1.0.5 (text 3). Amendment 1.0.6 has been withdrawn. I am opposed to Amendment 1.0.7 (text 3)/100. I am in favour of amendment 1.0.7 (text 3). I also object to Amendments 1.0.8 (text 2)/100, 1.0.8 (text 2)/101 and 1.0.8 (text 2)/102. On the other hand, as rapporteur, I would ask you to withdraw amendment 1.0.8 (text 2) from the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u99	MARTELLI (Mixed). I'll do it myself, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u100	I therefore object to Amendment 1.0.8 (text 2) and to Amendments 1.0.9, 1.0.11, 1.0.12 and 1.0.13 (text 2). Amendments 1.0.19, 1.0.10 and 1.0.17 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u101	Amendment 1.0.13 (text 2) is not available for the second part only, from the word "i.e. until the end of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u102	ABBATE, rapporteur. I therefore object to the first part of Amendment 1.0.13 (text 2). Amendment 1.0.14 has been withdrawn. I am against Amendments 1.0.18, 1.0.15, 1.0.16 and 1.0.20. Amendments 1.0.21 and 1.0.22 have been withdrawn. I am against Amendment 1.0.700.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u103	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u106	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 1,200, at my first signature, I thought I understood that we had asked for its provision, if possible. Or I misheard. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur has voted against this amendment. I would add that there is the contrary opinion of the 5th Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution. Floridia (M5S). It was set aside before, so I ask the rapporteur if she can put it aside. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Floridia, the rapporteur has already explained that she is opposed to this, and there is also opposition from the 5th Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u109	PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I fear that the rapporteur was mistaken, perhaps. Also, I'd like to ask for a provision... president. Excuse me, Mr Pesco, would the rapporteur have made a mistake in relation to Amendment 1,200? PESCO (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you talking about this amendment, on which there is also the opposition of the 5th Commission? PESCO (M5S). Mr President, I am talking about amendment 1,200. We ask the rapporteur what the opinion is. I don't think he's against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The opinion was given and is opposed. And there is also the opposite opinion of the 5th Commission. PESCO (M5S). On this I would ask, if possible, for a provision. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Provision is not possible after the opinion has already been given. I do not understand how an amendment on which the opinion has already been expressed can be put aside.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u110	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u112	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 01.1 and ask that it be turned into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator, you will say that as soon as we begin the examination of the amendments. We are now talking about amendment 1,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u115	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, in relation to amendment 1,200 yesterday, the Budget Committee gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. So now I would like to ask the President of the Budget Commission why yesterday there was opposition under Rule 81 and today he is suddenly asking to put it aside. I just want a clarification. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u116	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u118	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to stigmatise in this House that at 18.20 we have not yet been able to start voting on the amendments because of the total incompetence and disorganization of this majority. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] It's not possible, at 6:20. There's no text, either. This is the third time I have rewritten the amendments (yes, no, abstained), and I have not yet received the text. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Sorry, now they think we should have another text - and this would be the environment - where we should go see each other again. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). What are you talking about? GALLONE (FI-BP). What am I talking about? Another text, because this of November 20 is old.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u121	MORONESE (M5S). President, I am only speaking to clarify. We were already ready, of course there was a deadline today for the submission of sub-amendments, we had to have time to bundle them up and forward them to the Budget Commission. After the opinion of the Budget Commission, there was a request for half an hour to verify the opinions of the 5th Commission, so the time to arrive at 6 p.m., to allow the offices to print and give you all a dossier on which to work. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let us not waste any more time with unnecessary exploitations. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u122	I call on the government representative to give his opinion, because he has not yet done so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u123	Mr President, I voted in favour of the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u124	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 01.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u127	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, after the opinions have been given, we go in order, so I had booked myself in time, because otherwise everyone takes the floor on a number of amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You're right, in fact, it's not easy conduction, be patient. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Also because the files, when they're ready, you go and get them. I'm not telling her. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government had given an opinion against Amendment 01.1, I withdrew it and gave a draft agenda on which I asked if there was a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u128	Mr President, I am in favour of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u129	Mr President, the Government is also in favour of accepting the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u130	Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.1010 will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u133	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 1.2 and the following Amendment 1.3 because they are similar in content to Amendment 1.4, on which a favourable opinion has been given. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u134	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1.4, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.9 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.8 and 1.10 have been withdrawn. On Amendment 1.13 the 5th Commission issued a non-obstacle opinion subject to rewording. Senator Arrigoni, do you accept the reformulation? Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.11 and 1.12 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment No 1.14 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.15 and 1.16 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.17, tabled by Senator Borgonzoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Borgonzoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.19 and 1.20 have been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 1.21 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1.21 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,22 and 1.23 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.24, tabled by Senator De Vecchis. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u135	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u137	Floridia (M5S). I'm gonna drop it, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u140	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I shall do so myself and ask for the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u141	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,200, tabled by Senator Floridia and other senators, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda G1.100 the Government is prepared to accept it only under point (a) of the operative part. I ask the presenters if they accept the Government's request. THE MURA (M5S). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.100 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Amendments 1.0.1, 1.0.526 and 1.0.4 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.5 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.6 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.7 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.7 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.8 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.0.8 (text 2/101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.8 (text 2)/101, tabled by Senators Taricco and Biti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 1.0.8 (text 2/102, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u144	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, the amendment previously tabled by the Commission establishes the famous programme for the disposal of environmentally harmful subsidies. I have heard so much about these famous 14 billion subsidies which should also be phased out, but in practice, when there is a chance of doing so, the answer becomes negative. Therefore, I was right when I said in my reply that there are good intentions, but in practice things are not done. This was the time to leave. The amendment was not intended to do so and there were no figures; it was said: we set up a table to study how to do it progressively. The bottom step of this amendment is: we do nothing. The only alternative to rejecting the amendment is to do nothing. That is why I voted in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.8 (text 2/102, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.8 (text 2), tabled by the Commission, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken over by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.9 tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.19 and 1.0.10 have been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 1.0.11, which is identical to Amendment 1.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u148	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, before I even listen to the opinion, I wanted to defend the amendment with a view to the energy exploitation of areas that have already been affected from an environmental point of view, because it is appropriate, when renewable energy plants are planted on heavily damaged soils from an environmental point of view and, therefore, no longer usable as agricultural land or for any other use, to be able to overcome the ban and in fact allow access to state incentives. The rule, in fact, has a mere legal and non-financial connotation and, therefore, does not lead to an increase in government expenditure. Instead, it would be a good thing to be able to use environmentally compromised land in a virtuous way, which would otherwise be deserted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u151	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment 1.0.12. Members of the majority in this House and the Minister have said how important this measure is in order to combat climate change. After the words we must also turn to the facts and the contrasts to climate change are implemented by pursuing the objectives included in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan (PNIEC) such as the reduction of CO2, the increase of the energy efficiency of the buildings and also the increase of the production of energy from renewable sources. For this reason the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Economic Development, in July issued a ministerial decree that provides incentives for new plants made from renewable sources ( wind and photovoltaic), giving priority to those plants that are built on landfills and lots of closed and restored landfills and quarries not susceptible to further exploitation. Once the quarries are disused and the landfills are exhausted, they are used for agricultural purposes. Too bad that there is a decree-law (No. 1 of 2012) that, in Article 65, prohibits precisely to perceive the incentives for photovoltaic systems built on agricultural areas. So there are two conflicting rules between them, a conflict that our amendment, like the one tabled by the Forza Italia Group, at the first signature of Senator Gallone, wants to overcome. We have a negative opinion because the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which are committed to budgetary law, did not want to draw up a technical report. This amendment, however, does not entail any greater burden on public finance. [[Applause from Senator Gallone]] It seeks to remedy a discrepancy between two laws of the State. Therefore, in the light of these considerations and those made by Mr Gallone, I would ask the majority and the representative of the Government to reconsider their position on this amending proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u152	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.11, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendment 1.0.12, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.17 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 1.0.13 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.0.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, up to the words "the interventions." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.18 and 1.0.15 are therefore not included. Amendment 1.0.14 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.0.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.16, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.20, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.20, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.0.21 and 1.0.22 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.700, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u153	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.4, while the opinion is in favour of Amendment 2.5. Amendments 2.7 and 2.8 (text 2) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u154	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u156	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I accept Amendment 2.8 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u157	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments 2.16, 2.22, 2.30, 2.33, 2.38, 2.39. I am against Amendments 2.8 (text 2), 2.12, 2.19, 2.21, 2.1, 2.23, 2.24, 2.25, 2.28, 2.33/100, 2.34, 2.35, 2.37, 2.32, 2.40, 2.207, 2.0.1 (text 2), 2.0.2, 2.0.6, 2.0.4, 2.0.5 and 2.0.700). Amendments 2.9, 2.11, 2.13, 2.14, 2.15, 2.10, 2.17, 2.18, 2.20, 2.3, 2.26, 2.27, 2.29, 2.31, 2.36, 2.41, 2.42 and 2.0.3 have been withdrawn, while amendment 2.0,701 is not possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u158	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u159	Let us move on to Amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u162	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, apart from the fact that - I repeat - you have whistled at me, but, as you can see, the dossiers are still missing, Amendment 2.4 arises from the need that the term 'environmentally sustainable' should be accompanied by the definition 'economically sustainable' with incentives, as the Minister rightly said before, and not by penalising economic growth, because the right to health and the right to work are closely linked and the one cannot obviously exclude the other. Let's remember that on the green new deal, in Italian, is also based the budgetary maneuver that will penalise, instead of encouraging, economic growth. So we want to give a signal, by increasing the appropriations, not by taking them from the fund for subsidies but from the income of citizenship to increase the allocations for incentives for the environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u163	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.5, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.7 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u164	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u165	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u166	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to explain why I voted for this amendment on the provision and management of good mobility which can be enjoyed by citizens living in 3,200 municipalities in the country, citizens with zero or lower euro machines, or two-stroke euro 2 or euro 3 motorcycles. This amendment raises the question of who should handle the hundreds of thousands of applications to benefit from good mobility. If we do not specify who is the subject to intervene (this amendment indicates the Region where the Municipality is concerned) we risk to introduce a measure that will in fact be unworkable because there is no managing entity. If we reject this amendment at this point, who will be the body that will have to manage these hundreds of thousands of good mobility? The Ministry of Economy and Finance or the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea? That is the point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u167	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.8 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pavanelli and other senators, subsequently withdrawn and made by Senator Arrigoni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.9 and 2.11 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.13, 2.14 and 2.15 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.16 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.10, 2.17 and 2.18 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.19 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.20 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.21, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, identical to amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.3 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.22, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.23, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.24, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, up to the words 'pneumatics' reconstructed. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.25 are therefore excluded. Amendments 2.26 and 2.27 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 2.28, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.28, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.29 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.30, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.31 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.33/100, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.33, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.34 to 2.32 are therefore not included. Amendment 2.36 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.38, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.39, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,40, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,40, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.41 and 2.42 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2,207, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.1 (text 2) has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.0.2 tabled by Senator Ortis and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u170	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to ask for a specification. I understood that Amendment 2.0.1 (text 2) had not been withdrawn by Senator Girotto. From what I understood, he would have maintained it and the opinion would have been against it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gallone, Senator Girotto then informed the Presidency that he withdrew the amendment in question. GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, then I ask you to do so, and I ask you to vote on it. MORONESE (M5S). But we've moved on! GALLONE (FI-BP). We went further because I did not understand that this amendment had been withdrawn. I heard...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u171	Senator Gallone, the Presidency authorizes you to adopt Amendment 2.0.1 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Girotto and other senators, which was subsequently withdrawn and taken by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.6 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.6 tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.3 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u174	Campari (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this amendment goes in the direction of helping those who work every day. In fact, it provides incentives for the change of means of work, which are then the lightest ones, those of the baker, rather than the various means that we see every day used by those who work and by those who spend sweat for their work. We are talking about using the same method as the building bonus, i.e. providing for a deduction of gross tax which varies according to 40 or 55 per cent, if a more polluting vehicle is broken or not broken. In our view, it would be a good signal to implement a measure that can be useful and actually used rather than merely commercial and publicity interventions. We believe that it would be necessary to change the register and bring a change of course, going to give incentives to change, rather than taxing what you are using for work and that, not by will, you cannot change. You have to help and not punish.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u175	I call on Senator Campari and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.4. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 2.0,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.700, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.701 is not possible. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u176	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.1, 3.2, 3.5 and 3.6. I withdraw amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u177	Senator L'Abbate, as rapporteur, you cannot withdraw an amendment tabled by the Commission. We gave her this opportunity earlier because she had made an amendment. However, you do not represent the Commission, which is composed of several members, so you cannot withdraw Amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u178	ABBATE, rapporteur. I'm told something different than what I was told before. I therefore object to Amendment 3.8. I also object to Amendments 3.7, 3.9 and 3.10. I am therefore in favour of Amendment 3.11 and against Amendment 3.13/100. The opinion was also in favour of Amendment 3.13 and opposed to Amendments 3.14, 3.15 and 3.17. Finally, I am in favour of Amendments 3.18 and 3.19 (text 2) and against Amendments 3.821, 3.0.1, 3.0.2, 3.0.3 (text 2) and 3.0.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u179	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. (at 19.01)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u180	Let us move on to Amendment 3.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u183	RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the considerable restrictions linked to the lack of availability of Article 3 (10 million euros for 2020), certainly due to the policy, which has already provided for the abolition of the Ministry for Disability and Family, do not understand why Article 3, paragraph 1, does not include and include as a condition the transport services of persons with disabilities. I hope you become aware of this choice. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u184	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Rufa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.3 and 3.4 are withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Martelli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.6, tabled by Senator Pazzaglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u185	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u187	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that the rapporteur has voted against Amendment 3.8, the original wording of which was signed by Legist senators, approved by the Commission not unanimously. Clearly, after approval in the Commission, tensions have taken place within the political forces of the majority which have led to a change of opinion. However, I would like to stress the meaning of this amendment. Article 3 aims to help sustainable school transport by allocating public resources to buy electric or hybrid vans and we all know that there are few electric vans. With Amendment 3.8 we wanted to ensure that municipal administrations could buy, in addition to these means, also those with approval not less than Euro 6 registered for the first time after 31 August 2019, because from 1 September in the European Union there have been absolutely lower maximum emissive limits. We believe that this opposition is demagogic and under the banner of an ideology that hurts our country, so we strongly reaffirm the vote in favour of amendment 3.8. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u188	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u190	Mr Morassut, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, I would like to make it clear that at a first reading of Amendment 3.8 an error of interpretation was actually made, so the Commission was also deceived by the Government's opinion for an error of interpretation of the proposed rule. In fact, at a second and more careful reading it is clear that the text proposes to give incentives to diesel traction vehicles, thus going into contradiction, even if the observations of Senator Arrigoni are relevant, since they are recently registered vehicles, but with diesel traction. The opinion is therefore opposed. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u193	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I would like to support Mr Arrigoni's speech, because I too had tabled a similar amendment, which was not properly adopted because I had not been careful about the issue of registration after 31 August, so I voted in favour of Amendment 3.8. We are talking about school transport and schools; we cannot force schools to spend so much money unless the government decides to set up a fund to replace the school bus park and at that point of course we would be in favour. Leaving the possibility of purchasing vehicles with a type approval of not less than Euro 6 registered after 31 August and with emission limits so low in my opinion would certainly help the school that, as you know, is already in unhappiness.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u196	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I shall vote for this amendment in line with what was done in the Commission, where I voted against. I welcome the fact that, after 24 hours of reflection, my intervention in the Commission, in which I said that and which had been very little success, has broken down. However - there is always one, however - I would like to point out one thing, in connection with Amendment 3.5. There are no hybrid diesel-electric vehicles at this time. So on the plate of the scale there are, on the one hand, more electric gasoline and, on the other, a diesel Euro 6. Unfortunately, all the studies say that in this configuration the minor emissions, "from the cradle to the grave," are those of diesel Euro 6. That was why the proposal was as follows: let's get rid of both the hybrid and the Euro 6 and put directly the fuel cells, which - I remember - are not only experimental because there are three models currently marketed in Italy. There is only one distributor in Bolzano, but - I repeat - the product is already commercially available. This is the real leap towards locally zero emission mobility. So let's have this rethink, but the problem of petrol hybrid, which pollutes more than Euro 6 diesel, remains. I say this right because the rigor comes first.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u199	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, my approach to this amendment is contrary, as the Undersecretary rightly points out. I would also like to respond to Mr Gallone, who asked for a fund to be set up to allow schools to purchase unbeatable means. Article 3 of the Decree-Law provides for the allocation of EUR 20 million for two years for the purchase of hybrid or electric vehicles in support of school mobility. Perhaps a careful reading of Article 3 could have helped. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u200	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.8, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.7, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.9, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.10 tabled by Senator Pazzaglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.11, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.13/100, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 3.13, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.14, 3.15 and 3.17 are therefore not included. Amendment 3.16 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment No 3.18, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.19 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.821, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u201	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u203	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, there is the part about environmental education within the measure. This amending proposal of mine was additional, because it resumes an ancient pallino of mine, that is to place within the educational trips the practical environmental education, in the sense of favoring educational trips and guided tours aimed at making known the importance of the natural and landscape heritage, also through direct interventions of preservation and cleanliness of the places and territories. Lately, with the Fridays for futures and the stimulus from Greta, the kids are starting to do it autonomously. I presented in 2008 a draft law on matter and was insulted, but today it is extremely topical. One might also expect, but this can be done by implementing decree, to ensure that these trips, for this purpose, can also have a financial relief for the kids who make them. I do not propose it officially here, otherwise it would not be taken into consideration, but it would be good that trips could have that purpose.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u204	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.821, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u205	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u206	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u207	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my explanation of vote is also common to Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2). I am referring in particular to the latter, with which a budget of EUR 100 million is planned for 2020 for all municipalities in the country with a population of less than 20,000 inhabitants for energy efficiency and sustainable development interventions. Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2) is financed with 100 million auction proceeds for CO2 allowance emissions in 2019. Even on this amendment we were not satisfied by the Budget Commission, which demanded a technical report that the MEF did not produce, because, since we are in the budgetary session, the MEF is rightly engaged in budgetary law. Why do I want to bring this amendment to your attention, which provides for EUR 100 million to the municipalities in 2020 for energy efficiency and sustainable development interventions? Beyond the chatter (and many make it members of the majority on this measure, talking about the National Strategic Programme for Combating Climate Change), this measure allocates, for 2020, 135 million euros mainly for the metropolitan cities and some rudeness for the municipalities. Well, I would like to remind you that in 2019 the budget law allocated to the municipalities of our country 400 million euros for security interventions and 500 million euros for energy efficiency interventions and sustainable development: 400 plus 500 is 900 million euros for this year. Well, the budget law of the yellow-red government (or yellow-fuchsia) appropriations for the municipalities for 2020 only 585 million euros: 325 million euros less than this year allocated by the government where the League was mostly. This is to say that, apart from chatter, if adequate resources are not allocated to the Commons, the fight against climate change remains only fried air. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u208	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u211	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, this is an amendment that I would regret if it did not pass (and it will not pass, so I shall be sorry) because it provided for the 4% VAT for hybrid or electric cars for the disabled, without a limit of displacement, because obviously a disabled person needs a car suitable for transport. I renew the call, which a colleague has already made before, to pay attention to this aspect. When it comes to environment, I always remember one thing: what is needed for someone is very often useful for everyone. Let us think about it and vote on an amendment which also allows people with disabilities to buy a hybrid or electric car within this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u212	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.4 tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u213	Mr President, I support Amendments 4.7 (text 2), 4.18, 4.21, 4.25 (text 2), 4.35, 4.51, 4.52, 4.41 (text 2), 4.54 (text 2), 4.56, 4.59 (text 2), 4.63 (text 3), 4.64 (text 2), 4.65 (text 2), 4.280 (text 2), 4.0.13, 4.0.14, 4.0.15, 4.0.20, 4.0.850, 4.0.850, 4.0.851 and 4.0.852. I am against the remaining amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u214	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u215	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senators Martelli and Nugnes, until the words "2020 and 2021" are put to the vote. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.2 (text 2) are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 4.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, identical to amendments 4.5, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, and 4.6, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Taricco. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.9, tabled by Senator Campari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.15, tabled by Senators Martelli and Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.10, tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.12 and 4.13 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 4.14, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.14, tabled by Senator Corti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.17, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.18, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.19 and 4.20 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.21, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.25 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.30 tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.31 has been withdrawn. Amendment 4.32 is not possible. Let us move on to amendment 4.33, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.33, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.34 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.35, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.36, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 437.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u216	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u218	GALLONE (FI-BP). Why not also be able to entrust to the reclamation consortia, which would thus acquire a more complete sense, the design, the direction of works and the realization of environmental interventions? Why not?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u219	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.37, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.38, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, identical to amendments 4.39, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators, and 4.40, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.41 has been withdrawn. We move on to Amendment 4.16 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.16 (text 2), tabled by Senator Nugnes and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.42, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.43 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.44, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.45 is not possible. Amendments 4,46 and 4,47 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.48, tabled by Senator Pazzaglini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.49 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.51, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.52, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.41 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.53 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.54 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4.56, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.58 is not possible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.59 (text 2), tabled by Senators Croatti and Trentacoste. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.60 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.63 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.61 (text 2) for the available part is therefore excluded. Amendment 4.62 (text 2) has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.64 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u220	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u221	I shall cancel the vote. Senator Taricco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u222	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, was the opinion on amendment 4.64 (text 2) not favourable? PRESIDENT. - The debate is We haven't gotten there yet, Senator Taricco. He had me cancel the vote already with the outcome. I refer again to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.64 (text 2)/100, tabled by the senator. Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.64 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.65 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4,280/100, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, up to the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 4.280/101 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.280/102, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u225	ABBATE, rapporteur. Mr President, on Amendment 4.59 (text 2) we gave a favourable opinion, but I believe that it was voted against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Okay. We shall cancel the previous vote. Does the representative of the Government give his assent to that of the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u226	Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u227	I refer again to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.59 (text 2), tabled by Senators Croatti and Trentacoste. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4.280 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,340, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,340, tabled by Senator Campari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,350, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u230	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am referring to text 2, which you cannot read because it is in the files that have not been delivered. I said that and I would repeat it to the point of exhaustion: we will vote in favour of a text on which no question arises for the purposes of Article 81 in fact, because there is no expenditure. In fact, costs are being reduced in terms of time and resources. It is an amendment on which we basically agree, so much so that the text, which concerns dredgings and the management of biomass in the lacual and laminar basins and therefore the Trasimeno, has already had a unanimous vote in the House within the so-called sea-saving measure. You have harassed us by saying that no time is wasted on the environment and now you are going to vote against something on which you basically agree with the excuse that we will approve it in a few months' time. In a few months the environmental situation will have deteriorated and the Trasimeno will have had another summer with a decrease of the important water level. Well, you are now taking the responsibility of wasting more time without real motivation. Our vote will of course be in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u231	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,350, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,360, tabled by Senator Campari and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 4.0.1, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators, until the following words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 4.0.5 to 4.0.6. are therefore excluded. Amendment 4.0.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 4.0.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u232	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u233	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u234	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on this amendment and the other amendments that we have tabled. The ratio of all this is that incentives to farmers cannot be separated from the needs of the environment. I think it is in everyone's eyes that the abandonment of the countryside and mountains is in fact causing a series of hydrogeological disruptions that are going to impact heavily on the environment. In particular, with Amendment 4.0.8 I would ask that tax deductions be increased as regards the green bonus. It is an initiative that members of the PD brought to the territories during the last election campaign, saying that it was definitely in favour of incentives for gardens and parks and, therefore, that it was a positive action. We agree in principle. We had always criticized the tax aspects. In this amendment, I call for tax deduction from 36% to 50% and the expenditure threshold from EUR 5,000 to EUR 10,000. If I have understood correctly, however, both the rapporteur and the Government give an opinion against this amendment, whereas in these days and hours the same amendment is submitted to the budget law by members of the PD and will certainly be voted in favour. I therefore wonder what is the ratio for which today, during the examination of the decree-law on the climate, we vote against the amendment when the same amendment, retabled by the majority on another measure, will receive the vote in favour. So there are two cases: either there is no connection and communication within the majority, or there is a preliminary aspect to the amendments of Brothers of Italy. Of course, the environment and the climate are not defended either by reference or by ideology. I would therefore ask the rapporteur and the Government, whom I see not very careful, to give a favourable opinion on the amendment. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u235	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.8, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 4.0.9 which is identical to Amendments 4.0.10 and 4.0.11, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.9, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators, identical to amendments 4.0.10, tabled by Senator La Pietra and other senators, and 4.0.11, tabled by Senator Centinario and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.12 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4.0.13 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.0.14, 4.0.15 and 4.0.20 are therefore incorporated. Amendment 4.0.21 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 4.0.22, which is identical to amendments 4.0.23 and 4.0.24, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.22, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendments 4.0.23, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, and 4.0.24, tabled by Senator Maffoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.25 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 4.0.26, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.26, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 4.0.27 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.27 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 4.0.29 and 4.0.30 have been withdrawn. Amendments 4.0.31, 4.0.32 and 4.0.33 are unacceptable. Let us turn to amendment 4.0,850/1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,850/1, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4.0,850/2, which is identical to amendment 4.0,850/3, on which the 5th Commission gave its opinion subject to a rewording. I would like to ask the authors whether they intend to accept this rewording. Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr President, I accept the rewording of amendment 4.0.850/2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u236	Mr President, I would like to say that another of the things that we asked the government to do was to intervene on Venice, by including the necessary and urgent interventions in the climate decree. In particular, with amendment 4.0,850/3 we called for the extension of the provisions for SIC and SPA areas to the Venice Lagoon, at least for this first three-year period. We therefore call on you to vote in favour of this amendment, given the situation and given the matter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u237	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,850/2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators, identical to amendment 4.0,850/3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850/4, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4.0,850/5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,850/5, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to amendment 4.0,850/6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0,850/6, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.0.850 in the amended text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u238	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u239	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u240	Mr Morassut, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, I would like to make a formal point. In the heading of the amendment, I propose that we add the expression 'in urban centres', which gives greater completeness to the provisions of paragraph 3 of the same amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u241	Does the rapporteur's opinion remain the same? ABBATE, rapporteur. Yes, Mr President, the opinion is in favour. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.850 (adjusted amended text), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.851/1, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.0.851/2 is not available for the second part only. Senator Briziarelli, will you accept the rewording of the amendment? BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The amendment is therefore unacceptable. We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.0.851.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u242	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u243	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u244	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote on this amendment by the Government, which is also valid for the subsequent amendment 4.0.852, which is still valid for the Government. This amendment establishes the Green Italy Programme to assign the title of green capital of Italy. EUR 3 million is allocated for the next three years, thus reaching EUR 9 million. The subsequent amendment 4.0.852, also presented by the Government, is active experimentally in the Mangeraplasty Programme, providing funds to municipalities to contain the production of plastic waste through the use of ecocompactors. A six-year experimental programme, from 2019 to 2024, for large-scale funding of €27 million. So 27 plus 9 is 36 million euros. What we do not agree with is the financing of these two experimental programmes, because one basically goes to plunder a fund provided for in paragraph 476 of the 2016 budget law, which had been refilled with the last budget law, with other millions of euros, to finance interventions to secure and clean up contaminated sites. This is an environmental issue very present in our country: I want to remember the 50 contaminated national sites. Similarly, this fund also went to finance actions and monitoring interventions, also of a health type, in the territories of the Campania Region, which we know very well how it is put, and specifically also in the Municipalities of Taranto, where Ilva is present, with the known environmental and ecological problems, and also in the municipality of Statte, where for over twenty years there is a deposit with radioactive waste. We regard emptying this fund as a very serious matter and for this reason the Lega Nord Group will vote against these two amendments by the Government. Experimental programmes in relation to the environment cannot be activated by significantly reducing a fund that has been refilled in the last budget law, therefore little more than ten months ago, to go to settle, secure and clean up contaminated sites and to carry out actions to protect the environment and health in the territories of Campania and in the municipalities of Taranto and Statte. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u245	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u246	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u247	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I too take the opportunity to make a speech on the four amendments tabled by the Government, which arrived last night, and to stress the fact that accepting a serious suggestion is not a sin, it can be done. I say this because every time serious and decisive proposals are put forward that do not come from the majority, they are systematically rejected and then, at best - as happens - you proposed in another form, so as not to leave the birthright to others. It seems to me a rather childish attitude and does not honour serious people, who are also present in this majority and in this Government, who may not even be aware of it. As for the four amendments, I am thinking of the proposal by Forza Italia on the vacuum to make: rejected our amendment under Article 81 of the Constitution, it happens, last night it is re-masked, financing the ecocompactors, what else are those machines that crush plastic bottles and aluminum cans. What is it but a prequel of the void to render? With a nice name, though: Eat plastic. Our amendment rejected it. The economic environment zones (EEZs) were also established last night: the special economic zone (ESZ), no, the ZEA zones, yes. That is why we are asking, in the additional amendment that we have tabled, for example, for the area of the Xylella del Salento, where there are dry olive trees in the ZEA areas. On the Green Italy Programme, always on an experimental basis, I have to smile, because more than the green capitals of Italy, I would start to think about the capital of Italy, Rome, which stifles in waste and will never be able to access this financing, not to mention Taranto and everything else. Then I stigmatize and also emphasize where the resources are taken, that is from that famous paragraph 476 of the budget law of 2016, which is a fund reserved for the Bonifiche of the sites particularly - I emphasize particularly - polluted. That is why, on our part too, the vote will be against these two other amendments. I close by recalling the last amendment in order of appearance, last night, which provides for the constitution of green helmets. Now, we already have our Forces of Order and our Armed Forces (and I remember the firefighters who have been protesting for a week because they are not equated): so this should be, of the green, a brand that all our Forces of Order and our Armed Forces should be able to pin on the chest. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is no need to set up an additional sector that is not understood where it will be taken from and less then it is understood why they may be given an additional bonus when instead in the DNA of our Forces of Order and our Armed Forces there is the protection of the environment and therefore of the health and safety of the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u248	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u249	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u250	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, I rise on the same amendment, 4.0.851. Resources are being withdrawn from the fund for sites of national interest and I believe that if resources are removed for the reclamation of these sites, then you cannot go to the territories and preach, as President Zingaretti and Minister Costa do. I find it shameful, it is an absurd hypocrisy: you want to pack this experimental program Eat with money destined for the reclamation of martyred territories. It's a shame! [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u251	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.851, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 4.0.852/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u253	Senator Martelli, he's become talkative at this hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u254	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u255	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, I cannot say that I am a diesel, but in fact the temptation would be there. Sub-amendment 4.0.852/1, in my opinion, takes one of the important points of the famous circular economy. I am also referring to the next amendment, of which this is a sub-amendment. The real question of plastic is that it must be kept intact, that is, the solution to the problem is not to destroy it and rebuild it because chemistry teaches that it is a process that cannot be done indefinitely, so the key, even if it is not feasible for all the aluminum packaging but for those of plastic yes, is not to destroy them. This sub-amendment affects almost the centre of the target, saying that the key must be to move to a vacuum delivery also with regard to non-glass packaging. That is why my vote will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u256	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.852/1, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.0.852.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u257	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u258	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u259	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, on this amendment I do not think I am going beyond abstention. The reason why my vote will not be against but abstaining is that at least the compactors will be made by the local authorities. In fact, the worst thing that can happen is for the private to come into conflict, therefore in conflict of interest, on a valuable raw material such as plastic packaging with a public body. The public body draws from the collection and the bestowal of the materials also a profit in place of sale. When high value raw materials are taken away from them, it is clearly put into further financial difficulty. That is why my vote will not be in favour. I have said so before, but it is worth explaining. First of all, they should not be compactors but gatherers, containers of the void intact. Secondly, we cannot think of the compactors normally in use, which are those for bottles. But we must not confine ourselves only to bottles, because all branded packaging has the same level of nobility, if not higher, than that of PET. For this reason, this sub-amendment had to be better cut out and aimed at providing both the whole vacuum and various types of packaging which, otherwise, should be dispersed. Finally, this amendment conflicts with the plastic tax, because the plastic tax is at its source, applied on all polymers, regardless of their future use. PET is also taxed, whether it goes to be a pasta scolapasta, which ends up in the non-recoverable, or that it goes to make the bottle, which is considered a virtuous thing and as such to confer in the compactor. So, this is just the example of a wrong tax, because it hits in the same way different situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u260	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.852, tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda referred to in Article 5 of the Decree-Law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u261	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of Amendments 5.2, 5.15, 5.16, 5.18, 5.31, 5.28 (text 2), the agenda for the G5,200 and the additional amendments 5.0.1 (text 4) and 5.0,850.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u262	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u263	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1 tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, up to the words "comma 5". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.6 are therefore not included. Amendment 5.5 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 5.7, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, until the second part of Amendment 5.7. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 5.8 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.9, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.10 (text 2) is improbable. Amendments 5.11, 5.12 and 5.13 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.15 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.16 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.14, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.17 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.17 (text 2), tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.28 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.19, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.20, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.21, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 5.22, identical to amendment 5.60, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.22, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators, identical to amendment 5.60, tabled by Senator Arrigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 5.23, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.23, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 5,24, 5,25 and 5,27 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.29, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.30, tabled by Senator Beginini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.31, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.32 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.33, tabled by Senator Rauti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.28 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.34 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 5,830, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5,830, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.35 has been withdrawn. Amendments 5.36 and 5.37 cannot be proposed. Having been accepted by the Government, the G5200 agenda will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 5.0.1 (text 4), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.2 is not possible. Amendment 5.0.3 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to Amendment 5.0,700, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u264	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u265	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u266	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are quite surprised at the negative views that have been expressed on this amendment, which is very important. During the previous government, too, a number of talks had been held with Minister Costa on the problem of the limits to perfluorates, the limits to discharges and the limits to drinking water. In Veneto there is a serious and pronounced case of pollution by perfluorates, which particularly afflicts the Province from which I come. In the course of the previous parliamentary term, a considerable dispute arose on this subject, to the point that a report was made, during the work of the Committee of Inquiry into the Eco-Reatas, which saw the Veneto Region in particular on the bench of defendants. For what reason? A diatribe has arisen on who should impose the limits, whether the State or the Region. Now the Veneto Region has undertaken a virtuous path, providing for a policy of total containment of the so-called perfluorates. But the pollution from perfluorates, that is the presence of this substance, has been found in many other areas and in many other territories of our State. In this sense, therefore, we are asking - and we have been asking for this for some time - for the Government to assume responsibility for imposing limits. There was an amendment also proposed by Senators Guidolin, Trentacoste, Endrizzi, Girotto, Vanin and Sbrollini on the inclusion of limits for drinking water for human use. What we are asking is that these limits be included in all discharges, because otherwise these substances can be placed in water which can then be used for irrigation. This is a very important issue. I am sorry that there is no Minister Costa because several times he had personally, figuratively or theatrically committed himself to the imposition of these limits, which we do not yet see. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u267	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.700, tabled by Senator Stefani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.4 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 5.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.5, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.0.7 is not possible. We move on to amendment 5.0,701 (text2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u268	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u269	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u270	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I would ask the Budget Commission to review its opinion, because it is a purely legal amendment, which does not involve any expenditure. If this request is not accepted, I shall turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u271	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the G5.701 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u272	Mr President, the opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u273	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u274	Having been accepted by the Government, the G5.701 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.850/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u275	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u276	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u277	MOLES (FI-BP). Mr President, I would just like to ask for an additional attention and perhaps an amendment to the opinion on Amendment 5.0.850/1, because we are talking about green helmets for the environment and sincerely, from the formulation of the government, we do not understand who they are composed of: we exclude the smurfs because they are blue, but maybe they are Martians. With our amendment we therefore specify what we believe to be a lack of government, that is not to have indicated the personnel of the Armed Forces, of Police and of Civil Protection that already operates in this field. I therefore hope that the Government and the rapporteur will reconsider their opinion. [[Applause from the FI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u278	I don't see second thoughts, so I put it to the vote with the opposite opinion. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.850/1, tabled by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.0.850.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u279	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u280	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u281	Mr Morassut, State Secretary for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea. Mr President, here too I would like to make a formal point. I would ask you to include at the beginning of the amendment, after the words: It is established, the following words: "at the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea." The amendment deals with an experimental programme which is already in place, but which needs a budget chapter which has been prepared at the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u282	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.850 (text 2), tabled by the Government. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u283	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-11-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-167.ana.u284	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 21 November, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed (20.08 p.m.).
