ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the Vice-President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u4	I inform you that on 21 September 2019 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministers for Cultural Goods and Activities, of agricultural food, forestry and tourism policies, of foreign affairs and international cooperation, of economic development, of defence, of the interior, of infrastructure and transport, of the environment and of the protection of the territory and of the sea and of education, of the university and of research: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 21 September 2019 laying down urgent provisions for the transfer of functions and for the reorganisation of ministries for cultural goods and activities, agricultural food, forestry and tourism policies, economic development, foreign affairs and international cooperation, infrastructure and transport and the environment and for the protection of the territory and the sea, as well as for the remodulation of appropriations for the revision of roles and careers and for the extraordinary work of police and armed forces and for the continuity of the functions of the Authority for the guarantees in communications" (1493).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, by letter of 18 September 2019, Senator Riccardo Nencini communicated the constitution, pursuant to Rule 14 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, of the Parliamentary Group called "Italia Viva-P.S.I." (Italy). The Senators are members of the Group: Riccardo Nencini, Teresa Bellanova, Francesco Bonifazi, Eugenio Beginini, Donatella Conzatti, Giuseppe Cucca, Davide Faraone, Laura Garavini, Nadia Ginetti, Leonardo Grimani, Ernesto Magorno, Mauro Marino, Matteo Renzi, Daniela Sbrollini, Valeria Sudano. Consequently Senator Riccardo Nencini ceases to belong to the Mixed Group, Senator Donatella Conzatti ceases to belong to the Forza Italia-Berlusconi Group President [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group]] and Senators Teresa Bellanova, Francesco Bonifazi, Eugenio Incipinini, Giuseppe Cucca, Davide Faraone, Laura Garavini, Nadia Ginetti, Leonardo Grimani, Ernesto Magorno, Mauro Marino, Matteo Renzi, Daniela Sbrollini, Valeria Sudano cease to belong to the Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u8	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to propose to the House that the items on the agenda should be reversed, so that we should deal with the rules for the exploitation of small agricultural products of local origin before the decree-law is converted into law. Mr President, before we proceed to the vote on the proposal, we ask for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u9	Colleagues, I would ask you to take a moment of pause to check the functioning of the electronic voting system with the change of the Groups. [[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Senator Calderoli, they're updating the system. I'm checking because they tell me you can't vote. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is no dispute. I have just read that there is a new Group and, therefore, there is an adaptation of the electronic system, which could not be done before the announcement in the Chamber of the constitution of the new Group. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator Lonardo]] There's nothing extraordinary about it. Have a moment of patience, so I'll check whether this happens or not. The system works.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) VOICES FROM THE PD GROUP. Bravo Calderoli! [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is I can't understand the reasons for so much enthusiasm. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). It didn't work! STEFANO (PD). Calderoli, relax. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Doesn't the cards work? Can any technician verify the issue of cards? STEFANO (PD). They voted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm checking if the cards didn't work. I'm calling a tech to verify. Be patient. We have just begun and it seems that today there is widespread nervousness. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It's not working. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Do they work? I ask everyone for a moment's patience. I am told that the system works and, therefore, the support for the request for verification of the quorum is not there. [[Comments of Senator Romeo]] MIRABELLI (PD). All right, next one. Cheaters.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u13	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, to Mr Briziarelli and other colleagues, the electronic system did not work even though they had pressed the button. We therefore call for a further check of support for the request for reversal. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u14	Senator Romeo, the parliamentary assistant who came to verify reported that the cards worked. (Senators De Bertoldi and La Russa report to the Presidency the malfunction of the electronic voting system). Your cards don't work, either? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, in fact, some of my group's colleagues were unable to make the system work during the vote. STEFANO (PD). You're outrageous! MIRABELLI (PD). But you're a vice president, La Russa! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). But I'm telling you objectively, it's the truth. So the vice presidents have to lie? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator La Russa, but this shows once again that my call for patience a moment ago to verify that everything worked was the object of a useless protest: I was making sure that the system, adapted to the new Group's constitution, was actually in operation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I therefore ask the Senator Secretary to check again whether the request for verification of the quorum is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) There are still people in line. MIRABELLI (PD). What are we gonna do? Close it, President! STEFANO (PD). Close the vote, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Senate has a quorum. VOICE FROM THE PD GROUP. One by one!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u15	I put to the vote the request that Senator Calderoli reverse the agenda. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u16	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1460. The rapporteur, Senator Piarulli, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u17	Mr President, the decree-law in conversion, which has been examined by the Commission in the case of justice, is intended to ensure the continuity of the functions of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data by extending the term of office of the respective members. The decree-law consists of two articles. Article 1, paragraph 1, in the current wording, provides that the President and the members of the College of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data continue to exercise their functions, limited to the acts of ordinary administration and to those indifferent and urgent, until the installation of the new College and in any case no later than October 7, 2019 (sixty days from the date of entry into force of the decree-law in conversion). In the course of the examination in the Commission, amendment 1.1 (text 2) was adopted unanimously, at my signature, with which it is expected that the College of the Data Protection Supervisor will continue to perform these functions until its establishment and in any case no later than 31 December 2019. It should be recalled that the current members of the College were elected in their Chamber and Senate sessions on June 6, 2012 and settled on June 19, 2012. The expiry of the Council of the Authority was therefore scheduled for 19 June 2019. In accordance with the opinion of the Council of State of 7 December 2010, No 5,388, the current College was allowed to operate under extension arrangements until 17 August 2019. The extension scheme may not last more than sixty days after the natural expiry of the term of office of the College. Given the improrogability of this term, it was considered necessary to introduce into the law a special provision of law in order to guarantee the functionality of the Guarantor for a further period of time, pending the renewal of the College. Precisely in order to prevent the interruption of the functions of the Guarantor, was adopted the decree-law in question, whose Article 2 provides in relation to the entry into force of the measure. In addition, the government amendment x1.1, which proposes the inclusion of a further paragraph in the single article of the draft conversion law, was also unanimously approved during the review. The new provision, also in order to avoid possible litigation, provides for the sanatoria of the effects of Decree-Law 11 July 2019, n. 64, fallen due to non-conversion. The latter decree-law intervened on the organic discipline of the government's special powers in the fields of defence and national security, as well as on activities of strategic importance in the fields of energy, transport and communications (so-called golden power), contained in Decree-Law No 21 of 15 March 2012. The aim of the rules was, in general, to strengthen the protection of national security in areas of strategic importance, giving the government more time and a wider range of information for the exercise of its powers. I would like to conclude by recalling, in a nutshell, the main measures provided for in the decree-law that has lapsed. It was also concerned with the extension of the scope of certain special powers (with reference to the power of veto by the Commission, it was also extended to the adoption of acts or operations by companies holding strategic assets); specific additions to the notification requirements for the exercise of special powers; amendments to the discipline of special powers in the field of 5G technologies to make the procedure substantially symmetrical with that for the exercise of special powers in the fields of defence and national security; with regard to transport and communications sectors, novels aimed at making the definition of an entity outside the European Union symmetrical with that laid down in the field of technology and specifying the criteria for determining whether a foreign investment could affect security or public order.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Senate Assembly is called upon to convert Decree-Law No 75 of 7 August 2019 on the extension of the functions of the College of the Data Protection Supervisor. It is worth remembering that the College consists of four members - two of whom are elected by the Chamber of Deputies and two by the Senate of the Republic - who, in turn, elect a President. The term of office of President and member shall be seven years and shall not be renewable. The current members were elected in 2012 and their term of office expired on 17 June 2019, without the Parliament, as required by Article 153 of Legislative Decree no. 196 of 30 June 2003, having carried out the renewal of the College. Consequently, in implementation of the State Council opinion No 5388 of 2010, the current members were automatically extended for a further 60 days, thus until 17 August 2019. The exceptional nature of the extension - it should be recalled here - was already justified by the Council of State because of the importance and irreplaceability of the functions entrusted to the College of the Authority. In fact, we are talking about an independent Authority, which is called upon to deal with one of the perhaps most sensitive aspects of people's lives: the protection of personal data, such as the protection of spheres of dignity and intimacy of the individual, which is becoming increasingly important, especially in relation to the development of the media and the dissemination of data through the Internet. The guaranteeing authority in this area is called to face unprecedented challenges, which represent real new frontiers of the protection of the identity and dignity of people. As the great Stefano Rodotà, pioneer in this matter and unforgettable master of rights, had to affirm a strict regulation of data protection, combined with the provision of appropriate guarantee tools, such as the college of whose extension we are discussing today, has the fundamental function of preventing the person from being considered a sort of mine in the open sky, where anyone can draw any information and thus build individual, family or group profiles, thus making him the subject of external powers, which can however falsify and build it in forms consistent with the needs of a society of surveillance, social selection, economic calculation. I give myself at this point, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a brief digression, to give some concrete examples. (Brusio). Mr President, there is a very impossible noise. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please, I had already chiseled, trying to draw attention. Please, a moment of attention. CIRINNA' (PD). Perhaps not all colleagues are present with the great function that the Authority plays at the moment. I give myself a brief digression to give some concrete examples of the importance of the functions and activity of the Guarantor. I personally remember with great satisfaction, in the first place, the very important intervention of the guarantor on one of the most hateful measures - I tell colleagues of the new majority - of the previous Government, that is, the decree by which the Minister of the Interior imposed the re-introduction of the diction of father and mother on the documents of identity of minors, thus cutting with the acceptance of the plurality of family experiences that characterize our society and exposing children and girls of this country to intolerable discriminations on the basis of the family in which they grow up. [[Comments of Senator Bishops]] A very heavy interference in the most intimate sphere of personal identity and the intimacy of personal and family life, which, as is typical of that type of political inculturation, ignores the plurality of life experiences and even consciously cuts them with the acceptance of ideology and obscurantism. Think, ladies and gentlemen, that there are girls and children in this country, who have two fathers and two mothers, thanks to the decisions of adoption in particular cases pronounced by juvenile judges with a judgment passed in court. Here, these girls and these children, because of that decree, have lost the right to obtain an identity document corresponding to their family life situation. Faced with that wretched measure, so invasive of the personal intimacy and detrimental to the dignity of people and all families, the voice of the Data Protection Supervisor has risen with great force, recalling the Government to the need to respect the fundamental rights of minor citizens in this matter. Since its opinion of 31 October 2018 and then in the subsequent statements of the guarantor Soro, the Authority has clarified and reiterated the numerous contrast profiles between the innovations brought by the decree and the protection of fundamental rights, such as confidentiality, data protection and finally the same personal identity, which - by consolidated jurisprudence of the Supreme Courts internal, European and international - represents an indispensable profile of the same dignity of people. This is a serious, dangerous and shameful decree, which I hope will soon be removed from our legal system and in this respect I am now making a request to Minister Lamorgese. I quote, again, another excellent work of the Authority, with reference to the law on cyberbullying - strongly wanted by the Democratic Party in the previous legislature - which first introduced an accelerated procedure before the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, which allows the parents of a minor victim of an act of cyberbullying to obtain enhanced and rapid protection by the Authority, through the adoption of injunctions and prescriptive measures against the data controller or the operator of the website or social media, also in cases of multiple communication and dissemination of personal data suitable to reveal the sexual life of the affected person. Finally, a similar major innovation is contained in the draft law deposited by the Democratic Party, which contains measures to counter the phenomenon of the so-called revenge porn, only partially transposed by the new legislation on the so-called red code. Our hope is, in fact, that after the approval of the criminal case in the so-called red code, we can introduce, with our colleagues of majority, a more precise discipline precisely on the work of the Guarantor, providing for a more active role in similar cases. Colleagues, you will excuse this long digression, but it seemed fundamental to me to highlight the extreme importance of the Data Protection Authority in the overall system of protection of the fundamental rights of the individual. On the date of entry into force of the decree, which we are called today to convert into law, the organ had not yet been reinstated and, therefore, the government of the time considered to arrange a further extension of the College in office. Colleagues, I conclude by saying that we cannot hide the extreme urgency of Parliament's taking responsibility. We cannot extend beyond the term of office of the existing members: we cannot extend the legitimacy of the Authority itself. Rather it is necessary to put all the necessary political action in place in order to arrive quickly, very quickly, at the reinstatement of the College. As I have tried to demonstrate in my speech, we are dealing with a fundamental garrison of protection of the rights of people, their most intimate sphere and their own dignity. We cannot allow ourselves, as representatives of the people, to stand by and decide not to decide, as Parliament has done too many times. When the rights are at stake, the responsibility of politics cannot be lost, but rather must be exercised with the awareness that people expect us first of all to recognise and protect fundamental rights. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u20	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u21	Mr President, on behalf of Brothers of Italy I have tabled Amendment 1.3 (text 2) calling for the deadline to be reopened for only fifteen days, also for the submission of applications as a member of the College of the Guarantor. We have put forward this proposal because, as we all know, the legal deadline originally laid down expired on 19 June of the current year. As a result of the decree-law under consideration and the amendment that the Government has tabled and that will certainly be approved, in fact the College will be extended to 31 December of this year. We all know that from June this year to today (figure us in December) the entire political scenario has changed; so it may well be that those who in June had no interest in presenting the candidacy, because they were engaged to the Government, because with other roles in the majority or because anyway with a very different perspective than what happened then a few weeks ago, with the birth of the new Government PD-5 Stars, today could instead have that interest to apply. Widening the audience of candidates is in the interest of democracy, institutions and the quality of the proposal itself for the composition of this college and would not delay by a single minute the procedure in progress, since however today the Senate will decide to arrive at the end of the year. For this reason, we insist on the adoption of this amendment, because it is in everyone's interest that it be adopted. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Perosino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to comment on the amendment concerning the VAT exemption for driving schools. We know that the European Court's ruling has posed a problem with our driving schools, imposing a VAT system, which the Revenue Agency has interpreted as retroactive until 2014, for those who do driving school lessons. This would mean a huge problem for the whole category, given the problems of VAT retroactivity. Amendment 1.0.100 therefore calls for the VAT system to be extended until 31 December 2019, so that there is time to find solutions to this problem. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u23	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u24	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u25	Mr President, I welcome Amendment 1.1 (text 2). I am against Amendments 1.2, 1.3 (text 2) and 1.0.100. On the agenda, I shall return to the Government. I am also in favour of amendment x1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u26	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. I therefore reiterate the favourable opinion on Amendments 1.1 (text 2) and x1.1 and against Amendments 1.2, 1.3 (text 2) and 1.0.100. With regard to the agenda G1,100, the Government's opinion is favourable provided that the proposer accepts the following rewording of the commitment: "It commits the Government to consider whether to address the issue in the first useful measure".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u29	CALIENDO (FI-BP). Mr President, I formally withdraw amendment 1.2, which had already been withdrawn from the Commission because we agreed to amend amendment 1.1 (text 2) which was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u32	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, given the contrary opinion of the Government and the rapporteur on Amendment 1.3 (text 2), we would be prepared to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u33	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to express her opinion on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u34	Mr President, I turn to the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u35	Mr President, Senator La Russa, since we have a very short time to proceed quickly with the new composition of the body, an agenda that asks the Government to assess whether there are conditions I think it can be accepted, provided the wording is: "to assess the appropriateness of "."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u38	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I cannot understand why undersecretary Misiani came out of the Chamber just when we are talking about the VAT exemption for self-schools, or at least the driving lessons for the previous five years, confirming that the government wants to go in the direction of ensuring that there is an interpretative rule that applies this rule from 2020, i.e. tomorrow and not immediately. In addition, the Minister for Relations with Parliament today confirmed to me that there was at least your willingness to accept an agenda on this issue. Instead, we find ourselves in this House with an opinion against the amendment which says exactly what Secretary Misiani said and, finally, rather than at least making political commitment on the agenda, it is said to consider the opportunity to address this issue in the first useful measure. I therefore ask the Government at least to confirm the political commitment that the agenda envisages. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, I would like to address the representatives of the Government. The Minister for Relations with Parliament, whom I requested, told me that there was the Government's intention not to approve the amendment because it was intended to deal with the subject during the budgetary manoeuvre (in fact, it was an interpretative rule in my opinion that could already be dealt with on this occasion), but that at least there was a commitment to approve the agenda. But either the agenda is a political commitment, which is what we are asking for, or it is not: I am sorry, but the wording "considering the opportunity to address the issue to the first useful measure" is not a commitment, but simply a way of approving something that is basically a waste of paper. Evaluating the matter is an account. On the agenda, the Government's commitment is the same that the Undersecretary Misiani publicly declared, first with a post on Facebook and then through the press. So, since undersecretary Misiani said so, please at least confirm the agenda as we have written it, which is the confirmation of an interpretative rule. I therefore call on you to reflect, otherwise politically you must also take the responsibility of rejecting political commitment before the whole world of self-schools. I understand this, even if the amendment could already be voted on, but I would ask the majority forces to at least confirm what your Undersecretary said; at least that, otherwise the Undersecretary says one thing and you in this House do exactly another. I repeat, at least confirm this, otherwise it will mean that we will ask for the vote, we will go "under" but political responsibility on this subject before all the self-schools you take it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u39	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u40	Mr President, the Government confirms that assessing the opportunity to deal with this issue is not a piece of paper, but a commitment that the Government takes on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u41	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.1 (text 2) tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been withdrawn. Senator Balboni, would you be willing to turn Amendment 1.3 (text 2) into an agenda?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u42	Yes, Mr President, and if I may, I would like to read the text: In view of the extension referred to in paragraph 1, the Senate commits the Government to evaluate the opportunity to extend the deadline for the submission of applications as part of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data referred to in the notice of 19 April 2019, published pursuant to article 153, paragraph 1, of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 156, on the fifteenth day after the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree, stopping remaining the validity of applications already sent by 19 May 2019 That would be the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u43	I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u44	Mr President, the wording is fine because, if I have heard correctly, it commits the Government to assess the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u45	There is a problem here, because for the reopening of the terms the government can also say its opinion, but it is clear that this, as the law says, is the result of an agreement between the President of the Senate and the President of the House. All is well, however, we must also take into account what the law prescribes. One thing was to pass the amendment with a reopening of the terms, another account is instead an agenda that should commit not the Government, but the Presidents of the House and Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u48	GIORGIS, State Secretary for Justice. Mr President, the Government is opposed to reopening the terms and is particularly opposed to transferring this responsibility to the Presidents of the House and the Senate. I imagined the willingness on an agenda as a willingness of the Government to consider amending the draft law that we are voting on today, but the opinion on the amendment is against it. Furthermore, if the agenda is understood as a commitment that puts the decision back to the Presidents of the House and the Senate, then - I am sorry - the opinion is also opposed on an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u49	Undersecretary Giorgis, excuse me but you cannot be against it, because the law prescribes that it is faculty, indeed obligation of the Presidents of the House and Senate to be able to provide for this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, the Government can only say that it is in favour of an eventuality that is then put back by law. It is not a faculty, but it is the law that prescribes it. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u50	Mr President, more specifically: the government is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u51	Then, the government is against the agenda in its formulation aimed at committing it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u54	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, like the rest of this House, we understood that the Government's opinion was favourable. So if you now say that you are against it, the wording is what the President correctly told us: it commits the President of the Senate or the President of the House, or, if you like, both Presidents of the Chambers to reopen the terms. Then, the government may be against the agenda, but at this point the text is that of an agenda that commits the Presidents of the Chambers. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u55	President La Russa, the Government cannot commit the Presidents of the House and Senate, for an autonomy that exists between Chamber, Senate and Government. The Government can, in my opinion, all in all express a general favour of the possibility of reopening as an agenda, then leaving the faculty to those who by right can do it to reopen the terms: that's all. It seems to me that there may be a general consensus for a reopening, but the government cannot commit the Presidents of the House and Senate, as it is logical.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u58	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I simply want to say, perhaps in order to help carry out this debate, that your words have been sufficiently clear. You said in fact that in those terms that agenda was not acceptable, because it was not a commitment to the government. It was specified by the Government that, if that agenda had been considered as a commitment to redo a rule, the Government could assess its appropriateness. But an agenda that commits someone who cannot be engaged, as you have already mentioned, because it is up to you and the President of the House, is simply not acceptable. Therefore, I would ask you to close the debate here on the change of the amendment to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u59	I'm not closing because I want to know if there's a chance of reformulation. We can put it aside to see if there is a general possibility that the government will commit itself to this. It is not necessary for him to commit himself to something that must happen tomorrow, since the deadline for renewal of members is extended to 31 December, but he certainly cannot commit the Presidents of the House and Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u62	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, since the Government has not understood that it is up to the Presidents of the Senate and the House to give a binding opinion on a prerogative that does not belong to it and on which it should have returned to the House, we withdraw the draft agenda. Therefore, the power of the Presidents of the Senate and the Chamber remains free - no law forbids it - to evaluate or not the reopening of the ban.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u63	With regard to agenda G1,100, the Government's opinion was in favour of rewording the last part, in the sense of assessing the appropriateness. However, it seemed to me that Senator Romeo did not agree with this reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u66	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we do not accept a rewording which, as proposed, means nothing. We reaffirm that we are dealing with a sector at very high risk, because we are talking about half a billion euros of what would be VAT due from 2014 to today and about 110,000 euros for each school. This would mean the closure of all self-schools. We would have been willing to withdraw the amendment provided that there was a political commitment from the Government, as announced by the Undersecretary Misiani. Honestly, we do not understand why the Minister for Relations with Parliament had expressed himself in favour of the agenda and then in this House not only the opinion on the amendment is contrary - I had already understood that - but that amendment becomes an agenda and, basically, a fried air. That is not the commitment he had made. We start the relationship between the new majority and the new minority badly. I think that this way we cannot go in the right direction. The advice I give you is that rather than voting against an amendment, with all the controversy that may arise, it would be more just and correct for you to vote on an agenda which essentially subscribes to a commitment already made by the Undersecretary of your Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I don't have to explain these things to you, since until yesterday you were in opposition and you introduced him here. I therefore appeal to the leaders of the 5 Star Movement and the Democratic Party, asking for a supplement and a deepening to convince the Government to accept the agenda, just as we have written it with the commitment; in this case we are very willing to withdraw the amendment. The reformulation, in fact, as proposed, absolutely cannot go well because it means everything and nothing, but above all it denies what a member of your Government has said. I understand that there are some difficulties inside, but it is not possible to start in this way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u69	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to confirm that undersecretary Castelli, an hour ago in the Commission, also confirmed his commitment to continue the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u70	We take note of that. Undersecretary, Senator Rivolta has just said that a different opinion has been expressed in the Commission. Do you maintain what you said earlier about the request for reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u71	May I ask you, Mr President, to suspend work for two minutes? [[Comments and ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u72	I'm suspending the session for ten minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 5.29 p.m. and resumed at 5.44 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u73	At the end of the examination of the measure, I will convene the Conference of Leaders. The sitting will therefore be closed. The vote on the calendar will take place tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u74	Undersecretary, we had remained on the agenda question G1,100. I'm asking you if there are any new things, even positive ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u75	Mr President, the Government, confirming its intention to address the issue raised, amends its previous proposal for reformulation. The opinion is in favour, provided that the proposer accepts the following rewording: "Recommends the Government to address the issue quickly".
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u76	Senator Romeo, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u77	President, I would like to thank the Government and the majority forces for the attention they have paid, also because the League has wanted to further highlight this fundamental issue. With the commitment that the topic will be addressed in the times and in the ways that the Government considers most useful, we accept the reformulation and, therefore, we are in favour of the agenda as reworded by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u80	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as one of the signatories, I welcome the fact that there is a favourable opinion but, because of the importance of this matter, I would ask you to put the agenda in question to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u81	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u84	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as I had announced, in the face of a commitment on the agenda, I shall withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u85	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment x1.1, tabled by the Commission in Article 1 of the draft law on conversion. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u88	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise to announce that the Brothers of Italy Group voted in favour of this measure. We regret that the amendment we proposed was not accepted as such. In the end we decided to withdraw it and turn it into an agenda, of which the Government has understood the meaning, and we trust that this can lead it, of course with the agreement and consent of the Presidents of the Chambers, to re-evaluate the question of reopening the terms, in view of the fact that until December 31 of this year there will be all the time to carry out the required obligations, without causing any delay, even if the terms were reopened for fifteen days. With this wish, as already indicated, our vote on the measure will therefore be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u91	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer to the arguments already put forward in my speech in general, and I repeat the Democratic Party's vote in favour of this measure, with the recommendation to Parliament that a decision be made soon. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u94	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I take the floor to first and foremost agree with the content of the speech that was made at the general debate - during which I was unfortunately unable to speak - by my colleague, Mrs Cirinna, who outlined the tasks of the College of the Data Protection Supervisor. I also feel obliged to thank the College of the Guarantor who has almost finished the exercise of his duties, as well as the offices and officials who have joined the College in these years of activity, because they have been of great comfort. Nobody thinks I am doing this on bell tower issues: I really thank you very much because in more than one circumstance we have been given a very important help in the carrying out of our legislative activity. So, of course, by announcing the vote in favour of the measure by my Group, I would also like to express the hope that the new members of the College will be appointed in a very short time because, if this delay were further extended, we would probably also be in a position to delegitimise the activity. I would remind you that the College of the Guarantor, under the extension scheme, deals only with the ordinary administration and matters of urgency. It would therefore perhaps be useful to try to complete the appointments as quickly as possible, precisely because of the importance that the College of the Guarantor is also important in the context of our parliamentary activity. I repeat once again the vote in favour also by the Italian Group Viva-PSI. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u97	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will be in favour of this referral. A few small points, however, are required and I would like to go into the substance of the privacy legislation. I do not know whether colleagues agree, but we still have some doubts about this legislation. In fact, it is not given to understand why this legislation, decidedly cumbersome, has led to a considerable increase in the obligations on companies and professionals, often overworked to respond to the privacy issue according to the legislation, as well as a corresponding exponential increase in costs. On the other hand - in our opinion - this same legislation leaves considerable room for action and substantial shadow cones for all - for example - the right to the privacy of minors. I think that each one of you here, who has experience of children or grandchildren, knows that our children and younger grandchildren run on online platforms, such as - for example - Facebook, Twitter and others, sowing personal data on the web without any protection and control. Serious and balanced legislation on this point should perhaps require - on the one hand - a lightening of the bureaucratic burden for small businesses, self-employed workers and professionals and, on the other hand, much stricter control of multinationals who know perfectly how to use personal data. The first hope I make is therefore that Parliament and the Government, within the framework of their competences - given that this is a regulation that comes largely to us from the European Union, will do what is necessary to rebalance these aspects. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a merit assessment that I would like to make with regard to the work of the Guarantor as such. The Authorities - I remind especially the friends of the Democratic Party, since from there comes the current Guarantor for the protection of personal data - are not a pulpit for the political struggle, but should, at least in theory, be a service to the citizens. It is not acceptable that the post of guarantor of any Authority - we do not care what - is, in essence, a prize to be given to a politician who has worked well for a party or, worse still, a cemetery where to bring elephants. We are convinced that the Authorities should be truly independent. This independence, however, in the current office - fortunately it cannot be renewed, even if it is extended until 31 December - is not given. On two occasions the so-called Privacy Supervisor played a purely political role, displacing the role of the guarantor of Italian citizens and wearing those of supporter of the Democratic Party. A case of this kind has been admirably reminded precisely by Senator Cirinna. According to the Guarantor it would not have been legitimate that obvious, normal and absolutely protecting modification introduced by Minister Salvini, who has done nothing but comply with the law, introducing in the documents relative to the minors the correct statement of "father" and "mother". I remind myself - I am sure colleagues know perfectly well - that the only way to have two dads, without paranormal phenomena that have not yet manifested themselves on planet Earth, is to resort to the practice of the uterus for rent. I always remind myself and not my colleagues, who certainly know perfectly well, that the uterus for rent is sanctioned by our law as a crime, to be precise as a crime, and the penalty for imprisonment is provided. We are talking about a course that constitutes a crime and not only. This is in fact a dramatic course: the Constitutional Court has defined the use of the uterus in rent which is seriously detrimental to the freedom and dignity of women and capable of undermining human relations in the depths. It is absurd that this practice should be punished criminally on one side of the order - as it must be - and that on the other side of the civil order should instead be legitimized, thus endorsing the selfishness of two people evidently full of money. This cannot and must not be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Data Protection Supervisor must protect the privacy of the citizens; he must not go to ideological battles to challenge a decision taken by the Minister perfectly in line with our legislation. And do not make me, please, the reference to the adoptions law, because the same adoptions law, which - I always remind myself - is Law No 184 of 1983, expressly prohibits adoption to same-parental couples. Therefore, nothing that has been said by the Privacy Supervisor is consistent with the law and with this argument, saves the obvious need to make a "brand" - as they say in political jargon - to the friends of the Democratic Party. For the truth then the current Guarantor has thought well to bissare its political involvement, so much to contest the proposal of the Government a few months ago to put the cameras in the kindergartens, strongly supported by the League and also by the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Privacy Supervisor has invented that, rather than protecting the safety of children who are subject to abuse in family homes - we have seen well what happened to Bibbiano and its surroundings - it is better to protect the privacy of the worker; therefore, in the family home and in the kindergarten the camera should not be placed. Well, I would like it to be clear - and I hope Parliament will say a final word about this - that, if we have to choose between the safety of our children or the privacy of social workers, we know which one to protect. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). What does that have to do with anything? PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). So ultimately, Mr President, the political movement that I represent this evening (Lega-Salvini Premier-PSd'Az) will vote in favour of this measure, with the hope, declared and directed in this same Chamber, that the members of the next College of Privacy Supervisors will not be chosen in the context of elephant cemeteries or among the MPs of the Democratic Party with years of honored service, but will be chosen among people really capable, prepared, competent and for their independence and personal preparation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u100	MODENA (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the calls that have been made to the work of the Guarantor. In addition to the issues concerning the extension, I would like to remind you that the most significant political fact in the last year and a half was the fine of 50,000 euros that the Guarantor wanted to impose on the platform "Rousseau." I also say this to my colleagues in the League: I understand that some things may have come to light, but the real point, what I believe will require the greatest balance - and we are convinced that there will be - in the appointment of the next body, is the following. The current Garante, PD or not PD - frankly we know what the situation is, but on this I will come back later - not only inflicted 50,000 euros fine on the "Rousseau" platform, having transgressed to a number of issues, but also imposed a set of conditions that I would like colleagues to remember. At the time the Movimento 5 Stars rose against the Democratic Party, as the Guarantor was the expression of that party; so let's put things right for a moment. [[Comments of Senator Bottici]] What did the Guarantor say to the "Rousseau" platform, among the various technical things, after a series of checks done? He said that there are problems with regard not only to data confidentiality, but also to the authenticity of the results that are explained with regard to voting. We will vote in favour of the extension, but we do so because we believe that a great deal of attention should be paid to these appointments, because the task of the Privacy Supervisor is important for so many reasons. Someone has remembered them: if you go to read the report of the Guarantor of 2018, you will see that the interventions that we have been interested in the world today, with reference not only to minors, but also - for example - to privacy and the right to report. The Guarantor spoke clearly saying that the morbid way in which people are "slammed" on the pages of the newspapers or on the news, even before an investigation of the truth was made, harms privacy. We also remember that the Guarantor intervened on the issue of electronic invoicing, wanted by the previous Government for the violation that there was with reference to the data, especially of a medical nature. The Authority also intervened with reference to the cyber-captors, the so-called trojans, who are installed in the phone and who can find out practically everything, after which in the newspapers maybe the news of an extra-marital relationship that, with the investigations, had absolutely nothing to do with it. The problem that arises, therefore, is not only and exclusively that of not making it a cemetery of elephants. I believe that this period of time should be used to choose subjects who understand the delicacy of the task. Many times there is talk of media use in vain, but I want to say strongly that the regulation of the Rousseau platform is very important. Let me tell you about the last case of use of the platform and the distorted way in which news was given to the press, that is the case of my Region, Umbria. In Umbria, on the Rousseau platform, the so-called regional... BOTTICS (M5S) were held. What are we talking about? MODENA (FI-BP). ...in which they participated, according to the 5 Stars blog, about 800 people, and then held a vote on a fantomatic civic pact, which interested instead all members of the platform and registered about 60 percent of votes in favor. BOTTICS (M5S). What are we talking about? MODENA (FI-BP). A 60 percent yes, therefore, with the 5 Star Movement has completely imploded in Umbria [[Comments from the M5S Group]] and appears every day in the newspapers, only and exclusively because what has been said does not fall into the truth, even in a somewhat false way. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] On the one hand it has been said that the members of the platform had voted, but not specifying that they were the members of all Italy, seen and considered that those of Umbria are only 800. I believe that today the Privacy Supervisor must also and above all take into account the political manipulation of data [[Applause from the FI-BP and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] , which we see daily and which I also see in my region. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I believe that the friends of the League, whom I have finally found in the same "barrack," should see the issue of the Privacy Supervisor with reference to what happened when the fine of 50,000 euros was imposed. The question of mothers or dads, or what Salvini does or says, does not arise: here is the question of an organism that must protect and protect what is now an essential asset and, if it has to intervene, it must prevent the children from being forced to pay. The costs of privacy are in fact a beastly thing for companies, for businesses and for those who work, while they become something that is exceeded equally by those who have economic availability and who perhaps do not care about privacy issues. Privacy is one of the biggest economic and social disparities in this country: it is an increase for children, while it is not considered by adults. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Welcome then to the extension. I am sure it will be well used, because it is a key point of our society and of the current political phase. I therefore vote in favour, but I am well aware of what we are going to talk about. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u103	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Data Protection Supervisor is an independent administrative authority established by Law No 675 of 31 December 1996 (so-called Privacy Act) and subsequently governed by Legislative Decree No 196 of 30 June 2003 (the Personal Data Protection Code), as last amended by Legislative Decree No 101 of 10 August 2018. The Supervisor shall also be the Supervisory Authority designated for the implementation of the General Regulation of the European Union No 679 of 2016 on the protection of personal data. These are functions and competences that are as important as they are sensitive to the lives of citizens at the time of digital transformation and immateriality. We remind ourselves and the future members of the College elected by Parliament that, for the next seven years of office, they will check that the processing of personal data is in conformity with the regulations, with the laws, with respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, taking measures, examining complaints, signaling to Parliament the need to adopt legislative acts adapting to the astonishing speed of technological innovations in this area. Not least, they will participate in the activities of the European Union and international sector in relation to Europol, Schengen and other information systems. Decree-Law No 75 of 7 August 2019 contains urgent measures to ensure the continuity of the functions of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data, extending the term of office of the President and his/her members. It is recalled that, on the expiry of 19 June 2019 of the College of the Authority, it was allowed to operate under extension arrangements until 17 August 2019, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State of 7 December n. 5388. The system of extension may not last more than 60 days from the natural expiry of the term of office of the College. It should also be pointed out that in that opinion the Council of State, acting on the interpretation of Article 1 of Law No 239 of 23 August 2004, stressed the 60-day period provided for therein as not further extendable. In the light of the present state of affairs, therefore, the decree-law under consideration also intervened in order to prevent the interruption of the functions of the Guarantor. For all these reasons and for the work done in the Justice Commission and today in the Assembly, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u104	Colleagues, my previous communication was made thinking that the discussion of this measure ended around 7 p.m. As there are no further requests for an explanation of vote, I propose, after the vote on the single article of the draft law under consideration, that we continue our work until 7 p.m. when the Conference of the Leaders is convened. Not making any comments, so it remains established. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 7 August 2019, n. 75, introducing urgent measures to ensure the continuity of the functions of the Board of the Guarantor for the protection of personal data. Sanatoria of the effects of the Decree-Law of 11 July 2019, n. 64. The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u105	The next item is the debate on the drawing-up of draft law No 728. The rapporteur, Senator Bergesio, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure under consideration, approved unanimously in the Agriculture Commission, aims to enhance the so-called small local productions that have become a consolidated reality in the territories of the Veneto regions since 2008 and Friuli-Venezia Giulia since 2011, identifying a simple path to allow farmers and farmers to process and sell in the local area small quantities of food produced within the farm or fish, respecting health and hygiene, safeguarding the typicality and local tradition and also providing an important integration to the income of operators. Italy is the country of biodiversity, of the thousand agri-food products, of quality and excellence, both in production and in processing. This proposal is born precisely from the consideration that we characterize ourselves, as well as for the variety and beauty of the territory, also due to the presence of numerous small typical food productions of quality and the fact that consumers show increasing interest in local products coming from short production chains, or rather very short. This measure has the great ambition to regulate the issue of the valorization and sale of small local agri-food productions in order to ensure that those who produce can, approaching the consumer, sell directly guaranteeing also and above all the quality of the product. The focus is therefore on the quality of local products which are more and more consumer-controlled and fresher. It therefore seems appropriate to encourage the spread of products - on the one hand - by ensuring a simplified and economically sustainable way for farms or fish to produce and sell these products; on the other hand, by providing adequate controls to ensure the genuineness and health of these products in the interests of consumers. The development of local agriculture involves the development of the territory; the valorization of tradition; the direct knowledge of producers; the collaboration between producer and final consumer; the possibility to visit and control the companies directly, in addition to the recovery of those knowledge and those flavors, of the typical tastes of the local food and traditional recipes, thus giving a chance to our farmers, who are heroes, and to our consumers an important tool to promote, know and enhance the products of our territory. The evolution of consumer demand towards a greater sensitivity of territorial products is an element of greater competitiveness within our country and therefore will certainly produce an added value. The consumption of local products is also accompanied by a symbolic value, a cultural value, identity, increasingly felt in the diet, which reflects in its extraordinary variety, the geographical variety of our country that has different climates, soils and productions throughout the peninsula. To many different landscapes correspond as many food and wine landscapes that Italians learn more and more to know, appreciate and value. The aim of this proposal is, beyond that of enhancing and promoting the consumption of local products, also that of supporting micro and small enterprises and territorial economies of a family nature. Often, our productions are put in difficulty by the ruthless competition of the global market, preventing the consumer from knowing the autochthonous productions. Our country is also rich in various techniques of product processing, whose denomination even varies from Province to Province, from Municipality to Municipality. A clear territorial economy is therefore essential, and this is precisely what this transparent proposal is about. The measure under discussion does not want the farmer or fisherman to become traders, not least because this additional commitment takes time away from primary activity (and the other categories do it well); activities that many times is the passion of a lifetime. But you want to give him an extra opportunity to get more income support from his business. The present proposal therefore requires the sale to take place strictly for limited quantities, within clearly defined ceilings, and in the local area (Province of production or Conterminous Provinces). Without prejudice to all the European and national provisions in force in the field of sanitation, labelling and special arrangements for agri-food products (PGI, PDO, DOC, DOCG, organic). The measure also provides, with a view to loyal collaboration between the State, Regions and territorial authorities and respecting constitutional powers, that a special ministerial regulation sets general criteria and guidelines for the products of small local productions, valid throughout the national territory, leaving then to the Regions and autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, on the basis of their competences, to issue the specific discipline for their territories. As a further guarantee, the draft regulation provides for the prior acquisition of the agreement in the Permanent State-Regions Conference and the opinion of the parliamentary committees responsible for the matter. We consider it necessary to approve this bill because it continues on the road indicated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, led in the last fourteen months by the Minister Centinario, of the rediscovery, of the valorization and promotion of the various Italian agri-food realities. The first thing to make our agriculture known and reborn above all is to bring it to know not only in the world but, above all, of the Italians themselves, in a virtuous way, enhancing the Italian agri-food sector. Mr President, I would ask for permission to attach the written text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting in order to optimize the timing of the work of this House in relation to the content of the individual articles. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u107	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. The government representative does not intend to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u110	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the Senators of the LEU Group will vote in favour of the draft law before us, which, in addition to establishing the brand of small local productions, carries out in particular an important operation which concerns - on the one hand - the qualification of the production of small farmers and, on the other hand, the introduction of certain bureaucratic facilities for small businesses. We too had filed a bill concerning the establishment of the trademark and in our case we were talking about a farm product. Certainly on the introduction of brands you must be very careful in order to avoid confusion. But certainly we must ensure that it is not just a façade operation and actually represents the advantage for those farms that are mostly very small in the internal areas and that they intend, precisely, to market in their own territory the exclusively farm productions. Obviously, the measure refers not only to products, but also to the entire processing cycle: it is and can represent an important tool and an opportunity to qualify the productions of small farmers and above all to facilitate their knowledge on the local market. For this reason, it is necessary to be able to handle the brands well in order to avoid too much confusion. The simplifications and the introduction of bureaucratic facilities for the use - for example - of business premises or home as a production laboratory are also positive. Today, the possibility is burdened by a series of hygiene and sanitation often unsustainable for the small farmer, who over the years - I would like to say - have in fact been an obstacle to being able to continue the production of some very niche and traditional products. The success of this work - I say this to the rapporteur and to all those who have contributed to the drafting of the bill in the Agriculture Commission - is largely linked to the ability that will then demonstrate the regions and the Ministry of Agriculture policies to properly advertise the brand, to avoid confusion and abuse, and above all to make it recognised to consumers. It is a decisive issue because - I repeat - we are already full of quality marks of all kinds, often difficult to understand for the consumer himself. It is an important proposal because it deals with our agriculture: in Italy there is not a single agriculture, there are many agricultures that, fortunately, are absolutely linked to the territory, to the local identities - and to these must be even more connected - and therefore can also help the survival of small farms. However, this certainly does not solve, as the rapporteur knows perfectly well, a crisis that still remains deep, on which a number of instruments must be put in place, and which concerns a little the whole agricultural system. We also need a policy that is absolutely determined in this respect by the Government for internal and marginal areas. These realities are strategic for the country's environment. In these days and in these hours, while the Climate Summit is taking place in New York, let us remember that in our home intervention and preservation against abandonment and failure, for the enhancement and revitalization of internal areas, is an absolutely decisive battle also for the fight against climate change. In the realities of the internal and marginal areas, which are in some way, even a little 'for our landscapes, for our culture and for our traditions, perhaps true Italy, the abandonment of lands, villages and countries continues, with absolutely heavy costs for all of the community and that we pay everyone. This does not allow us to make sure that the country can really take a big step forward. In conclusion, we will vote strongly in favour of the measure, but it is necessary to accompany it with strong action by the Regions and above all a strong action by the Investment Government on the many of our farms: on small farms, small farms and especially on the internal areas that are really at risk of abandonment. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Nencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u111	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u113	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, exactly a year ago in the Committee on Agriculture, Agriculture and Rural Development, the process began for the approval of the measure before us today, with the aim of enabling the many farmers and fish farmers to increase their income by producing and selling small quantities of products from their farms or farms. Today, finally, after so many referrals he arrives to the Senate for final approval. A bill of common sense, shared and unanimously voted in the Commission, bearing witness to the fact that, on the one hand, the measure is shared but, on the other hand, that there are no ideological fences when it comes to legislation on the substance of agricultural and agri-food productions. Colleagues, it's no small thing. Despite changing majorities, I hope that the spirit that led the work in the Commission this year and a half will remain the same. That is why I also take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues in the Commission for their work and, in particular, President Vallardi for the way he has played his role so far, which I hope he will continue to play in the future. Certainly on more general issues we have different opinions and on some positions even distant, but we will continue with the attitude had until today. We shall vote and support all the acts that we consider to be valid, while we shall oppose those which we consider unnecessary for the agricultural sector. In this regard, we hope that a meeting will shortly be held with the new Minister Bellanova - whom I unfortunately do not see in this House - to understand what the agricultural policy of this new government will be. We did not like some statements read in the press, concerning the neo-minister's willingness to open to GMOs and the total appreciation of CETA (Comprehensive economic and trade agreement). Let us be clear: Brothers of Italy is in principle in favour of free trade agreements, but on condition that they protect the Made in Italy and agree to our nation. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] I believe that on both issues, therefore, there must be an in-depth debate in order to take a better view: we cannot launch hypotheses or conclusions in the press without first passing through the appropriate places of institutional discussion. But let us return to the substance of the measure that we are going to vote on today. It is a measure of common sense and, if well applied and well declined in the various territorial realities, will allow small farmers and fishers not only to increase their income, but also to preserve products particularly typical of the territory not reproduced on an industrial scale. All this will allow to protect the traditions and identity of many territories, especially mountainous and disadvantaged, and to maintain products and dishes of the agro-food that represent the specificity and beauty of our nation. The aim of the measure is therefore to promote local products with the creation of a specific indication on the label that will be based on some fundamental principles: the hygiene-sanitary safety of the product; its limited production, aimed at increasing the income; a marketing of the product only in the local area and deriving exclusively from the direct production of the raw materials; the possibility to market only typical products well identified. The whole meaning of the measure is well summarized in paragraph 2 of Article 1, where it is stated that by the diction PPL (small local productions) "the primary or processed agricultural products of animal or vegetable origin, intended for human consumption, obtained on a farm or fish, intended, in small quantities in absolute terms, for administration and direct sale to the final consumer within the province in which the place of production is located and the provinces contermini". This is therefore the ratio of the law. The subsequent articles then decline some aspects of implementation, scope, labelling, the establishment of the PPL mark, rules for immediate consumption and direct sale, general requirements applicable to premises and equipment, including structural requirements for premises intended for activities. Important for the promotion, moreover, is the establishment of a dedicated section on the institutional site of the Ministry. I would like to focus on two fundamental aspects for the success of the aims of the law: training and control. The application and implementation of Article 9 on training courses will be important. The ratio of the law is well explained in paragraph 3 of the same article: The aim of the training courses is to acquire knowledge of good hygiene practices in the processing, processing and sale of PPLs. You will allow me a simple example: this means that if a farmer has some fruit trees and wants to produce small quantities of jam he can do so using normal cooking pots in a normal kitchen, without investing thousands of euros in specific equipment, provided he uses good hygiene practices that protect the health of the consumer. In short, it is a matter of using the common sense of the mother and the father of the family combined with the rural culinary tradition to implement good practices: forgive me the simplification of the example, but it was necessary to explain the concept immediately. As a result of the timely application of Article 9 on training courses, I would also like to mention the 10, which defines control activities. Given that it is essential to protect the food safety of consumers, it is necessary to raise awareness among the inspection bodies, in the sense that it is necessary to explain to the operators of these bodies the ratio of the law. I am referring to a ratio that wants to introduce a production methodology based on the good practices of rural cuisine (forgive me also in this case simplification): it is like controlling products made by grandmother or grandfather, and this is a difficult enough rock to overcome, because those who will have to control the small local productions will have to change the approach with which they have acted until today. On this point it will be indispensable to take advantage of the experience that the Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia regions have acquired for some years already thanks to a regional law that goes in this direction. In summary, therefore, the text focuses on training for the use of good practice and at the same time establishing a new approach for those who have to implement the controls. If the two do not converge, we risk frustrating the purpose of this law. Having said that, I do not wish to go any further on the detailed explanation of the measure, which was also well explained by the rapporteur, for what has been said and for the work done in the Commission over the past 12 months, which - I repeat - have seen the contribution and overall sharing of all the Commissioners, I announce the positive vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group. [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u114	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u116	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, the PD Group supports this measure and the decision to allow so many small businesses to manage certain local productions in a simplified way (in a context of great quality assurance, offered by collaboration with the local health world) and with a brand that characterizes them, as well as to offer many small farmers and producers the opportunity to make the most of their productions. We believe that this is a positive fact, as has already been said in other interventions, especially taking into account the territorial context in which we are inserted, made of many internal areas, mountain, hilly and foothills, which with the text under discussion can really express small productions but absolutely significant for consumers and for the economic keeping of these companies and these territories. We shall therefore vote in favour of the measure under discussion also because of the climate of great cooperation experienced in the Commission in its work on this measure, which, incidentally, meant that of the thirty amendments tabled by us all were either adopted or absorbed into other amendments. We believe it is a significant figure of how we should always work on measures that we consider useful for the territory. As mentioned above, the text gives companies the opportunity to pack particular productions, with administrative derogations and simplification under the control of ASL. There will be labelling and promotion of these products through a basket that will then be guaranteed by a brand that will be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism. All this in an area of absolute compatibility with the protection of designations of origin, protected geographical indications, traditional specialities guaranteed and Community regulations supervising the matter, such as Regulation No 852 of 2004 and all others. They are guaranteed by specific guidelines that will be introduced by a decree the structural requirements, the guarantees of product safety and the activities of prevention and training; there is a system of control and sanctions very precise and precise. As was said before, we are talking about small local productions that will be marketed in the province of production and in those terms. Even in the light of the experiences of the regions that have already experienced it, we believe that this mechanism can give interesting answers for a whole series of networks of enterprises that will really be able to make the most of their productions. We believe this to be a very useful measure. There will still be work to be done because there is a decree to define, together with the guidelines, the quantities, methods and requirements required to guarantee these productions. It is, therefore, planned a work that will still involve the Commissions to define in a timely way all the rules of the game, but we want to bet on the measure precisely to create better conditions that allow us to make the most of many of our productions. For this very reason, the Democratic Party vote will be in favour and we want to bet with confidence on the opportunities that we will give these companies. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bergesio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u119	VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank my previous colleagues for their explanations of vote in favour of this Lega-Salvini Premier measure. The examination of the draft law on small local productions began more than a year ago and the process in the Commission, as my previous colleagues said, was very much involved. It received unanimous approval in the Commission and the support of all those interested in agriculture and agri-food. The main objective of the bill is to offer opportunities to those who want to start a production or sale activity in limited quantities of local typical products. Most of them will benefit from many small and medium-sized farms. This goal will be achieved by allowing many agricultural producers to sell directly in the local and provincial areas or provinces contermini (i.e. within their own region) the products of their primary production. The idea of small local productions stems from the fact that our country is characterized by many small artisanal and food productions typical and of quality, but also from the fact that consumers show more and more interest in the genuine local products coming from short or very short supply chains: in these cases we do not speak of zero kilometer, but of meter zero. The introduction of the PPLs will give considerable help to the actions against the abandonment of the so-called difficult territories, which are often and willingly the mountain areas, where in recent years - we know for the known events - there has been often and gladly a great exodus towards the comforts of the cities. The phenomenon of the abandonment of the mountains and the consequent neglect of the territory have resulted in the inevitable consequence of a greater hydrogeological failure. It is well known that the care of the territory is fundamental in order above all to prevent landslides, which are increasingly frequent in recent years. Of course it must be stressed that the care of the mountain territories is even more important today given what is happening and that it is now proven. I am referring to climate change, which we must fight with the garrison of the territory. Certainly the small local productions will help those who want to stay on the territory. The realization of the PPLs will help to open small sales activities of our mountain products. Let's think about the many pastures where dairy cows are raised and cheese is produced. With this bill, farmers or farmers will be able to sell their products directly, provided that they are able to produce them. In fact, if we do not manage to contain the phenomenon of wolves and wildlife, in the fences of the breeders will remain very little at the end of the season to make small local productions. Mr President, if we do not deal as soon as possible with the problem of the phenomenon of wildlife and mainly wild boars that devour all that is edible for them, it will be difficult to harvest and, consequently, small local productions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I'm not saying this with controversy, but because I think it's actually a problem. When hunters were allowed to do their job in the past, wild boars lived in the high mountains, in the woods. Today it's different: just go to the outskirts of the cities to see the wild boars. Also in Rome, for example, in Via Cortina d'Ampezzo, there have been many. Allow me, Mr President, but here in Rome wild boars play an important social role: often not alone, but in teams with seagulls, eating waste abandoned along the streets, they help AMA (the company that deals with the management of Roman waste) to keep the city clean. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If we really want to preserve the garrisons in the difficult areas of our mountain territories, we must also give those who want to live in them the tools to survive. I turn then to Minister Costa, but also to Minister Bellanova (who is not present here today, but who is represented by the Undersecretary L'Abbate, whom I greet): try to go and talk to our farmers and mountain farmers, to the North, to the Centre and to the South, and let them tell you their experiences to understand how they feel when they see their crops destroyed by wild boars or when they see their flocks decimated or even destroyed by the attack of wolves. It is impossible today in the mountains or in the hills to continue farming and breeding in these conditions. The amendments to the Hunting Act, No 157 of 1992, are urgently needed. Going back to the small local productions, we are convinced that the direct sale of products will also encourage tourism. The combination of agri-food and tourism has ensured that exports of our products have increased by almost 6% in 2018. The choice of the previous government to combine agriculture and tourism with a decision of the Minister Centinario, to which my thanks go. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is because tourists, when they arrive in our country, visit, taste, know, appreciate and then inevitably buy our products, because they are good, healthy and genuine. In our country there are over 800 agri-food products between PDO and PGI. In addition to these we also have a myriad of niche products almost always handed down by the culinary tradition of our grandparents and fathers who now, thanks to the small local productions, can certainly be rediscovered and valued. With the small local productions we give a big hand especially to the many young people who want to start their own activity in the agricultural world because, if we look closely at the measure, the PPLs are the first real example of bureaucratic simplification, in obtaining authorizations and in the relationship with the ASL. With this law now the ASL technicians will help, give advice and will ideally accompany by the hand those who want to undertake an activity. The local health units will move from a function that was first of control and repressive to a function of control and education, with a new relationship between citizen and institution, so ASL officials will become friends of those who want to start a business. The PPLs will have with this law a very light authorization process, which includes also and above all derogations from the urban point of view. Before that, it was difficult to meet urban standards in villages or mountain pastures. Moreover, starting a business today will cost much less from the economic point of view: it will no longer serve to go to the bank with the hat in hand, in debt up to the neck. To start a business today you just need to have skills, knowledge and a lot of desire to do. On the other hand, they will remain stringent and the sanitary standards, guaranteeing healthy and quality products, will have to be respected. The PPLs have already worked very well for a long time in Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The PPLs will work because our products, the products of our history, our culture and our culinary tradition have already had an important recognition. The Mediterranean diet, known all over the world, is already an immaterial heritage of humanity: we all know that and we often repeat it in this House. Italian food is known all over the world. With the PPLs we will help and - I hope - we will be able to shift attention from the bad habits of fast food and food made with products of very low quality and price to the culture of food and slow food, which is culture not only of eating piano, but also of eating healthy and good, with quality foods prepared with healthy and traditional methods. Finally, thanks to the small local productions, we can rediscover all the food that our grandparents and parents prepared on farms all over Italy. Mr. Undersecretary L'Abbate, I take advantage of your presence to give a thought. I was hoping that Mr Bellanova would be present today in the Chamber, which, during the transmission of 8 and a half September, I listened to a passage on GMOs, saying that I wanted to open a discussion with the social partners on the subject. This, Mr Undersecretary, has frightened me a little, because, in my opinion, if there is made in Italy, if the Mediterranean diet is a World Heritage Site, if we have more than 800 excellences between PDO and PGI and if, as has been established by all trade associations, there has been an increase of 6% in food exports, it is precisely because in our country, until now, GMOs are banned. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This must certainly be a reason for reflection. Let us leave GMOs quietly to Canada, as well as, perhaps, also to the negotiation on CETA. In fact, in the end, what good do we care about Canada that we don't have? At most we import the wheat matured with the glyphosates, which is better to leave quietly there. GMOs can be left to Ukraine, Canada and the United States, so much so that they can copy products and do them with GMOs with Italian soiling. We don't want this at all. There is an example that, in my opinion, can help us to make the idea of what GMOs are. If we take a flock of sheep and put the wolves in, these in one or two nights will eat all the sheep. The same thing will happen when we import GMOs in our country: within one or two years GMOs will be able to contaminate all the products made in Italy. At that point, made in Italy we will have absolutely nothing. This is a reason for reflection. Who will benefit from GMOs? Certainly not our farmers, who manage to earn income with Made in Italy: multinational companies, which have been pushing in this direction for several years, will benefit. Mr. Undersecretary, let Minister Bellanova reflect, because if the Minister doesn't think about this measure again, surely... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vallardi, I invite you to conclude because you have already abundantly exceeded your time. VALLARDI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I begin with a heartfelt appeal to defend your healthy eating, Mr. Undersecretary, and not just that of us senators. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr. Undersecretary, if you do not stop Mr. Bellanova, it will be Italian farmers who do so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u120	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u122	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the bill before the House, which contains rules for the exploitation of small agricultural products of local origin, is certainly a measure of great interest to the territories and the rural economy of our country. This is a parliamentary initiative measure and it is worth pointing out because it is right that Parliament should regain its power to legislate, in particular on areas such as the one we are debating today. The rural economy is of strategic importance, because it affects a number of issues that affect our time. I refer to the issue of the depopulation of the internal areas, the revival of the territorial microfiliere, the maintenance of the territory, which is the main weapon of contrast of the hydrogeological failure. "Saperi e sapori" is much more than a slogan. We know very well that our country is characterized by the presence of numerous extraordinary small food productions, typical, of quality, which represent an attractive element as few tourists and visitors. Globalisation and food industrialization had the effect, as if it were an antibody, of enhancing local products from short and very short production chains and small local productions. I come from an extraordinary land from this point of view. Calabria alone can boast hundreds of very small local productions, daughters of traditions that do not have a written disciplinary but a tradition that is handed down. Of course, there are not few difficulties in carrying out productions of this type, narrowed by the arrogance of the great productions; but we know that this union between tradition and food and wine can trigger virtuous opportunities for our territories. Those that we have trivially always mocked as festivals today are an added value, because they trigger curiosity for traditions that risk disappearing. That is why the legislative proposal itself is a good compromise, also thanks to the work done in the Commission. We worked to ensure that there was a right balance, so that we could go to the heart of the criticality, to have a perspective of development also for the territories. It is clear that this type of proposal focuses mainly on the inner areas, the most fragile and the weakest of our country. To give an organic regulatory framework to this topic of food economy means investing in security and tourism promotion. There is more and more talk of circular economy and overcoming the current development clichés. Our small local productions are very valuable; we are told by the professional organizations, we are told by the reports of the main research institutes in the sector, the perception that we have, even by administrators who in recent years have seen increased participation and attention precisely to trade fairs and festivals. It is therefore no longer a niche phenomenon or, worse, a declining segment. Having a territorial economy that underlies these small productions and that triggers a district dimension on a territorial basis can help to get out of the marginality entire areas, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. We are therefore convinced that the national government must follow this parliamentary debate carefully and must, starting from the next budget law, make the ratio of this work, in order to promote adequately and with resources the development linked to these productions. The conditions must be created for a greater ease of marketing of products of this type, avoiding speculations and preventative attitudes peculiar to the large organized distribution, which can remove oxygen from this project. We are convinced that the new course of the Government, with this Minister that we have put in place, in particular in the agricultural sector, can represent a real opportunity for growth in this area. That is why the adoption of such a measure is a good starting point for dealing with issues relating to a territorial dimension which are too often marginalised. We need an organic intervention of protection, marketing, interconnection with other disciplines, because the small local productions are a bit like the chrysalis: to become a butterfly and therefore to be able to bring development they need an environment able to support the effort that so many small producers make. We need to network, we need mayors, trade organisations, pro-locals, promotion agencies to leave a bell towering dimension and be able to make a system. Only in this way can the little one become beautiful, sustainable and able to produce real wealth for the territory. If the size remains that of the defense of the perimeter of contrada, you don't go anywhere. Parliament offers a regulatory basis that can go beyond the other support initiatives and I am sure that this new political framework can be more functional to a plan for revitalising the internal areas and the ability to make our small local productions competitive and stronger territories, which up to now have been marginalized. For these reasons, I announce the vote in favour of the Italia Viva Group. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u123	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u125	BACTISTONI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on this important bill, which is in favour of our small farmers. It is a start, in order to enable our farmers to diversify their incomes. Mr President, today, however, I would have liked the competent Minister to be present in this Chamber, also so that he could begin to address all matters relating to agriculture. In particular, our agricultural sector has for too many years been subject to continuous emergencies, of climate or biological order. We still have the long-standing problems of Xylella, the Asian bug and climate change, which unfortunately have now become a constant for our farmers, to which, last but not least, the problem of wildlife damage has been added with increasing force, so much so that the regions are no longer able to cope with their compensation. So there is a lack of a model of agriculture, for its revival at national and international level: unfortunately we are only managing Italian agriculture through emerging decrees. Lately the so-called emergency decree has been approved, to address the problem of Xylella and that of our milk producers, so we have seen the protests of the Sardinian shepherds a few months ago. A decree-law has therefore been adopted, but the measures are not yet in place, because there are no implementing decrees. I hope, therefore, Mr L'Abbate, that these decrees can be prepared as soon as possible so as to begin to offer concrete answers. The Forza Italia Group, moreover, called for a clear line on the various rural development plans, because it is not possible to have an Italy at different speeds in the expenditure of the Structural Funds. Unfortunately, the only reliable source of funding is the one that passes through the Regions and the tool of the Rural Development Plan, but we have Regions that manage to spend and Regions that fail to do so. Therefore, in my opinion, it would be useful to give clear guidelines on the general model of agriculture, including with regard to the regions. Agriculture does not need to be helped, but it needs to be protected and enabled, as far as production costs are concerned, to live up to the other nations. We are in fact faced with an important appointment, the approval of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), and we see that, in the different pillars, our agriculture, especially that of quality and not quantitative, could be severely penalized. So here too I would like to see strong action on Brussels, so that our farmers and our agriculture do not lose out. Agriculture also needs tax breaks and exits such as that of the Minister for the Environment and the protection of the land and the sea, who spoke of the elimination of the concessions on agricultural fuels, are a major damage to our agriculture, because our farmers will become even less competitive with European and world colleagues. These things must be avoided, because it is only in announcing them that they can create many problems and, above all, increase the cost of production for our farmers. It is enough to talk about taxes, as the Minister of Education has done, because taxing a snack does not only mean encouraging healthy food: behind a snack there are our milk producers, our hazelnut producers. I therefore believe that it is much more important to focus on healthy food education in order to diversify our diet. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The measure in question is in the right direction. We have worked a year, as President Vallardi said, and I thank all my colleagues who, with their contributions, have given indications and made improvements to the general system of this measure. I think this is the right way to facilitate our entrepreneurs. Who protects small agricultural products protects our history, our knowledge, our cultural identity; even the transmission of our recipes, our traditional products can really help our farmers. Having said that, I announce the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group for the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u128	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, the measure concerning small local agri-food productions, which we are dealing with today, in a climate of great sharing, as previous speakers have reminded me, has as its distinguishing features, provided for in Article 1, territoriality, direct sale, immediate consumption and reduced quantities of distribution. As is well known, Italian agriculture is characterized by a great variety of products, environments and cultural traditions; but the great added value of Italian agro-food is represented by the handicraft character and the high recourse to tradition. In order to allow operators to make the best use of the value of their products, specific certifications have long existed at Community level with the system of geographical indications (PDO and PGI), with the system of traditional specialities guaranteed (WG) and with the adoption of Regulation of the European Union No 848 of 2018 on organic and related labelling. After a long period, characterized by the prevalence of the model of production and mass consumption, the spread of new sensitivities has strengthened and amplified the interest for traditional and typical agro-food products. For this reason, too, the number of genera and operators involved in production, marketing, protection, exploitation and control increases. It also increases the volume of business and therefore the prospects - or at least the hopes - placed in small local agri-food productions, which only a few years ago seemed destined to be forgotten as a synonym of backwardness and which, instead, are now often indicated as a solution to the problems of an agricultural world increasingly in difficulty and incentive for many young entrepreneurs. The need for a commitment to the development of the local and typical agri-food sector finds its reasons in the deep conviction that this sector represents one of the strategic elements of relaunching the rural world and consequent opportunities for economic development. Agricultural and agri-food companies, especially those of smaller size located in disadvantaged and marginal areas, such as mountain ones, see in the typical local product not only the possibility to carve out a space on the market increasingly exposed to ruthless competition, but also the opportunity to recover part of the added value stolen over time from the rise of the industry and the large-scale organized distribution. At the origin of this is the close and profound relationship that the typical product and its creation have with the territory; a relationship that involves natural, cultural, human and social capital. From this point of view, the exploitation of small local agri-food productions takes on a meaning, and therefore a value, which goes beyond marketing, configuring itself as a process capable of creating a wider value, including extra-economic elements. However, it is necessary to consider some aspects, namely the connection of typicality with the territory and the importance of the specific territorial resources of the production process (as recalled in Article 5 of the draft law that we are dealing with) the collective character deriving from the involvement of a plurality of actors and the connection with the local community that gives the typical product a value that goes beyond the companies that commercialize it and that generally interests the society and the population of the place. The local agri-food product, therefore, has with its territory of origin a privileged bond that results in the use of specific resources of the place from which often results an improvement of its quality. Article 8 of the draft law establishes a special section on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Forestry and Tourism, aimed at the valorization of local agri-food productions. This is an effective strategy for achieving multiple economic objectives, such as the revitalization of typical crops, the diversification of production and the acquisition of new market outlets, both of a socio-cultural nature, such as the recovery of traditions and local culture, but also the strengthening of the identity of the territory. Encouraging small agri-food production is therefore a decisive factor in the endogenous development of territorial systems. The enhancement of typicality, in fact, integrates the purely productive function of agricultural, beekeeping and fishing activities with new and different functions, including the protection of the environment and the territory - also in contrast to the hydrogeological failure - and the preservation of culture and rural traditions, promoting local employment and triggering new economic and social dynamics. Moreover, the establishment of a network of markets characterized by the presence of quality productions related to the place of origin and, as provided for in Articles 3 and 4 of the measure, identified through the labelling with the PPL brand followed by the name of the Municipality and the Province of reference, represents a flywheel for the economy of the entire country. We are convinced, in fact, that with an effective action to promote the territory, carried out through a communication able to enhance the potential and to stimulate local entrepreneurship, our agri-food products will continue to be an invaluable resource, generating ever greater wealth. At the basis of the reputation of the typical product there is a specificity, compared to that of the same commodity category, closely linked to the characteristics of the place of origin and determined by factors that affect companies and consumers of the production area in terms of cultivation, processing and consumption. Once the typical product has acquired its own specific identity linked to the territory, its notoriety spreads through diversified and sometimes random mechanisms and its name, often coinciding with that of the area, condenses a set of information on its characteristics and specificity. The diffusion of knowledge and appreciation of the local agro-food industry has had important repercussions both on the distribution structure, with the creation of specialised shops and dedicated websites, and on the policies of offering it. Colleagues, this is a journey that must be made with commitment and seriousness on the production side and with constant attention to the market and consumer information. In fact, producers must demonstrate, even with the respect of the requirements provided for by the regulations, that they are capable of obtaining seductive, unmistakable and absolutely genuine tastes. As a result, the consumer will be increasingly willing to pay for quality and reward those who pursue this quality with courage and consistency, even when it would be possible to obtain similar goods but at lower costs, increasing yields, shortening ripening times, reducing the processing process. The focus on local agri-food has also been drawn and supported by the increasing attention of citizens to the quality of food, as well as by the desire to enhance and pass on local traditions and by a growing adherence to a simpler and more natural lifestyle. The typicality, as a form of expression of the culture of a territory, influences the social and economic development of rural areas, with benefits such as the increase in the incomes of agricultural enterprises, the emergence of qualified employment, greater social vitality, regeneration, through the enhancement and conservation, of traditional activities and the development of food and wine tourism. It is useful to point out that, in recent years, food and wine has taken on a central role also in the expectations and motivations of travellers, as long as they imagine a process of "patrimony" of local food and culinary specialties, to be considered real tourist attractions capable of moving a particular category of travellers. In this way, the small local production becomes a point of union between the visitor, increasingly eager for genuine food, and the territory with its authenticity and specificity of which the product becomes ambassador. In this context, synergies and relations with the local economic system, e.g. catering, crafts and trade, are essential, in order to consolidate traditional economic relations actively, strengthening the image of the local environment among consumers and visitors, and thus serving as an effective tool for territorial promotion. With the bill that we will shortly vote, farmers, bees and fish will be encouraged in promoting, enhancing, transforming and selling their products. For these reasons, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u129	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u130	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-09-24-LEG18-Senato-sed-150.ana.u131	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 25 September, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 7.19 p.m.)
