ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Castaldi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u3	I also inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the 5 Star Movement Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u6	(M5S). Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on an unfortunate incident which occurred yesterday in the municipality of Fiumicino. A councilman of the Movimento 5 Stars, Ezio Pietrosanti, first received a slap, then was taken by the neck and, finally, was literally banged on the wall (as reported this morning, unfortunately, by the press) by a majority councilor of the center-left council presided over by Mayor Montino. We absolutely want to stigmatize this kind of behavior. At the time he was attacked, our advisor was simply reading a statement, demonstrating his opposition to the policies of the centre-left majority of the municipality. I would like to ask publicly in this House, especially my colleagues from the centre-left of the Democratic Party and in particular Senator Cirinna, the wife of Mayor Montino, if they can please take an immediate stand against this act. This is a truly incredible gesture towards a young man who was carrying out his political and civil activity and who is now with an emergency department report denouncing what happened by the Carabinieri. In thanking you for your time, Mr President, I give Ezio Pietrosanti a hug on behalf of me and all the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Repented comments by Senator Mirabelli]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u7	Senator Dessì, his speech had been announced on behalf of the Group, as if the Parent Company were speaking, because normally such interventions take place at the end of the session. I didn't interrupt it, but this is true now and for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1018-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteurs, Senators Catalfo and Nisini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all my colleagues in the House of Members and the members, both by majority and opposition, of the Committee on Public and Private Labour and Social Security of the Senate for the work they have done in recent weeks. What we are about to approve today at the third reading - I repeat - is a historic measure, necessary and necessary to safeguard the social cohesion of this country. This is a measure that many other European countries have been implementing for a long time and that comes precisely from the need to counter a situation that worsened over the years and precipitated during the international economic crisis that has led Italy to have the non-enviable record of the highest rate of increase of those at risk of social exclusion in Europe (a statistic that - in fact - turns into millions of people in absolute poverty and about 10 million in relative poverty). The urgency of the measure is confirmed not only by the data ISTAT, but also and above all by the many questions to access the income and the citizenship pension that have arrived so far through Italian Post Office and through the Tax Assistance Centres (CAF). To be precise, the latest data from Poste italiani tell us more than 220,000 questions. The applications submitted through the CAFs, on the other hand, are more than 500,000. The demands come undisputedly from North to South. The cities where there is a greater number of requests are Milan, Turin, Rome, Naples and Palermo. This is also a necessary measure - I repeat - in the light of the European pillar of social rights, which states in Article 14: "Anyone who does not have sufficient resources shall be entitled to an adequate minimum income guaranteeing a decent life at all stages of life and access to goods and services. For those who can work, minimum income should be combined with incentives for reintegration into the labour market. These are precisely the aims and the rationale of the measure, therefore perfectly in line with the European pillar of social rights. This is an income support measure, but not only: a proactive measure linked to the inclusion in the social and working environment of the citizen, a large investment in employment centres, the interoperability of databases and active labour policies. Citizenship income is therefore also a major innovation in active labour policies and an important and necessary investment in the interoperability of databases. Among other things, two digital platforms are set up for the operation of the measure: the Unitary Information System of Labour Policies and the Unitary Information System of Social Services for the Coordination of Municipalities. These two platforms will form a large single portal to allow communication and exchange of information between municipalities, Employment Centres, Labour Agencies, ANPAL, Ministry of Labour and INPS. Parliament's work has made it possible to refine a text which was already effective. The amendments adopted, both to the Senate and to the House, aim to further facilitate access to income and citizenship pension. In addition, they go to some categories that more than others in recent years have suffered the crisis and austerity policies, such as pensioners, people with disabilities and so-called working poor, that is people who, while working, earn so little that they cannot afford a dignified life. I briefly illustrate some of the speeches introduced during the Senate exam. Provision has been made for the definition of a fair offer made to a person with a nationality income, which will have to pay an amount equal to or greater than 10% in more than EUR 780. A thirty-six-month time limit has been introduced within which the employer who dismisses a person who has hired and for whom he has received the bonus must return the incentive. It was also given the possibility of exemption of contributions in the case of recruitment of persons under apprenticeship contracts. In the event of voluntary resignation, only and only by the resigning party and not by the whole family was the loss of benefit arranged. An amendment to the sanctions to the FACs in the event of unfaithful transmission of practices has been envisaged. The forecast has been introduced that employers who are not in compliance with Law No 68 of 1999 on the placement of disabled people, which determines the compulsory quotas for disabled people, will not be able to benefit from the incentive. Finally, it has been foreseen that the skills acquired by beneficiaries of citizenship income will be registered on the platforms. It is therefore a historian of the skills acquired by the beneficiary of income in previous work experience or training and education paths, which should be included in the above-mentioned platforms, completing their profile. In the course of the examination in the Chamber, it was envisaged that the citizenship income should take on the designation of citizenship pension as well as in the case of households composed exclusively of one or more members aged sixty-seven years or older, even if one or more members of the household possess the aforementioned age requirement and live exclusively with one or more persons in a situation of serious disability or self-sufficiency. The Chamber has also raised the maximum limits of the value of the movable assets with reference to the nuclei in which they are present subjects in condition of serious disability or not self-sufficiency bringing the increase from 5.000 to 7.500 euros for each component in condition of serious disability or not self-sufficiency. In addition, a specific increase in the equivalence scale parameter (up to 2.2) has been introduced if members are present in the household in a condition of serious disability or non-self-sufficiency. Moreover, in the concept of unemployment, the possibility has been introduced that persons whose income from employed or self-employed persons corresponds to a gross tax equal to or less than the deductions relating to retirement or work income should also be included. An increase of one hundred units in the organic endowment of the inspectors of the Finance Guard and an increase of 65 units in the staff quota for the protection of the work of the Carabinieri Arm. Several other changes have been introduced concerning recruitment by Regions, Autonomous Provinces, Agencies and Regional Authorities: to be precise, an increase in the organic budget up to 3,000 units with effect from 2020 and up to 4,600 units with effect from 2021 of the staff of the employment centres. The allowances also include the stabilisation of the personnel units recruited through competitive procedures for fixed-term recruitment. Also with reference to the changes made by the Chamber to Article 12, it is recalled that the financial resources in favor of ANPAL Servizi SpA, inherent both to the selection of subjects and the consequent conclusion of collaboration contracts in order to contribute to the organization of the start of the income of citizenship, and to the management of the expenses, have been previewed in 90 million euros for the year 2019, 130 million euros for the year 2020 and 50 million euros for the year 2021. It was also stated that the citizenship pension may be withdrawn from the Post Office or in the bank even in cash and not necessarily be charged to the income card. There are many other proposals made by the majority groups and the opposition groups included in the draft law that therefore amend the decree: the parliamentary passage was therefore complete, allowing to modify the text and improving it where there was possibility of doing so or where there were deficiencies. I therefore believe that Parliament's work has been carried out effectively. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Nisini.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u11	Mr President, in my brief report I shall confine myself to explaining the changes and additions made to the House on articles relating to quota 100. Article 14 has been supplemented with transitional rules on competition procedures and the recruitment of the Ministry for cultural assets and activities in order to meet the requirements of replacement of staff, resulting from the extension of the possibilities of retirement provided by this decree and to ensure the functionality of the offices of the Dicastery. On the basis of a similar order of considerations, paragraph 2 of the following article 14-a allows the institutions and companies of the National Health Service to recruit, also taking into account the cessations of personnel that occur in the course of the year, without prejudice to the respect of the regional programming and the three-year plans of the needs of staff approved by the regions of belonging. With a rule inserted in paragraph 1 of Article 14-b, we redefine the methods of use of the rankings of public competitions, with reference to the subjects covered by the categories eligible for the so-called compulsory placement. With regard to the possibility of redemption introduced by paragraphs 1 to 5 of Article 20, for the three-year period 2019-2021, with reference to some subjects and cases (reclaim related to periods prior to the date of entry into force of this decree, not covered by contribution to forms of compulsory pension, nor subject to any contribution obligation), the Chamber has specified that the application can concern, without prejudice to the above conditions, also any time period of the two years in which they are credited, respectively, the first and the last contribution. With regard to the possibility of applying new criteria for calculating the redemption charge (always for pension purposes) of university study courses, with regard to periods to be assessed with the contributory system, possibility provided for in paragraph 6 of the same Article 20, the Chamber has abolished the maximum age limit for the applicant, limit placed by the original text of the decree-law and equal to forty-five years. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u12	The minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u13	Mr President, Honourable Representative of the Government, Senators and fellow Senators...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u14	I'm sorry to interrupt you for a moment, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u15	Please release the government desk, please. Toffanin, minority rapporteur. Thank you, President. We all know very well that in this passage to the Senate the "decretone" must be only and exclusively converted into law as it came to us from the Chamber of Deputies, that is, armored, under penalty of the revocation of the decree itself and the consequent end of the yellow-green government. The forcing has been evident at all levels, starting from the choice to proceed by decree even in the absence of the requirements - let us remember - of extraordinary necessity and urgency, to the recourse to confidence in the Chamber of Deputies in order to limit the discussion and the emendability of the provision and thus to be able to comply with the deadline dictated by the norms relating to the conversion to law. There has been a forcing even in the institutional communication carried out through advertising in Rai. Since February 5 last, the income of citizenship has been sold as a law in force while, in fact, it is not yet law, even on a provisional basis. It is not only an illegitimate and untrue communication about honesty and transparency, but also a clear, unacceptable devaluation of Parliament's role. At first reading, we pointed out that the text presented macroscopic deficiencies and ambiguities not only formal but also substantial ones. In general, the changes introduced to the Chamber of Deputies, numerous and complex, so much so that Articles 29 have changed to 44 and the implementing rules from 24 to 38, impact on an operation that has already been started since at least 6 March last, generating considerable criticalities. In fact, having been modified among others also the requirements and conditions for access to the benefit, transitional rules have necessarily been introduced to article 13, paragraph 1-a, or in order to be without prejudice to the requests submitted before the entry into force of the law of conversion, the benefit granted for at least six months, even if there is no further certification, documentation or declaration on the fulfilment of the requirements. Therefore, all requests accepted prior to the conversion into law of the decree will in any case be paid citizenship income for at least six months, regardless of whether the applicants then satisfy the requirements. But this is serious, it means giving the benefit also to those who, perhaps, do not have the necessary requirements to request it. Do you think that after having certified the right or not, the sums paid as a citizenship income can go back if the applicants do not meet the required requirements? This is crazy! In the Chamber of Deputies, the Forza Italia Group has tabled improvements that have been accepted only exceptionally and in very small part: the amendment for which we must denounce not only the value of the property owned in Italy but also that owned abroad, the amendment that specifies that the income of citizenship is also compatible with the unemployment benefit for workers with a coordinated collaboration relationship and finally the one that provides for the deadline within which to adopt the ministerial decree governing the INPS contribution to cover the periods of contributions discovered for the workers in administration. Other amendments have been absorbed, as was the case at first reading in the Senate, for example the increase in the limits of real estate for households with disabled components. Consistently with our attention to the weakest sections of the population, we have tabled amendments in favour of disabled people and larger households since the beginning, because the decree did not provide for this. These demands have, however, been translated into insufficient changes compared to what we consider essential; indeed, for large households nothing has been expected, apart from an increase in the equivalence scale of 0.1 percentage point for components with severe or not self-sufficient disabilities, but it is just a little bit of a congratulation, it is very little. The majority wanted in fact to be waterproof to the many improvements proposed by the minority and did not devote attention and resources to those who really need it, to those who have difficulty even accessing registration because in actual conditions of social distress and that this measure is likely to exclude instead. Other than abolishing poverty! Finally, the House of Deputies has been corrected, even at our request, to a serious pre-existing deficiency, excluding the payment of the income of citizenship to those who have been subjected to personal precautionary measures or have had final sentences in the ten years preceding the request, provided that someone in this situation has not already made a request for the benefit and, because of the transitional rule that I remember before, can therefore receive the income for the famous six months, except then maybe Give it back to you. The measure, on the one hand, aims to support the poor, on the other hand, claims to initiate the unemployed into training and integration into the world of work. Those who should mainly take charge of these activities are the employment centres and municipalities, even if the municipalities are not ready for the activities assigned to them by this measure. It will be a huge burden for them, which will literally clog their administrative activity and which will have to be faced with own resources - already too scarce, especially for the small and medium-sized municipalities - within the limits of the resources available on the Fund to combat poverty and social exclusion. But do you know how many municipalities have these funds at their disposal and to what extent? Colleagues of the League, prepare yourselves well, but very well, to explain all this to your mayors in the territory because you will have to justify it: it is too convenient, in fact, to entrust tasks to the municipalities without providing for greater burdens for public finance. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] As far as employment centres are concerned, we said from the outset that they could not be ready and efficient to carry out this activity and now you have been forced to take note of it; too late. You have tried to put a patch in it, rewriting the entire article 12 to insert the Extraordinary Plan for the strengthening of employment centres, referring it among other things to a umpteenth decree of the Ministry of Labour and social policies. All this, however, had to be prepared and implemented before the start, not only of the supply, but also of the demand itself, indeed well before. On the other hand, there has been no forward-looking approach, but botched and, above all, bound up with the terms of the election campaign of the European elections, because that is the real issue. In the same way, a comparison was not made with the Regions and the agencies in charge in due time, but only after having already prepared the decree-law. We also told you that we cannot predict the mass recruitment of so-called navigators to be dedicated to the centres for use in an approximate way, without a design. Therefore, recruitment is allocated by half the number initially planned for 2020, while for an additional 4,600 units by 2021. Delay in the agreements between the State and the Regions, but also lack of organization and structuring, as well as an evident scarcity of resources. The hearing was attended by the person who was to become the new president of ANPAL and ANPAL Servizi, Professor Parisi, who would then have had to manage the process of restructuring employment centres immediately. We have listened to him and not others, and his appointment has also been voted on in the Commission. The appointments of the new president and director of ANPAL and ANPAL Servizi are deferred over a period of one hundred twenty and one hundred and eighty days. It is therefore clear to us that there is no clear idea of how to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the employment centres or of who should manage their reorganization, without considering that in the meantime the times are longer, the income recipients will not be taken over by the agencies in charge, while the grant will continue as pure welfare and all will be in deficit. We cannot forget it: everything is in deficit. Other changes made by the Chamber of Deputies involve Article 7, which provides for an increase of 65 units in the staff quota of the Carabinieri Arm, and Article 6, which authorizes the recruitment of 100 inspectors of the Finance Guard in order to strengthen the law enforcement activity. Mr President, they have realised the need to combat undeclared work that citizenship income will certainly cause. However, 165 units really make you laugh at the number of citizens' income recipients that will have to be checked. I shall conclude by saying that no major changes have been made to the 100 quota. It remains a limited window for a few people and even in time, because it lasts only three years. It is not the overcoming of the Fornero law. We expected more. It remains an expensive measure and I remember that with the blocking of indexing money is taken away from those pensioners who receive 1,200 euros per month of pension to pay such a measure. In short, all this is very far from the programmes of Forza Italia and the center-right that the Italians voted last year; the costs and the repercussions on the future you have not considered them. Of course, for you the electoral objectives were and are preponderant, but remember that also and especially after May 26 the consequences of the realization of the income of citizenship and quota 100 will put you before not only your electorate, but also the entire country. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u16	The minority rapporteur, Senator Parente, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u17	Mr President, we have reached the third reading of the so-called decree on the income of citizenship and quota 100 and the changes made by the House of which we are debating today have not been few. However, in the parliamentary process, despite the many and unfortunately always rejected proposals of the Democratic Party, the income of citizenship does not change in its basic system, confusing support for work and combating poverty. In no country in the world are the two measures so confused, because support for work requires, as well as a system of accompaniment to people, the promotion of an entrepreneurial climate that favours investment and creates new job opportunities, especially in the weakest areas of the Mezzogiorno. The fight against poverty brings with it the real identification of the real poor, the homeless, all those who often live in families at great risk of social distress. Even with all the limits - I say this - the governments of the XVII legislature of Renzi and Gentiloni had identified, on the one hand, income, of inclusion and, on the other hand, the constitution, for the first time in a structural way, of a national agency for active policies, with the consequent approach of a new scaffolding of rights such as - for example - the relocation allowance for those who lose their job. According to the Democratic Party, the path taken had to be continued and strengthened. You could also call it citizenship income - we would not have discussed a nominalistic issue - but it was enough to have a fair approach to citizenship income. The confusion, on the contrary, brought into this decree-law between measures to support work and combat poverty creates a legal monster and the real risk of not really helping the real poor, the unemployed and the unemployed, the people with disabilities and in many cases women. It hurts, as a citizen, even more than as a representative of the citizens, to realize that Italy will make a jump in the dark: it is likely that we will increase the public debt and our children will find themselves tomorrow unable to make economic decisions because tight from the grip of the debt, as has unfortunately happened in our history. There is a beautiful little book by Edmondo Berselli, unfortunately missing, called "The Right Economy." In the face of the increase in debt, the income of citizenship will leave many people and families in need. E 100 is a forward pension measure (until 2021) which, with the need for the two requirements together (sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight contributions), will not intercept workers and weaker workers with discontinuous careers. I will now focus on some changes made by the House in the matter above all of State-Regions understanding, disability, recruitment, controls, essential levels of performance. In the course of the examination in the Chamber of Deputies many innovations have been introduced, especially in the matter of State-Regions understanding. How long have you of the majority made us lose in the Commission to ask for something that should already have been included in the decree-law, namely the State-Regions agreement, because we know that they are matters of regional competence, some competitors. We should have split up on political solutions and not on an issue that should be included. Let me ask you a question: why haven't you done this before? Why didn't the government come up with a text that already received the understanding of the State-Regions? There are many answers: incompetence - I hardly say this - or the failure of a state to respect the various institutional levels, or - in this very solemn Chamber I will use a Roman dialect expression - we have been tested. We believe that the political agreement with regional levels, which has been incorporated into the text approved by the House, has also been very important. But in this way paragraph 3 of Article 12, from a dozen lines of the initial text, became two pages in the text modified by the Chamber, adding paragraphs 3-a, 3-b and 3-c. This measure, like many others of the Government, also suffers from a writing of redundant texts, regardless of the accessibility of the norms, especially when they address more fragile citizens and citizens. The disorder is often a sign of the difficulty - we have seen it in the dialectic in the Commission, in the Chamber, in the delays still yesterday of the Budget Commission and between the Government and the majority - of a non-compact majority that goes on for the sum of measures, unfortunately without an overall view of the country. Let's move on to the question of so-called navigators. In the initial text, the assumption of "professionality" was foreseen - says the text, because navigator is a term given to the public, while in the legal text it is spoken of "professionality" - in the number of 6,000, but the House has been made a change thanks to the understanding State-Regions, and 3,000 people with professionalism have become who will go to provide technical assistance - this says the understanding State-Regions and the legislative text that we will have to vote today - but remains the original sin: 3,000 precarious graduates are admitted in the services for the work in Italy, whose methods of selection have not yet been made public, which must be formed on the field presumably by other precarious ones, who are already operating within ANPAL Services. We, once again, ask you to hire the 654 precarious ANPAL Servizi; on the contrary, I believe that there are 652, because already two people (two women) have not seen renewed their collaboration contract. In the course of the parliamentary debate, the Government responded in a surreal and sometimes cynical way - let me tell you, as people - to our requests for professional stability, which are very rare in the Italian system, on the grounds that the situation of the precarious of ANPAL Servizi is the responsibility of the governments of the past legislature. It is true that twenty-two years has accumulated precarious staff, having it ANPAL Services inherited from Italy Job, but we will face a situation where the staff of ANPAL Services will be 90 percent precarious and only 10 percent will have stable employment contracts. So, other precarious ones will have to help the unemployed find jobs. On the subject of disability we will return to the examination of the amendments, but there is nothing on the scale of equivalence that gives more to people with disabilities. In fact, we use a scale of equivalence unique in the world: there is nowhere a scale of equivalence that does not give more to those who deserve more and surely the families of whom people with disabilities belong need more attention. As regards controls - as the rapporteur, President of the Commission, public and private work, social security - has pointed out - the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies has added recruitment to the Finance Guard and the Carabinieri. This says a lot, once again, about the nature of the measure under consideration: instead of hiring social workers and labour inspectors, they hire Carabinieri. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of course, we are absolutely not opposed to increasing the resources for the Carabinieri and the Financial Guard, and therefore we have not done any amending work on this point: these are men and women who take care of our security. However, in a text against poverty, the assumption of Carabinieri gives the measure under consideration. We discussed consumer control very much during the first reading of the provision in the Senate. The anti-poverty measure becomes a card for consumers, which implies control over what they do. People and families in need have the right to be free to choose their own life and should not be controlled, because they are in economic difficulty. Politics must strive to allow all and all equal opportunities, because development is freedom, as a great of our time says, Amartya Sen. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that, with regard to the essential levels, once the agreement between the State and the regions has been concluded, the State must ensure that the essential levels are guaranteed. Of the two, the one: or this cumbersome mechanism does not part and, therefore, people will not be put on a path of inclusion and therefore it is a welfare measure; or the State, from the minute after the adoption of the measure under consideration, really takes care of the realization of the essential levels, because we talk about rights. We will monitor the essential levels, from the opposition, without making discounts, because each of our fellow citizens can have the right to demand what is required by law and to express their duties. We will then use our capacity to propose a universal European measure of income support, because this is the only way forward. Finally, Mr President, I believe that the effects of these rules will be measured mainly on the well-being of women, who are often head of the family and face the greatest difficulties. Recently an enlightened woman, Luisa Muraro, on citizenship income has retraced the debate among women, in feminism, about wages and domestic work. Well, women chose the labour market rather than the wage of domestic work. Like the story of this experience, we must take for example the lives of women and their desire to build a society of free and supportive people, with a policy that provides tools and opportunities to do so. In conclusion, we believe that an income of citizenship without inclusion paths, controls instead of responsibility, punishments instead of accompaniment and support, income without work and the exclusion of immigrant citizens from social aid are not the way to go for our community, and that is also the political discrimination between the right and the left. We will continue to be on the same side, the one that pursues freedom from the need and emancipation of citizens and citizens, supporting those in difficulty in a broad context of developing employment opportunities for all. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, ladies and gentlemen, today we are committed to discussing one of the many commercial measures that this Government has proposed to us or, better, to impose on us. I understand that the political line of a majority is based on certain cornerstones, but it is also true that measures such as citizenship income and pensions cannot and must not be imposed through the use and abuse of the decree of urgency. These are measures that would have required broad parliamentary sharing and, instead - as you have already done with the budget law - to overcome internal divisions by the majority, you force Parliament, as usual, to take or leave, without creating the right intercourse with the parliamentary minorities that serves to improve the regulatory measures, to meet the needs of the community, which you may not see or fail to consider. You have had to change the conditions of access to citizenship income and pension several times because - by now the Italians have understood - the blanket is short and you are aware that, in the absence of an effective system of controls, abuses and scams will be on the agenda. You are giving an income of cunning, without helping the real pockets of poverty and poverty. You're taking away value from work to value a false citizenship income, which is not that citizenship income you promised in the election campaign. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You continue not to deal with the real problems, but you do it well only in the election campaign or the opposition, trying to be credible and then the government cannot make a measure that is consistent with what you say in the election campaign. You are not dealing with the job that is increasingly lacking throughout the country and especially in the South and among the youngest. You are not dealing with blocked public works, the lack of infrastructure, which is the cause of the lack of employment, especially in Central and South. You are not dealing with those strategic works that would constitute a flywheel of economic development: the high speed in the North, like the high speed in the South, the bridge on the Strait, the ports of the South like that of Gioia Tauro, which were completely excluded from the project "Silk Road" that you signed with China. You do not want wealth to arrive in Italy and in the South and from the South; you prefer welfare. You don't want to complete state 106, which concerns four regions, which is not viable. You don't want to support airports, which are the first source of tourist wealth in every country. You have abandoned agri-food companies to their sad fate and will be crushed by competition and international counterfeiting. This is why with Forza Italia we presented a measure to protect the Made in Italy agri-food, collaborating with an important Italian university. I would like to talk about this or about real support for families who do not have a job, about a real decent income and not about this false income. Precisely on the income of citizenship Grillo went to Calabria to do his show and offended all the Calabrians saying that they are 'andranghetists or work in black because they did not ask for the income of citizenship in a country that has less than a thousand souls. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is not fair to joke with something so important that offends the dignity of an entire Region. You promised billions for the income of citizenship and then, perhaps, to 7 billion. That is why resources are not enough. Colleagues of the League, you cannot accept something so useless for those in need. This fake and demagogic decree-law, which is not a subsidy, will never be a job and even risks becoming a mechanism of destruction of real work and incentive to black work. Dear colleagues of the majority, return with your feet on the ground. You are driving the country - and I would like De Falco to say so too - as Schettino led the Concordia: ascend to the ship and save the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u20	Senator Pizzol is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u21	Mr President, Senator colleagues, Senator colleagues, representative of the Government, today we definitively dismiss, with firm conviction, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 4 of 28 January 2019, which contains provisions on citizenship income and pensions. Compared to the text already adopted in this House, the House of Deputies has, in a nutshell, added additional safeguards for families with disabilities and minor children; it has increased the cases of suspension or permanent loss of citizenship income for certain offences and criminal convictions; it has abolished the limit of forty-five years in order to be able to redeem the annual courses of university study. There will be an increase in the number of staff responsible for checks and checks on applicants for citizenship income. The latter is a unique and innovative measure to combat poverty, inequalities and social exclusion with active job search. For households composed exclusively of one or more persons aged sixty-seven or more, it is called a citizenship pension. With a number of amendments, we wanted to avoid the possibility that there would be applicants tempted to declare the false in order to obtain the said benefit, perhaps in the impossibility, by the supervisory authorities, to verify the truthfulness of the statements, as can be done with regard to our Italian and European fellow citizens. It seems that there are people who want to make profits and that some lawyers, fans of the invasion of Italy, are sharpening their weapons to extend this benefit indiscriminately to all foreigners present in our country. Since more than 5 million Italians have been acclaimed in absolute poverty, and the economic and financial resources are limited, I hope that we understand what the legislator's actual intentions are and the material impossibility of being able to maintain all the disinherits that have already invaded us. We are talking about measures much desired by Italians, as the best known 100 quota, that is the option granted to workers - experimentally and for three years - to retire having sixty-two years of age and thirty-eight contributions. Private workers who have met the requirements by 31 December 2018 will be able to retire from work as early as 1 April; those who reach them later will be able to leave three months later and the window is quarterly. On the other hand, public workers will have six months' windows, with six more notice, and will be able to leave work from August 1st. In order to avoid disservices in the school world, the school workers will have to wait on 28 February each year to retire at the beginning of the next school year or academic year. All those who opt for the so-called 100 quota - and so far has already been requested by 100,000 workers [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S groups) -]] they will not be able to accumulate the allowance with working income exceeding 5,000 euros per year until they reach sixty-seven years of age. In addition, their pension allowance will be lighter, given the payment of lower contributions. In order to promote and stimulate the generational shift between older and young workers, the conversion law provides for the development of an already existing formula but little used so far. Companies in crisis or with redundancies will be able to use sector solidarity funds to allow the exit three years ahead of 100 (fifty-nine years and thirty-five years of contributions). The fund, with company charges, will pay the pension advance until the requirements for 100 are met. The novelty is that companies do not have to pay contributions for the missing years to the pension. The measure under consideration today has become necessary in the light of the distorting and devastating effects of the so-called Fornero law on the labour market and the increasingly worrying rise in youth unemployment. In recent years we have seen a progressive increase in the retirement age to adapt it to the workers' life expectancy. The Fornero law has over time become a dam to contain a large pool of workers from retirement age, who perceive it increasingly with greater insufferance, especially in the public administration, where the blockage of turnover, combined with the extension of the retirement age, has increased the average age of workers to fifty-five years: an exaggeratedly high age compared to the European average. In order to remedy this problem we have already intervened with the so-called concrete measure that, by unlocking the turnover and allowing an equal relationship between workers entering and leaving, will certainly allow a significant and desired generational replacement through the recruitment of young people who will replace the workers who will retire. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Share 100 continues firmly in this direction and in the next three years will try to drain out of the bottle neck some workers, in order to make it later easier to achieve the real objective that this Government has set itself: forty-one years of service regardless of age. In private work there will probably not be an equal replacement, but it has been intended to contribute to the generational replacement by providing companies with a positive boost that can make them more economically strong, competitive and attractive on the labour market. Since this opportunity has already been welcomed by 100,000 workers who meet these requirements, we can say that it will have a positive impact on the world of work; in fact, we are in a position to strongly reaffirm that we can stimulate and support the generational shift. Given the age of many workers still in service, it can be said that grandparents are leaving their children's jobs; in this way they will have time to spend in the family and with their grandchildren. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is highly likely that a safe place of work will enable our young people to think about a family and will also be a strong incentive for births. Quota 100 is a voluntary faculty, an additional way to access the pension together with all the other ordinary access already foreseen or regulated by the disastrous Monti-Fornero reform. Therefore, you can continue to retire using indifferently both the Fornero, and the 100 quota, the social EPA, the retirement pension, the women's option or the measures provided for early workers and those for particularly weary activities. Among the rules that we are approving it is expected that the INPS will carry out monthly monitoring for the year 2019 and quarterly in the following years on retirement applications and provide the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and that of the economy and finance with timely reporting of the resulting burdens, precisely to avoid deviations from the planned expenditure; they also regulate the reform of the governance of the INPS, the institution managing pensions and assistance, and that of the Inail, the Institute for Insurance on Accidents at Work. It provides the transition from centralised management in the President's hands to collegiate management without any new or increased burden on public finance. In these bodies will be restored the boards of directors that had been abolished many years ago, which will be composed of five members of government appointment, including the president. Today is a special day because at last the Leagues keep the promise to break up the Fornero law made in the electoral campaign. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No one can forget December 2011 and the measure that the Monti Government ironically called Salva Italy. It is precisely by approving the Fornero reform and in particular Article 24 that that technical government and those who supported it - some of which unfortunately are still sitting in this House [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - has created the social scourge of exodus and blocked the generational shift in the labour market, hitting Italian workers in a cowardly, subtle and unjust way, justifying interventions as necessary and urgent and cashing out at the expense of pensioners and those who were going to retire. The billions of increase in the public deficit that the Monti Government has produced and added on Italy's shoulders are also stories of this country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Pizzol. Mr Pizzol (L-SP-PSd'Az). Quota 100 is an exercise of coherence for the League, which officially decrees the end of a season of supine obedience to the laws dropped from above and dictated by European high finance against Italians, as was precisely the Fornero law, which prohibited pensions to workers who, after a working life, had the sacrosanct right to enjoy the deserved rest. In this way we have tried to mitigate the punitive effects of that law which, from today to tomorrow, has suddenly raised the age of retirement and extended the maturity of the right to old-age pension by several years and eliminated the right to old-age pension. Quota 100 demonstrates, if still needed, the respect and consistency between the electoral promises and what this movement then translates into facts, which distinguishes the League from others. In my opinion, the INPS should be broken down between welfare and welfare as in other European countries: it would finally shed light on the amount of contributions paid by workers, which should be used exclusively for their pensions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The assistance should provide for general taxation: it would probably be found that even Italians can retire before the sixty-seven years currently planned. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u22	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State Science High School (Galileo Galilei) in Verona, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a measure which has also created great concern within our movement, because we are aware that poverty in Italy is a real problem, but at the same time that the response that is given by this measure is wrong, for a number of reasons. First of all, in order to get out of a misunderstanding, I want to say that I do not have all the conviction by the majority that the measure is effective, but that I do have a suspicion that comes from two very simple reasons and considerations. On the one hand, I believe that it is exclusively instrumental in nature. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , because we are faced with attempts to reach the goal of forced marches, with on the shoulders a backpack in which are contained the burdens and the appesting of the errors committed by someone; on the other, since February of this year, they are sent on electoral commercials - in a sudden way, as our colleague, Senator Toffanin, has remembered - that advertise a law that does not exist. All this comes on the eve of a very important election, that of the European elections in May, for which I believe there is a particular interest on the part of the political forces. If it is a sin to think wrong, but sometimes it is right, I believe that this is the real and fundamental reason for which we have arrived - as I said - forced the approval, probably, of the measure under consideration. It is a real problem, that of poverty in Italy. There are millions of Italians in these conditions. The League made an initial promise. When we presented the program for the 4 March 2018 elections, he promised: First the Italians. However, if we go to examine the measure in question, we immediately realize that 241,000 households that will benefit from the income of citizenship are composed of people who come from foreign countries. Where, then, is Italianity? I tell the friends of the League: where is the defense of Italy? The Forza Italia Group had tabled an amendment to increase to 20 years the obligation to reside in Italy in order to benefit from the measure, but you rejected it. And here we are, faced with a measure that will give aid, tips and subsidies to 241,000 families of foreigners. And that means 241,000 households of Italians won't benefit from it. This is a fact that should definitely make people think. This is a commercial measure, which does not help Italians and, above all, does not go in the direction of helping the work of Italians. In fact, if we really wanted to create something positive for the Italian economy, we would not have gone in this direction. It is a welfare measure, that is the truth. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a welfare measure that will not be able to solve the problems of poverty in Italy, because poverty - let us remember that they are elementary principles of economy - helps through wealth. I've never seen socialism without capital. And we have to realize that. The redistribution of income and all those forms of economic approach of the Marxist style, which still lodge also in this Upper Chamber, but especially in Italy, lead to an infection of the economy. And this infection will be very heavy especially on the real poor, who will not have the help and the possibilities that should be given them instead. Forza Italia has always fought in this direction and has taken extremely important measures in defense of the weak classes. I wonder if, at this point, you really are convinced that all the audience to which you have told will go the income of citizenship will actually benefit from it. I believe that there will be many more discontented people and those who will get it, perhaps by being smart and, above all, familiar with bureaucracy. Those people will thus be able to fool - as they say - those who truly find themselves in poverty. For these reasons, I believe that our Group will have to vote firmly against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are certainly talking about the most important measure for the Government and the majority that supports it. Senator Catalfo has even defined it as historic. I wouldn't bother the story for the moment. We can call this immediately relevant first of all because of the impact it generates on public finance balances: over EUR 40 billion over the three years, all financed through debt. As noted by the Parliamentary Budget Office - and this is the first structural measure that determines it - the effects on debt are structural and the increase in the debt of the State, which will result in the measure in the three-year period, also becomes structural. When I think of the accusations that have been made in this House in a few minutes, which have been misguided and thrown by those who forget that debt is measured in relation to GDP, the accusations that have been made to the Democratic Party of debt increase, I am obliged to remember that this measure first of all makes the increase in debt structural by downloading on the younger generations, on the Italy that produces, works, which is struggling the burdens of this structural increase in debt. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have tabled many amending proposals: I think I can say this strongly, because all this is demonstrated by our acts and by the various proposals that have been put forward in the Commission in the referee. Yes, we say this forcefully: we have another idea to combat poverty, we have another idea to support active labour policies, and we have another idea and another vision of how it would have been necessary to intervene on pensions. I repeat that in the face of all our proposals there have been no answers from the majority and the government; something that I believe is unsustainable, a wasted opportunity, a political error of the majority, precisely because through the confrontation the quality of the debate grows and precisely because only through the confrontation can we widen the horizon and look a little further than the three-year period and a little deeper into the needs of the future of this country. On the contrary, while we were faced with a third reading in the Budget Committee, even if we were faced with the limits that the third reading determines in the amending proposals, we had to relive the nightmare of the law of stability, that is, a technical report was presented to us and it was claimed that, without reading that document, in a few minutes, an opinion should be given. Moreover, by renouncing any kind of deepening, there are also many ambiguities, which mark a bad political management of the measure, both at first and second reading in the House, and in this third reading in the Senate. Several of our amending proposals have found the opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution only because they made the audience of those entitled more uncertain and we are faced with technical reports that, in the uncertainty of the audience, do not detect burdens for public finance. If there had been a comparison of merit, we could have improved the measure together, because the Democratic Party has always stressed the need to increase resources to support poverty and to counter them in the territorial dimension. If we looked up for a moment and returned a correct centrality to the person, we would immediately realize that active labour policies are not superimposed and cannot be confused with the actions necessary to combat poverty in the territorial dimension. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This leads me to say with great authority - it has remembered very well before the relative rapporteur - than to conclude in third reading this provision, with the assumption of elements in the Forces of the order (in the Guard of finance and the Arm of the carabinieri) - all endowments probably necessary and still insufficient regarding the job that the State must guarantee in the system of control and safety of our Country - instead of 6,000 or 7,000 social assistants to place in the territorial dimension in order to counter the poverty [[Applause from the PD Group]] strengthens in us the conviction that this income of citizenship, as has been thought, will leave in the territorial dimension new poverty, even stronger, that they will remain in solitude in the territorial dimension because they did not want to strengthen the take-over of poverty, which can only come in the territorial dimension. We had to hire a social worker by district, we had to train them in relation to the new social dimensions of the phenomenon, which is very complex and very different, we have mentioned it several times. Not necessarily who is poor can find a job and not necessarily an unemployed person is poor: they are two different cases, two different people, who probably need two completely separate actions. That is why it was right to increase resources to support poverty, just as it was right, on the other hand, to restore the centrality of active policies through the reform of the employment centre system. These actions have been confused and the outcome (with regard to not recalling history) in my opinion will be negative. Time will be gallant man and will demonstrate the effects of this measure. Mr President, it is not with the ideology of the past that the economy of the future and the present is growing. Let us remember that we are faced with a country in recession on the economic level, which pours a growing debt on the younger generations. If I look at the priorities and the future of our country, at the question if it would have been right to increase the resources for poverty, I answer yes in the territorial dimension, but it would have been more natural not to say that Fornero is abolished, because it is not true. Compared to the staircase that we should recover in three years, in fact, probably those who will be to the Government will not have sufficient resources to eliminate it in the face of the macroeconomic context that is consolidating. That is why we strongly say that this is an ideological measure; useful for an ideology, but probably wrong in the matter in order to guarantee a better future for the economic growth of our country. I think - I repeat - that time will be a gentleman and we hope that we will return to the future and to the younger generations and not to the elections. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u27	Mr President, I have to discuss a measure which is based on a reality in our country, that of poverty, which would have needed a lot of other measures. We have turned a strong criticism to a vision that we thought wrong, but at the same time maintaining our characteristic: when we vote or debate the laws, we always think we do something in the interest of the entire population of our country and then we tried to help to improve the text of the provision. You had forgotten that poverty is most felt by families in whom there is a disabled person. Mrs Toffanin reminded you that you have only partially accepted the complaint of a formidable mistake: if we compare those who earn, for example, 9,000 euros and do not have a disabled person in the family and those who earn 15,000 and have a disabled person in the family, the latter is most likely, in some conditions, poorer. That is the reality. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But you went on like a train without taking into account anything. The other night we saw the correct text coming back from the House - as the members of the Justice Commission know very well. What was introduced to the House? The provision that the suspension of the provision of citizenship income shall apply to the beneficiary or applicant who has had a non-final conviction for certain of the crimes referred to in Article 7 or who is subject to precautionary measures shall be corrected, but it is also provided that the same suspension shall apply (probably many of you have not even read it) to the fugitive beneficiary or applicant within the meaning of Article 296 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or who has voluntarily evaded the execution of the sentence. Do you realize the absurdity? In a measure that is based exclusively on the relationship of trust between the State and the citizen, which should correctly state what its conditions are, we even expect the suspension of citizenship income if the beneficiary is a fugitive. I do not want to discuss paragraph 5 of the same article of the text coming from the Chamber that deals with the restoration of the payment of the amounts due in case of revocation of the suspension of the benefit. This is a situation that we really cannot accept. However, we had tabled a number of amendments. I would remind you that I had pointed out in this House, even with an amendment, the unconstitutionality of the 45-year limit for those who had to redeem the periods to be assessed with a contributory system. You said no without motivation, but it is a feature of this majority. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. Part of the majority cannot immediately perceive the corrections that are not intended to be politically opposed. When I presented the above-mentioned correction, which had its constitutional justification, it seemed to me that there was not even an opportunity to discuss it. We arrived at the House, where fortunately we had some time and, after reflecting, they accepted the amendment which had received the opposite opinion here. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is enough to look at the sanctions provided for in Article 7. We made corrections because it is not possible to imagine that in a relationship based on trust in the event that the beneficiaries do not comply with any of the commitments made to obtain the income of citizenship they decide to subtract only one month the first time they are wrong. Then you can miss a second and a third time and only in the fourth you will lose the benefit. It is a logic that probably only presides over the fact that it is a contribution that must be given to satisfy those who will vote. And that's a logic that doesn't belong to us. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u28	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last today the parliamentary process of this key measure of the budgetary maneuver for 2019 arrives at its last vote. Finally, today we are discussing the final text, as amended, revised and improved by Parliament. I am proud to have participated in the success of this measure that finally gives back to the Italians those rights that had been denied in particular since that fateful 2011. A measure which, on the one hand, restores the possibility of anticipating the pension to tens of thousands of workers and, on the other hand, helps those citizens in economic difficulties, perhaps unemployed, perhaps employed but with insufficient income, to find a job with dignity. Personally, I have never been passionate about the speech on citizenship income, but the great work of Parliament has led to a formulation that manages to link closely the contribution against poverty to integration and reintegration into work, avoiding the best access to the benefit for the so-called smart people. I am thinking of the residence requirements, the checks on real estate, the planned monitoring of changes of residence from 1 September 2019 and, in order to avoid discrimination between Italians and foreigners, arrives the so-called Lodi standard by which also citizens of States not belonging to the European Union are required to produce the appropriate certification issued by the competent authority of the foreign State, translated into Italian language and legalized by the Italian consular authority. Persons who are subject to personal protective measures or those who have been convicted in certain criminal cases shall be excluded from their citizenship income. In short, everything converges in a measure whose focus is work. At 100 I do not know whether more jobs will be created than will benefit from the pension advance, but one thing is certain: new jobs will be created. Of 100 already many words have been said. I want to remind you that this is a historic struggle of the League. All my colleagues in my Group will remember the days spent under the gazebos collecting signatures for the abolition of the Fornero law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I personally, in my Piossasco, have collected many signatures. We have experienced the discomfort of a large group of unfairly penalized workers and today, with a quota of 100, we have found the best formula to overcome the Fornero law, the formula to achieve the objective of giving the possibility to the workers, who have already contributed so much to the productive fabric of our country, to retire up to five years before. Of course 100 is a fairly intuitive measure (minimum sixty-two years of age and at least thirty-eight years of contributions), then improved for early workers and many other situations, but I would like to bring you today a life witness. My friend Walter will be sixty-three years old in June; he has been working for forty-one years, doing a satisfying job, not usurping, but stressful, because he is always on the road. He has some health problems and, with the Fornero law, he would have had to wait March 2021 to retire. Well, gentlemen, Walter will retire next May: he says he will learn to love himself and finally he will be able to devote himself more to his family. Thank you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u30	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u31	Mr President, I believe that the watchword that has bounced off all the speeches made by the opposition, both on our part and on the part of the Democratic Party, is based on the concept of confusion. The decree-law we are discussing is above all confusing and I want to explain myself, because it is precisely from the clarity that could have been done and that instead it has not been wanted to do that will then depend on the effective application and the results that can be achieved or not thanks to this measure. The first confusion is made by putting together policies for poverty, which meet situations and contexts in which people's needs are, for example, those related to health (I think of the great category of disabilities, chronic patients and rare diseases), with those aimed at those who do not have concrete conditions of training and skills achieved, with a training profile, not only school, but also professional and apprenticeship. For these people the measures should have had a totally different flavor: they should have called into question in a much more substantial way what is from a certain point of view the invisible Ministry for the Family and Disabilities the even less visible Undersecretary for the Family and the Disabilities. I am not aware of any concrete measures that have been taken in this key in this year of government. The measures should also have called into question the Ministry of Education, University and Research to see what skills our young people actually develop after high school, after a degree course, after a master's degree and a doctorate. Why don't they get a job? Why can't people with very high skills profiles find work? There is a possibility that these skills may not be agreed or in some way properly harmonised with the current demands of the world of work. I am very concerned, Mr President, that the only people who can actually find work with the adoption of this measure are navigators. I am concerned about what profile of competence the navigators will have, because it is clear that implementing this harmonisation, by matching demand and job search with the possibility of finding work, having a contract and being permanently included in the world of work, involves very complex steps. Instead, the passage to the Chamber had an incremental value from the perspective of the culture of suspicion: I have heard of cunning. It is possible, but we have increased above all the presence of the Finance Guard and the Carabinieri, we have even established bodies and hierarchical profiles of presence and we have not really worried about doing the most normal thing for every territory, which is the map of that area with the actual possibilities of work that that territory offers [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , to activate that training pact that actually puts the kids in a position to be not only trained, but also trained according to the job. It is clear that the famous 780 euros seem a lot if we compare them with the 500 euros that many people working in call centers can perceive [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , but if a person moves out of his family and territory, how can he maintain himself? In other words, there are structural ambiguities in the Decree-Law under consideration. Let me also refer to a question that seems to occupy the horizon of hopes, on the one hand, and mistrust, on the other: will there really be a new person who will enter the world of work for every person who comes out of the world of work? I also wonder if we are sure that the wisdom and experience accumulated over time will be able to respond to the new competences, even those developed in the field of digitalization, able also to guarantee to all the policy of the public employment a renewal of the bureaucratic work, that today as today is really a cemetery of elephants? Are we sure that from this can derive a real increase in the quality of the country's development or will we have simply weighed down our bureaucratic-administrative machine, taking away hope and losing a great opportunity? I should like to conclude by saying that it remains a very sad thing for me to think that the poorest of the poor, the poor homeless and homeless, will not even be able to aspire to the measures under discussion. We discussed whether it was the sans papier or the homeless or whatever you want to call them; we have a material experience coming out of the Senate on the side of San Luigi dei Francesi, where there is the House of Mercy, where there is a cafeteria. These people will not be able to aspire to the measures contained in the measure under consideration, because they lack basic requirements which are formal, since the only really substantial requirement is the documented, experimental poverty and misery of these people. Not having thought of them is an additional vulnus of the decree-law under consideration [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u32	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u33	Mr President, today we in the 5 Star Movement are excited and happy because we are about to finally adopt a set of rules that will contribute concretely to making more live millions of Italians that bad politics had forgotten or ignored and that we, instead, put at the center of our action. We are finally about to approve a measure that is one of the pillars of the political proposal of Movimento 5 Stars; a measure that aims to counter the progressive impoverishment of millions of Italians who do not find work or who, while working, are under the poverty line being exploited and vexed; a measure that aims to improve active policies for the job, to increase pensions and to overcome the wretched Fornero law. We arrive today after years of opposition to the other political forces on these issues, because the Movimento 5 Stars has proposed the income of citizenship and the overcoming of the Fornero law since its entry into Parliament in 2013. This political opposition was total, and it was reiterated yesterday and today by the opposition colleagues. There are those who, like them, describe some millions of Italians as idlers, as crooks, as people who will remain on the couch and will easily perceive the income of citizenship. And there are those who, like us in Movimento 5 Stars, want to help these fellow countrymen affected by the economic crisis, austerity policies and inequalities that have increased to an extent since 2011. Above all, there are those who, like us in the 5 Star Movement, want to implement, after seventy years, Article 38 of our beloved Constitution, which states that "workers are entitled to be provided and insured means adapted to their living needs in the event of accident, illness, invalidity and old age, involuntary unemployment". I repeat: means adapted to their living needs in the event of involuntary unemployment. The answer to this problem is in the income of citizenship and active labour policies, which we now fully approve. In recent years and months, and even today, the opposition between the Movimento 5 Stars, which wants to implement constitutional principles, and some political forces and some economic-financial powers, who want to leave things as they are, has become clear, perhaps because it is convenient to keep millions of Italians in need and despair to whom, perhaps, to ask for the vote and support for each electoral round. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Among other things, this contrast between different political and socio-economic views is manifested to the truth intermittently, because in the electoral campaign you were all in favour of the income of citizenship. In this regard, Berlusconi's statements, which wanted to give a citizenship income not of EUR 780 per month - although today you say it is a lot - are unforgettable, but of EUR 1,000 per month. Except then take back the electoral promise, as usual. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Fortunately for the Italians, the Movimento 5 Stars is different, does not forget the electoral commitments, indeed keeps them, and in this case transforms them into legal provisions in only eight months of government. The income of citizenship will radically change the life and future of millions of Italians who today suffer, because it will not be a welfare aid - as we have heard today - but it will be implemented by an efficient and articulated system of active policies for the job, based on the centers for the employment that will finally be put in a position to work well also thanks to the thousands of new hirings of operators, to which the navigators who will take charge of the beneficiaries of the income of citizenship and will accompany them, step by step, until the new employment. In addition, the unitary information system of labour policies will be implemented, which will be linked to the unitary information system of social services, which will allow to interconnect all existing databases, so that each worker knows the training and skills, to be made available to companies present on the national territory. The total investment in active labour policies will be around 2 billion in 2019-2020. These interventions will help to bridge the gap that exists in this area between our and other European countries, which is the son of the wrong labour policies of previous governments. By way of comparison, it is thought that 100,000 and 54,000 employees work in employment centres in Germany and France respectively: these are huge numbers compared to our current (8,000). It is no coincidence that the unemployment rates in these two countries are 5% in Germany and 8.9% in France, while in Italy at the moment they are above 10%. Sometimes, in fact, it happens that the offer of job exists, but that it is not satisfied because they have never been prepared tools to cross supply and demand. Suffice it to say that, at present, employment centres do not communicate with one another and that, even, some of them do not have their own website. But all this will change. The structural reform that we are finally approving today will help to put back in the circuit of training and active job search also a part of those more than 3 million inactive who, for years, no longer seek work effectively. And this very important aspect of our reform, namely the expected influx of these discouraged and inactive into employment centres, will allow us to revise upwards the rate of labour force participation which, for the calculation method adopted in Europe, will contribute to the growth of potential GDP, which will improve public finances. Moreover, in addition to these considerations, there are many others of a strictly economic nature, which should make people constantly talk about the market, liberalism and growth. In fact, to continue to have 5 million poor people, who inevitably remain on the margins of society, constitutes a real economic damage for the entire country, because these unfortunate fellow citizens of ours have not been able to contribute, up to now, to the progress and to the collective well-being and, for example, have become sick to a greater extent than others and therefore have benefited to a greater extent from the National Health Service, thus constituting an additional cost for the State. Ultimately, the benefits that will bring our country the income of citizenship do not see only those who cover their eyes, because they do not want to see them. As far as the notorious Fornero law is concerned, in the electoral campaign we of the Movimento 5 Stars had undertaken to overcome it, establishing the so-called 100 quota, favoring the generational turnover, freeing up jobs for young people and thus rejuvenating and improving the skills of the workforce. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In essence, the measure under consideration takes the first step towards resolving that frightening generational conflict, which forced thousands of over 65 years of age to continue working and which caused the unemployment or emigration of hundreds of thousands of young people. Thanks to the measure under consideration, strongly wanted by the Movimento 5 Stars, a million workers in the next three years will be able to anticipate the pension up to five years compared to the requirements of the Fornero law. In conclusion, today we do not only approve of a law that has been awaited for years by millions of Italians who suffer. Today comes to completion an important part of a political journey, a piece of our lives as activists and spokesperson of the Movimento 5 Stars, which was worth living. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mangialavori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u35	Mr President, members of the Government, I begin my speech with a conviction: welfare is one of the most important and noble achievements of the political action of the last century. However, we must be careful, because current international policies, often inspired by a process of radical liberalism and globalization without humanism, are sweeping away many pieces of welfare. In order to protect all this, I believe that we need a lot more approach, a lot more knowledge and a lot more political vision. Ahinoi, the demagogic wave of the 5 Stars, fortunately now falling, makes even confrontation difficult. Before we go on to talk about the income of citizenship, I think it is even necessary to make a premise. Coming from one of the poor regions of the country, I know perfectly well the suffering of many young people in search of employment, of many women, graduates and not, of traders, who unfortunately had to close their business because of the crisis, of many professionals now unable to continue their activity, of many middle-aged workers who have lost their jobs. With these categories I also compare myself daily and, alas, the greatest frustration is that of not being able to offer them an immediate answer and a solution to their problems. In order to alleviate this discomfort, we must continue to identify ways of strengthening welfare, but, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we need above all to create jobs, jobs, development and strategic investments. The occasional measures such as the income of citizenship limited over time and absolutely disconnected from any prospect of growth unfortunately do not offer any remedy. On the substance of the proposal for citizenship income, it must be said first of all that it could be allocated to an absolutely lower audience than those who would need it. In fact, the discrepancy between the INPS data and the government data is before everyone's eyes, but you, colleagues in the government, have not taken any notice of it at all. We are faced with a real bailamme, with the risk that large sections of the population in poverty will not be reached by this measure. Unfortunately, this will result in discrimination in discrimination, which will lead to social envy and a war between the poor that Italy absolutely does not need. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Then there is the question of the questions: how many are the chances that an unemployed person receiving citizenship income - I always think of my Calabria Region - will be offered in eighteen months not one or two, but three suitable job proposals? I wonder one thing: an unemployed Calabrian, who knows perfectly his territory and his companies, what benefit should he derive from a navigator, also precarious and who comes from somewhere, to whom no guarantee is offered to be able to help him? [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] Yeah, I don't think so. Gentlemen of the Government, in other words, you have concentrated on setting up new activities and new shops (which would be these employment centers), you have committed yourself to hiring on a fixed time of salesmen and workers (who are the navigators), but you have not in any way posed the problem of finding the goods to offer and, that is, the job. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] With regard to quota 100, the risk is that one hundred risks becoming the retirement age of the new generation because, unfortunately, these bad choices have a very high economic price that will pay, in particular, future generations. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Ludovico Geymonat) of Tradate, in the province of Varese, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to begin by talking about the first part of the 'decreton' and, that is, basic income. As a premise I would like to say that I will pretend that the ideal conditions are respected, as happens in physics and, that is, that the perceptors are really poor, there are no scams, false layoffs and other owls of this type. [[Comments of Senator Marco Pellegrini]] That said, such a payment should theoretically be a basic income and, as such, totally free from demands of a working nature. That is the spirit and I would totally agree with such an intervention. The purpose of a basic income is to be a redistributive measure, but this is not because it is not financed by taxation on profits, assets or large incomes. Regardless of whether or not it agrees with this philosophy of taxation and redistribution, this principle is not respected. It is paid, therefore, by the indistinguishable audience of taxpayers because the greater debt and debt burdens are paid by the indistinct community. Secondly, it is not a measure that generates wealth, unfortunately. Even in this case mathematics, luckily, always comes to help us. The first estimate that came out says that this measure - which is not even called citizenship income - will not go only to Italian citizens, as it had been promised for a long time - will result in an increase in GDP of about 0.2 per cent, compared with a potential erosion of GDP of 0.4 to 0.5 per cent, because the ratio of resources invested to GDP is between 0.4 and 0.5 per cent. This means that there is a national net impoverishment that is worth about 0.2-0.3 percent of GDP, and that is a number. So the famous Keynesian multiplier, which was invoked to say that this maneuver would generate more than it cost, is sadly 0.5:1 is the draw threshold; more than one is the threshold in which the community earns it; less than one loses. Unfortunately - and I say unfortunately, because I am personally in favour of an unconditional income - this measure involves a national net impoverishment, because purchases, assuming of course that every perpetrator makes an ethical purchase, will be diverted (being low-income perceptors) to basic necessities: consumer goods, not durable goods. Consumer goods, as we know, are mostly imported. So whenever we buy something that is an import asset there will be a net outflow of foreign capital. If even the spirit was "buy Italian", unfortunately a person who has little disposable income goes to buy something that costs little; therefore, net outflow of capital. In this regard, I have an impact on the ethical control of purchases. Assuming that this kind of thing had been done ideally, unfortunately it makes me think a lot about the famous anniversary card: the right to acquire a basket of goods and services that are established at national ethical level. Colleagues, this is not a good thing; it is not at all. I am not going to dwell on controls, because obviously the amount of insufficient controls that are put in place makes it clear that the actual transposition of an ideal measure can rarely work. I have already set the example: I can take this card, put it in an envelope, send it to a relative who is in Costa Rica; this person makes purchases, puts it back in the envelope, puts the cash, sends it back to me and everything is regular, because there is not even a check on the location of the payment. This is another important aspect to take into account. I do a very short cut - and I conclude - on 100. I fully agree with any measures that allow early exit from the labour market, but I would like the following problem to be raised in this House and in the future: how do we want to transform the Italian pension system? Very practically on what is the pension system based? On a projection of the median residual lifespan. The INPS makes this kind of calculation and says that if the median life lasts tot and you retire at a certain date, then there is a positive imbalance for the social security institution, with the consequence that the social security institution is self-supporting. The 100 quota, of course, is a temporary measure but in the future, with the increase of average and median life, the sustainability of a pension system or becomes a Ponzi scheme or is completely revised, for example, with the issue of the reduction of working time, something that has been talked about for many years that is never implemented. Parliament's task now and for the future is this, because without this the concept of sustainability will never exist and we will have to address the problem of people who will have to work until 70 years because the average and median of life will have moved forward by five, six, seven or eight years. In conclusion, there is a conflict of interest with the State which, on the one hand, protects health, therefore prolongs life in health, and, on the other hand, conflicts with interest with itself, because it is negative for itself that life extends and that the honesty of the retirement of persons is incompatible with the previous case. This is a subject that we should all put to ourselves. [[Applause from Senator Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, that the measure we are discussing today, with particular reference to the income of citizenship, is the most striking case of misleading publicity in this parliamentary term - and perhaps even in the past - I think it is now clear to everyone. It is also clear to the Italians, given the electoral results that the Movimento 5 Stars is achieving where, thanks to misleading advertising of citizenship income, only a year ago it had achieved Bulgarian percentages. It is misleading advertising, ladies and gentlemen, because a simple calculator is enough to realize that 780 euros per month with the sums allocated by law can satisfy only 750,000 people, while, assuming an audience of 5 million people, as the Minister Di Maio did, the result would be very simple: 133 euros per person. Misleading publicity, as many of my colleagues have already told me, to achieve a few more votes at the next European elections. However, even if this were not the case, it is clear that this measure is a powerful incentive to undeclared work. According to the Association artisans and small enterprises (CGIA) of Mestre the workers in black today are approximately 2 million. It is difficult to imagine that the income of citizenship does not go to much of them too. I would remind you that 4.2 million Italian taxpayers receive less than 10,000 euros per year, mainly young people and women living in the South. And it is in particular in the South that 43% of employees earn less than 9,360 euros; the 858 euros per month that would represent the fair offer according to the measure in our examination. A soldier earns 850 euros a month, a policeman earns from 1,100 to 1,200 euros a month. In a situation like this, it doesn't take a scientist to understand that in addition to being an incentive to black work, the measure will also be an equally powerful measure to discourage people from looking for a real job. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] That's what you're doing. All over the world, where the citizenship income has been applied, experts have established that it must never exceed 50% of the minimum income in force in the country. Exactly the opposite of what you're doing. And that this is a criminal norm, you recognize it yourself. As the Finance Guard states, 40% of ISEE statements are not truthful. That's why the House decided to hire 100 finance officers and 65 carabinieri to check the statements and practices of citizens' income beneficiaries. You have put new police officers not to prosecute crimes, not to fight crime, but to control the ISEE statements and practices of beneficiaries of citizenship income because you realize very well that you are passing a law that will result in thousands of thousands of people committing crimes. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Papatheu]] You're making a law to get poor people to commit crimes! That is what you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. We of Brothers of Italy had said that the road was another, that of encouraging companies to hire and create real work, not welfare to leave people on the couch all day long. We had proposed - and you rejected them - EUR 20,000 de-contribution for every new business hired: this would create real work. We had also asked for the doubling of the poor invalidity pensions for those who really need it, but you also rejected it. We asked for maternity income to ensure that Italy was not the last country in the world for new births [[Applause from the FdI Group]] But you rejected this too. What is more rage in this law, however, is that we know very well not only that income will go to so many smart people, perhaps to the detriment of decent people, who would really need it, but that there is one thing even more shameful: you give citizenship income also to criminals, to robbers, to murderers, to those who exploit prostitution, to pedophiles and to an infinite number of criminals. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Yes, gentlemen: having rejected our amendment, which called for the exclusion of all those who have been sentenced for more than two years, that is exactly the case. Even the rule inserted by the House, for which those who have been or are subjected to a personal precautionary measure would be excluded, is ridiculous. It does not take a jurist to know that precautionary measures today can only be applied in specific and specific cases (grave clues of guilt, danger of escape, danger of pollution of evidence and recurrence of the crime), so it may well be that, if these requirements are lacking, even those who are charged with serious crimes remain free. This measure of yours approved in the House, therefore, is only a palliative and, once again, a way to throw smoke in people's eyes and confuse decent people, making them believe that it will have certain effects while it will have many more. As several colleagues have already said before, this money will go to those who are not entitled and to non-EU citizens who have just arrived in Italy: you know very well that the requirement to reside in Italy for at least ten years is unconstitutional, in fact lawyers from non-EU countries are already ready to appeal to the Constitutional Court, which will certainly declare this requirement unconstitutional. At the same time, you deny the income of citizenship to Italians who work abroad and want to return to Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]] This is the rule that you are approving, and that is why we, the Brothers of Italy, will not only vote against this bill, but will start tomorrow to collect signatures for the repealing referendum of this legislation. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u40	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is growing uncertainty among our companies and increasing those that expect a drop in productivity: it is Istat who speaks to you, after having photographed in color the production sector of our country. And you, political forces of the majority, who support the government, what do you do? Celebrate the regional elections, which you have won; celebrate your consensus organisation; wait with particular attention for the European elections, convinced that you can celebrate on that occasion too. However, this consensus is organized on what? On what grounds? On fear - yes, on fear - and built on promises and a debt that we Italians, future generations and businesses will pay. How and what do you respond to business? How and how do you respond to young people and the unemployed? How and what do you respond to the South of the country, crying tears of pain? With the income of citizenship, that is, with a subsidy: the worst therapy a political force can develop. And it is clear that this therapy given to Italians has not been developed by Movimento 5 Stars. It would be too convenient, friends and colleagues of the League. This is an elaborate therapy, built, conceived and scientifically studied by the Government. If things go well, the merit will be of the Government; if things go wrong, the demerit will be mainly of the League, which has allowed this kind of iattura. 11:41 a.m. (Laus follow). You had the opportunity to listen to the auditions during the first reading exam at the Senate and the House, many suggestions were proposed. There was the possibility of correcting a text, which I believe is incomparable, but we nevertheless tried and carried out a constructive amending activity. However, those few changes made to the Chamber of Deputies have only made the path more crooked, bringing only a few minor changes. We read the first macroscopic twist in Article 1 of the decree-law, as I have already said several times in the Commission in the referee. How can one think of writing at the beginning of a measure of this scale, which has social aims to intercept poverty and solve this distressing problem: Is the RDC an essential level of performance within the limits of available resources? This is a contradiction in terms: it is not possible to guarantee essential levels of performance and then bind them to the compatibility of resources. This is not a subjective right. Do we or you explain it to the Italians? [[Applause from the PD Group]] You cannot explain it to the Italians, because you are facing the European elections based on distorted communication and illusionist professionals. As has already been said - we have said this in every way and every occasion - it is a measure that basically mortifies the large families and those within which there are unfortunately - alas - disabled, for which the difficulty of "deploying the lunar" is increasing. And mortify also those families within which there are children. We told you in all sauces to correct the equivalence scale. No, you didn't. You made one up. [[Applause from the PD Group]] And I wonder who is this scientist who has worked out a solution of this magnitude. Do not ask me: ask the associations, the third sector, if I have seen well or I have seen badly. In Article 8, then, on incentives for the enterprise and for the worker, avoid in a scientific way to encourage companies that give temporary or part-time work, preferring, as an alternative, that people continue to receive the income of citizenship. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. Mr Laus (PD). President. - I shall begin with the conclusion. I had a lot more to say, but I'll just say one. Quota 100 is a real lottery, which will be paid by future generations and - on this you can rest assured, colleagues - other than the abolition of the Fornero law: in the coming months will come a Fornero- bis and a Monti- bis. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Only surnames will change, but sacrifices will be doubled and you will have to go and explain yourself in every corner of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u42	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u43	Mr. President, I was in December 2011... AIROLA (M5S). You've been convicted of firing blackmail and intimidation from the fourth criminal section of Turin! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, be good! Allow the discussion of the decree, please, I recall it for the first time. Mr Laus (PD). I'm not going to hell. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Rivolta. RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President, I will begin my speech again, since I can now do so thanks to your calls. I didn't vote for the Fornero law in 2011. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] because I was immediately convinced that it was not the right way. I have not limited myself to that, but like all the other colleagues under the gazebos for many days I have spent time collecting signatures and listening to the stories of the people who subscribed to our proposal. They were stories of very normal people, who had made life plans and who saw the same completely destroyed. Those programs of life very often provided for a change, the idea of retiring and thus being able to help their children and grandchildren, or to help the great elderly, allowing their family members to enter the world of work, to continue working, to return after a motherhood as soon as possible, in short, to have a normal life (but I could tell you many other things). This has been prevented. We, therefore, immediately said that this measure was wrong and we did everything we could to remove it. With this decree, we begin to cancel a large part of it and this is a success. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When I hear certain statements, as on the part of my colleague who accused us of using the decree-law, allow me to ask if we remember what happened in the past legislatures, in which it was only legislated with the decree of urgency (of course both right and left, but this was the mode). It seems to me that this is the first parliamentary term during which the urgent decree is used much less, and I think this is progress in favour of Parliament's dignity, to begin with. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to give another answer to Mr Missa, who complained about a lot of things: I remember softly that we are starting from your results, that they have not been so brilliant. Maybe you thought you'd do better, but these are the results. I have already said this once more here in this House: if we do a survey among teachers, more than speak well of the law on good school, we are asked for a quota of 100. Everyone this year kept asking us when we were going to move on to 100. This is an answer we think is right, because if it is true that another of the emergencies is to allow the creation of new families and finally an increase in the birth rate, we must move on from this replacement. It makes me smile sincerely that many of my colleagues are talking about a situation where it is either white or black, that is, it is all geniuses who retire, while all those who enter are stupid. In Italy there are people who retire and who may have stole the job, because they were a bit lazy, as we say in Lombardy, as well as there are people on the threshold of the pension who are very smart and super performing. We also have very motivated young people who have managed to take brilliant courses of study and have arrived to the degree or directly to the profession attending technical institutes. They can be excellent workers and excellent workers. This change is necessary, otherwise our country absolutely does not go ahead. The decree-law, among other things, has been improved in the House, where changes have been made - we have not been able to do so here and Members have done so - on the subject of disabled people. I would remind you that funds that had been zeroed in the past, such as those for the transport of people with disabilities, have been included: EUR 100 million. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We're talking numbers. We then take responsibility for carrying forward this measure with citizenship income and 100 quota. We believe that it is certainly a proposal made with an important budget of funds, but your policies of the past - I repeat - have not worked; we need an expansive maneuver, if necessary even in deficit. The important thing is that we can remove that economy and that - as we have said on a thousand other occasions - GDP can increase. We believe in it and it is a challenge that we launch, but we are convinced that it is because we perceive every day (and not only that those who gain income or will be able to access 100 but also from other subjects, such as entrepreneurs and artisans) that something is changing for the better. This country must and can leave. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u45	Mr President, after the substantive remarks my Group has made, allow me to add a few of them of a general nature. The bill on our examination will have an impact on both the life of Italians and public accounts. It will have it on the life of the poorest Italians that we have always had at heart (the purchase card invented it by the Berlusconi Government and it is good to remember it always), but it will also have it on the life of all the other Italians, because the choices of economic character or economic politics can never be considered neutral. It is not enough therefore to say that with the income of citizenship we help the poor, as the two Vice-Premiers have said; the measure contained in this bill can no longer be sold with the arguments of electoral propaganda. Now it has precise numbers (the recipients are about 1.3 million) and precise estimates of expenditure: 6.2 billion euros this year and 7 billion euros in regime. A number of families will certainly be helped, but many others will be left out, since the people considered as poor in Italy are 5 million. The last ones will not be helped because at least 1.5 million of the real poor will remain excluded from any benefit, as has been mentioned in this House in a speech prior to mine by Senator Binetti, as well as of course - outside this House - by associations like Caritas. To take the income there will certainly be the most skilful, the most eager to distangle themselves to a measure that, like all those with a strong welfare vocation, lends itself to being bypassed. It is therefore a welfare intervention, which will have social effects similar to those created so far by the false invalidity pensions, the income guaranteed to socially useful workers and the humanitarian reception granted to foreigners. But above all it must be remembered - and I repeat - that all Italians will pay for it. Everything must also be said about the slogan shouted in the electoral campaign by one of the Vice Premier: "First the Italians". On the other hand, we know that the technical report speaks of some 241,000 foreigners, but that it could be 480,000 if the decisions repeatedly reiterated by the Council were accepted, so that five years would be the limit of long stay, which would double the number of foreigners. Therefore, foreigners who take more than a third of the allowances come first in this law and the same term "citizenship" does not seem to be appropriate for this form of income support. Above all, it cannot be considered a measure for integration and reintegration into the world of work due to the lack of work supply through the centres for employment and bureaucratic tortuousness of the required path. The employment centres - I repeat today - are absolutely unprepared to manage all these practices and have not had the time to reorganise themselves. The legislator must first reorganize the bureaucratic machine and only after it provides for laws of this kind, not the other way round. But let us return to the aspects of public finance: in the budget law two funds have been created using new debt for more than EUR 11 billion to accommodate the measures envisaged by this measure. I begin to conclude, Mr President, not without reminding you that today, in this House, we should not have talked about the Commission's work but should have talked about the members of the Commission's budget and finances. In fact, today's estimates of "Il Sole 24 Ore", which are certainly not from this newspaper but from the most authoritative rating companies, say that Italy will go from a growth in gross domestic product of one percent to 0.2% and that the deficit-GDP ratio is no longer 2.04 but we are already at 2.3 or 2.4 percent. All this inevitably means that you, with this law, are providing aid to poverty, you are providing jobs in such a way that I consider unfamiliar and you are running the pension system with a 100 quota (a provision that, as I said yesterday, we do not like little because of its scale and its limited time), but you have not provided to cover the new burdens that the law provides for. Mr President, let us be clear, because Salvini and Di Maio did not do so, that by adopting this law we will have to increase taxes and increase taxes at the moment means, Mr President, giving a fatal blow to some companies that are already in crisis; it means creating new unemployment and not combating poverty or new employment. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u46	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, many economists of the past, such as James Meade, Oskar Lange, also conservatives such as von Hayek, Milton Friedman and Karl Polanyi, have supported the economic and social need for an instrument of income support in the various varieties of social assistance, guaranteed income, social dividend and minimum income. 11:59 a.m. (Followed by the ABBATE). The need for an instrument such as citizenship income finds its basis in the Italian Constitution in Articles 3 and 38, in which it is considered necessary to intervene by the State in removing the economic and social obstacles limiting the freedom and equality of citizens. The right to the maintenance and social assistance of the poor, the poor and the unemployed is established. Article 14 of the European Pillar of Social Rights clearly establishes the right to minimum income to ensure a decent life and considers it useful to combine this minimum income with incentives for integration into the labour market. In times of crisis, such as the one that has affected most of Europe since 2009 onwards, instruments such as minimum income are necessary to stabilise or at least compensate for the negative cycle, support consumption, aggregate demand and therefore the economy, avoiding also and especially the explosion of poverty. This, however, is what happened because, according to Eurostat data of 2016, Italy turns out to be the ninth country for poverty levels and this before social transfers (which indicates that there is a serious imbalance of our economic system in social terms) its position worsens in fact after the transfers, reaching seventh place, to indicate a low efficiency of our social system, precisely because of the absence of an instrument of last social instance such as the income of citizenship. In 2017 Istat estimated in Italy an absolute poverty of 1,778 million families: we speak of 5,058 million individuals, a huge number. This poverty rate has continued to grow steadily since 2014, because two long recessions have damaged the social fabric of the country. Citizenship income had to be established long ago, but that was not the case. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The old system has probably failed: that is what we are trying to understand. In this country, the right importance has never been given to work, workers and families, all of which have been dealt with only marginally or during election campaigns. The first of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda, linked to the implementation of all others, is to defeat poverty. This means that acting with instruments to combat poverty, such as citizenship income, is indispensable for achieving the other 16 sustainability objectives, including economic stability and reducing inequalities. The goodness of our measure is also confirmed by the BES indicator, i.e. the fair and sustainable welfare indicator. Forgive me, I will not talk about GDP because GDP has never told us anything about the poverty that continues to increase in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa]] It doesn't say anything about the well-being of citizens, while we're talking about people here. What does the BES say? It tells us that the income of citizenship and quota 100, which is the other pillar of our reform, are instruments with high potential to increase income per capita, able to reduce inequalities by marginalizing absolute poverty. Crazy things have been said: there has been talk of a maneuver for the clever, for the careless. I can't quite see on the couch who's looking in the garbage one minute to find something to bring to the table and we've all seen these things. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Rufa]] Then try telling a family that can hardly reach the end of the month because maybe both parents are unemployed. You have to have the courage, because it's very easy to talk about smarties behind a camera or behind a screen. Try to tell these people in the face by looking them in the eye. There is another thing we have heard: the holidays of the poor. Have you ever considered the worrying difference between the health of those who have a job and those who are unemployed? Istat's 2017 research reports that 9 percent of the unemployed aged 35 to 64 suffer from depression or severe chronic anxiety, a value that rises to 10.8 percent among the inactive, while for their busy peers it stops at 3.5 percent. This is a worrying fact, so come out of your shell and look at reality, confront people, listen to it [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are constantly in the squares, every Saturday and every Sunday, because we are citizens among the citizens, because we listen to them, we listen to the territory. We are therefore talking about well-being not about well-being or profit, because we are referring to people, individuals who need care; we are talking about citizens who have rights, such as the right to work and to effective and efficient active policies. Pope Francis said that there must be no poor people and there is no worse poverty than that which does not allow us to earn bread, which deprives us of the dignity of work. With this extraordinary maneuver (because it is extraordinary) we do not give any illusion; we offer an opportunity to the forgotten, to those who are not recommended, to those who want to live - and have the right to do so - dignifiedly, because no one must remain behind. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u48	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Catalfo.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u49	Mr President, I will try to summarize and respond to the speeches made by the previous senators. Several things have been said, such as that the decree-law in question is a demagogic wave, that our provision is confused, that other countries have not put it into effect as we are doing, that it does not provide efficient controls nor a real path of inclusion; I will therefore try to respond to all these observations on the substance. Certainly it is not a measure related to the electoral context and the demonstration is that the Movimento 5 Stars from the beginning, so from the first entry into Parliament about six years ago, he proposed and also had in the program for the political elections the income of citizenship. Not only did he propose it, but he carried it forward for five years despite being in opposition. It is clear that the first point of the program in the 2013 and 2018 elections becomes one of the first steps to be taken urgently for this majority and for this Government. I speak of urgency because the fact is irrefutable is that in Italy there are 5 million people in poverty, 1.7 million families and children in poverty; a poverty that has increased over the years and that therefore the policies put in place by previous governments have not managed to fight: a poverty that certainly affects not only the lives of Italian citizens, but also the lives of businesses, the well-being of the country, GDP. This is therefore a necessary and urgent measure. I was challenged by the fact that I described it as an historical measure. It is a historic measure, firstly because it aims to implement the articles of the Italian Constitution; secondly, because it contrasts the poverty that unfortunately afflicts our country; thirdly, because it makes the first important investment, after decades, in active labour policies and employment centres. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I remember that these centres in Italy have 8,000 employees. With this measure we strengthen the employment centers by increasing the staff with 7,600 employees; we increase the structural resources; we implement the computer platforms, so we allow the interoperability of the databases, and this is another very important investment that had not been made in Italy in recent years. In addition, we not only increase the resources of employment services, we invest in active labour policies and the interoperability of databases, but we network all those actors who, in various ways, deal in Italy with the provision of employment services, therefore also private employment agencies, which have a role in the provision of services for income beneficiaries. We extend, among other things, the services to all those who - the so-called working poor - are in a situation of employment, but in a too low income context. So let's give them the opportunity to access all those services that help job placement. It has been said in this House that this reform is different from what has been achieved in other European countries. Well, the Senate's work commission carried out an important survey of the national and European context of employment services and went to Germany and France to see how the other countries structured employment integration and employment centres. In Germany, for example, where the situation was similar to the Italian one, they connected the social services of the municipalities and the employment centers in a single office called job center, which takes charge of the citizen and, as part of a project, helps him to work. We, in fact, implement this link by connecting municipalities and centres for employment, because it is true that, on the one hand, the beneficiary (then the core), depending on the discomfort that probably needs a first aid provided by the social services of the municipalities, but it is also true, on the other hand, that the person must be proactive and able to then have an independent life and therefore to be included in the working environment. For this reason, we link the social services of the municipalities to the employment centres and we also create a network, which has been even more detailed during the examination of the provision to the House, so as to allow a take-over, even cross-border, of the subject. Having said that - and I am also responding to a few comments from the Group of the Party of European Socialists - it is not possible to leave the only responsibility to the municipalities because the recent but also the less recent facts show that the responsibility carried out by the municipalities alone means that it is not effective for the inclusion in the social working environment and the future independent life of the beneficiary (independent in the sense that he can have a job and a future salary). This is not only demonstrated by the data relating to the measures approved not too long ago, such as the REI and the SIA card (support for active inclusion) and by the various reports that demonstrate it, but I also remind the Assembly, as I did about three years ago during the discussion on the REI, that when the Prodi Government approved the minimum income of inclusion, experimentally, in some municipalities of Italy, the measure was then evaluated by the so-called Onofri Commission, which made a report. Therefore, if we go to read this report carefully, it is understood that the difficulty of integration was caused by the inefficient and inefficient take-over by social services. It is clear, therefore, that a link must be made between the first take-over and the aid for employment, which is necessary to have a positive effect and impact on the citizen and the recipient who is accompanied. Therefore, this is the first important investment in employment services, in take-over and in the real, effective and effective aid to job placement. It is proposed together with the measure on the so-called 100 quota, which - I remind the House and all my colleagues - is not merely an electoral measure, but was already foreseen in the programmes of the 5 Star Movement and the League, before being elected to this House and becoming part of the majority supporting the Government. It is therefore a measure by which we lay the foundations for a new social state, by creating a new statute for guarantees and not just for work, based on the very fact that we are citizens. It is therefore an appropriate concept to redesign the right of existence and to guarantee full self-determination for citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u50	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Zapponeta-Borgo Mezzanone Institute in Zapponeta, in the province of Foggia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as is often pointed out by the oppositions - it was also done today - the League and the Movimento 5 Stars are two parties that have different sensibilities on many issues and on many subjects, but I believe - and I am saying this firmly - that, thanks to these sensitivities, we have managed to bring important improvements to the so-called decree that is now before us. We have done so both with amendments at first reading to the Senate and with amendments at second reading to the House of Deputies. This has been done thanks to a compact majority, which in recent weeks has carried on a path of sharing and also of comparison, but which has managed to find a square on everything. I would therefore like to thank the President and all the members of the Commission, public and private work, social security, for the path taken, which has been constructive and shared. Very often - it has been done even today - I have heard the League and the Government criticized, repeatedly silent to consider the foreigner a clever regardless. Some escape, however, the great anti-smart politics that the League is making at the local level and the data at hand show that there is no distinction between a smart Italian and a smart foreigner. A smart man is smart, whatever his nationality, so much so that at first reading the Senate was approved an amendment that provides that the change of residence is certified by a special report of the local police in case of separation or divorce occurred after 1 September 2018. This amendment was necessary precisely because of the numerous reports received by the mayors, who pointed out that the number of changes in residence had increased exponentially. These changes of residence - I stress - were required by both Italians and foreigners. Another amendment has also been adopted, which has perhaps caused a few more pains in the belly of oppositions. I am referring to the presentation of the certification of the real estate of the country of origin by non-EU citizens. I would like to focus once again on this point, although I did so at first reading when I replied, because many people did not understand the point. The request for certification has become necessary for a question of fairness to Italians and not because the foreigner is considered a clever regardless, as has been said several times. While in order to benefit from the social services of the municipalities Italian is subject to the punctual and immediate control of the land register of property owned and at no cost to the body, this does not happen for the foreigner outside the EU who, thanks to the governments of the left, has always got away with a simple self-certification. The fact is that due to the lack of instruments or the lack of financial resources, the municipalities are unable to carry out appropriate checks on the truthfulness of the information provided. With this amendment we have finally restored - and I stress this - fairness to the Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Moreover, the presentation of the certification in charge of the citizen also meets the criticisms made several times by the opposition linked to the appessation of the duties in charge of the Municipalities and the application of the criterion has already been tested with positive results in many municipalities where the League governs. You don't stop here because so many other improvements are inserted. For example, with respect to the basic text, which provided for social work only eight hours a week, we went from a minimum of eight hours to a maximum of sixteen hours, subject to consensual agreement between the parties. These and many other changes have led to the improvement of the decree-law with the aim of meeting requests and observations received also from the same oppositions. We're coming up at 100. I speak with infinite pride because it is yet another promise to the Italians who have been waiting for years for a concrete answer. Forgive me for the opposition, but we do not accept lessons from those who voted and supported the Fornero law, including Forza Italia, from which came the heavy criticism. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We just don't accept that. The 100 is not a window for a few, but a window that in three years will allow almost a million people to retire at an acceptable age, an age that will allow them to dedicate themselves to families and grandchildren. The figure of grandparents and family is once again at the heart of our political action. We are proud of this and we are very proud of it. Share 100 was a conscious choice to start emptying the Fornero law basin and breathing down the labour market. The number of applications for membership gives us only one answer: that we are right. To those who criticized us about quota 41, I would say that the economic and working system would not stand up if, according to the data, they had asked to retire all the 700,000 people who would have been entitled to it together. Let us not forget - and we have implemented it - the blocking of the increase in life expectancy for early retirement. Everyone will benefit from this. We also want to talk about the issue of civil servants, which has very often been raised both in the Commission and in this House. It is true that so many civil servants will benefit from the 100 quota, and that is a good thing. I am glad if you think that civil servants are an average of fifty-five years old and that the under thirty-five are only two percent of them. This is also in line with the draft law concreteness, which has been much criticized, but which includes targeted recruitment, aimed specifically at young people with specific requirements, aimed at improving and efficient the public administrative machinery. Moreover, since November there will be the unblocking of turnover, with the relationship between those who retire and new recruits equal to one by one, and the jobs that will be freed thanks to the unblocking of recruitment - always by this Government - will allow many young people to enter the world of work. I heard Senator Laus compare 100 to a large lottery: if it's a lottery, 100 is a guinness lottery of the primates because in three years there will be a million winners who deserve this prize; people who have been waiting for years because of the Fornero law. And then I'd like to say enough: enough with the continuing accusation that the League is in the throes of mere electoral ads. You're not even credible anymore, and you know why? Because it's the numbers that speak for themselves. On February 26, during my reply at first reading, I had given a number: 67,738, i.e. the number of requests submitted at 100. Today, after a month, these requests have reached 103,000: about 35,300 more requests in a single month. The Italians know very well that 100 is not a commercial but a further promise kept and to give us reason are the almost 36,300 employees who have applied for 100; the 35,800 civil servants who have applied for; the 8,500 traders and the almost 9,000 craftsmen. It should also be pointed out that the 100 quota is a faculty, not an obligation, and the 103,000 Italians who applied did so freely, without any compulsion. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that 100 is a further example of how the League has gone from words to deeds: yet another promise has been made, and once again the percentages are right. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u52	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Toffanin.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u53	Mr President, representatives of the Government, senators and fellow senators, Forza Italia has always been attentive to the weakest sections of the population. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] We have always shown this in fact, we support it and we have also demonstrated it with this measure because many and many of our amendments tried to improve the text, precisely in favour of those groups that have been left out of this decree, from the income of citizenship. We are sorry, but we believe that the measure was born badly and was built worse. The changes made to the House of Deputies were many because, as the majority rapporteur, Senator Catalfo, pointed out, there were many ambiguities and shortcomings in the article. This has created distortions, caused litigation, but above all it has brought to the norm provided for in article 13, paragraph 1-a, in order to try to heal all the questions that, made with previous requirements regarding the conversion into law of the decree-law, do not respect the changes that have been made. This is very serious because the lack of certification by foreigners, so decanted by Senator Nisini, will certainly not be able to be certified in useful times; therefore six months of monthlyity will be granted even without having the necessary requirements proposed by the conversion into law of the decree-law. We say no to the measure because it sees a mix of active welfare policies done and built badly. They are also measures that will not eliminate poverty. You must tell Minister Di Maio, who believes that he has abolished poverty for a few months now. You must tell him that this is not the case, that poverty was not abolished in December, nor will it be abolished in the future. Unfortunately, the measure will not even lead to the reduction of unemployment and all the structures that should be put in a position to take over the beneficiaries of citizenship income, as Senator Catalfo has already made clear, are not ready. This shows once again that the measure will only serve for the next European elections, but it will not benefit those who really need it. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] With regard to quota 100, we regret that the friends of the League applaud against Forza Italia, because we had actually made a commitment, signed by us and the friends of the League, to make sure to really overcome the so-called Fornero law and not to adopt a reductive measure, limited in time, that will give access to few, very few compared to those who would really have the right to retire. It is not a measure that exceeds the Fornero law and this is demonstrated by the simple fact that those who retire with a 100 quota will not take the full amount, but will have recognized the pension compared to the years of payment of contributions with reference to the Fornero law. It is therefore a umpteenth window and this happens because it is a spot measure which, like all other measures of the Government, which see two political forces in contrast with each other, had to proceed with the rule of the decrease. But we would have wanted to do so effectively so that everyone would retire and not just Mr Walter. For God's sake, we are delighted that he can retire and take care of his person, but we would have liked Mr. Antonio, Mr. Mario, Mr. Giacomo to go there as well. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and all workers who in the next three years will not be sixty-two years old, but have already paid more than thirty-eight years of contributions, perhaps carrying out the so-called wear and tear jobs. This is the discrimination that the measure in our examination produces. Moreover, this is the result to which one arrives only by making commercials of communication, without thinking about the context in which the measure is dropped and without taking into account the economic, social and geographical reality of the country. If, instead of financing the measures in deficit, we had first provided for a real economic recovery of the country, we would certainly have had a measure capable of combating poverty and overcoming the Fornero law. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u54	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u55	Mr President, I have a contrasting feeling of anger, nervousness and sadness as in these two months of the decree's stay in Parliament the dialectic has taken place, and now we have nothing else. Unfortunately, it will be approved, even if they are firmly opposed to it: only the reality will now be the principle of truth to measure these standards, which will include and exclude, but will not increase the rights. The issue of rights is very important in a democratic state and these rules will not exceed the Fornero law. My friend Carmine - equivalent to his friend Walter of my colleague Ferrero - from 1 January 2022 will have the pension requirements, but not the access to this standard, which will be experimental until 2021. Concern about grandparents - not by chance male - does not include mothers [[Applause from the PD Group]] , who leave work when they face periods of care, for which they have more discontinuous careers: this rule penalizes them, so not only they have not been able to do mothers, although they have a nice job of care, but they will not be able to do grandmothers, because - as the data show - fewer women will come out, since this rule does not reward discontinuous careers. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that the poor and the people in need know: one may have a need, but one may not have a right; by establishing bureaucratic and rigid rules, someone will go to the employment centre and someone else to the municipalities, to the social councilmen, as this rule states. During the general debate, I wondered whether we really read all the rules that we are voting on. Senator Catalfo argues that we do not agree that everyone will go to social services, since there is a shortage there: why, in employment centers there is not? [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]] I think and we think, as we've always told you... [[Comments of Senator Romagnoli.]] Perhaps I was wrong, it may happen, but you do not build a rule that goes to social rights, so that its beneficiaries will not all go there. ROMAGNOLI (M5S). You're making things up. [[Senator Malpezzi's comments.]] President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party It's written in the norm. Some, for rigid and bureaucratic criteria, will go to employment centres, while others will go... [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Even if I have misunderstood, the norm speaks: people in poverty do not go first. Does a citizen of Calabria have the same possibility as a citizen of Lombardy to make his rights truly enforceable, thirty days after the adoption of the norm, according to what it provides? We do not guarantee equal rights. Even our Budget Office has said that this rule on citizenship income does not establish subjective rights, therefore for everyone. I close by saying that it is very easy - it would be easy for all governments - to make rules that include and exclude other people. Let me give just one example, taking up the theme of disability: why hasn't there been a scale of equivalence that gives more to families who have people with disabilities? [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] You did not do it: the norm speaks, therefore the principle of reality will be that of truth. I had the great honor of being the rapporteur of a beautiful law like the one on the after us and I know the suffering of families and what happens. Therefore, those who have a poor family and a person with disabilities at home - even considering the different forms of disability - must have. I conclude by recalling a beautiful principle of our Constitution, which many of you have mentioned, which speaks of substantial equality (Article 3): that of people with disabilities and their families is such a case, which concerns the right to substantial equality which is denied here. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u56	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in line with what has already been established in the referee, states that amendments 1.5, 2.3, 2.4, 2.40, 3.4, 4.6, 4.10, 6.1, 6.50 (already 7-b.l), 6.2, 6.3, 7 -b.0.1, 7 -b.0.2, 8.1, 10.5, 13.2, 14 -b.2, 23.1, 25 -b.0.l, 26-f.0.l, 26-f.0.2 and 26 -septies.0.3, as they are not related to the changes made by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u57	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 1. [[Ironic applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u58	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u59	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u62	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, in paragraph 2 of Amendment 1.4 it is proposed to replace the words 'less than the age requirement' with the following:'regardless of the age of the person who is in a situation of disability or self-sufficiency'. This amendment is intended to support what my colleague, Mrs Parente, has already said in a very thorough way about the mortification suffered by people with disabilities. Mr President, I would like to take the floor to address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and, in particular, if you can listen to me, Mr Airola, because we have spoken about the dignity of the people, the exploited Italians and the people who do not work because there are jackals who exploit them. Well, what happens - then - in the Ministry of Economic Development of our country? A few weeks ago there was a ban to look for custodians and porters to be hired at the offices of the MISE in Rome via Molise 2, via Molise 19 and via di San Basilio 14. These workers receive - they will not receive - 4 euros per hour. Let me ask you a question. At the end of the month will these workers be able to speak and thank Vice Prime Minister Di Maio? They're exploited, aren't they? What is the victim and what is the executioner in our country? Is it the State, or is it just private companies? How is it possible, after the adoption of the so-called dignified decree and after the parliamentary assemblies have spoken of the dignity of the workers, that the Ministry of Economic Development grants tenders in which workers receive today - not five or six years ago - 4 euros per hour? You must be ashamed, this is dignity! [[Applause from the PD Group]] Shame! Answer me about what I'm saying, whether it's true or false. If that's true, I expect Minister Di Maio to apologize, not to me, but to those workers, and that you of the Movimento 5 Stars will reassemble in all the squares of the country to apologize for what you have done, aimed at organizing consent. Shame on you, you need political dignity. [[Applause from the PD Group.Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u63	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). AIROLA (M5S). It's not okay... we cancel the vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I can't hear anything without a microphone. Amendment 1.5 is inadmissible. Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 2, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u64	Mr President, I begin with the presentation of amendments 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12, with which the Brothers of Italy Group calls for the exclusion of persons convicted of sin, concussion and corruption from citizenship income. It is up to you now to decide.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u65	I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u66	I am against all the amendments to Article 2. As regards agendas G2.1, G2.2 and G2.3, I am in favour of accepting them subject to a rewording, with the inclusion of the words "to assess the appropriateness of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u67	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u68	Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.1 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.3 and 2.4 are inadmissible. Let us move on to Amendment 2.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u71	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, I rise on Amendment 2.6, but also in general on the other amendments tabled in Article 2. We have insisted so much in order to be able to improve in some way a text that clearly sees us against it, because it is only a flag measure, a measure that unites the two flags of the two parties to the Government making, in fact, two half flags that will lead to nothing. What we are very sorry about and that we were assured during the discussion in the Commission work is that there was no greater attention on the issues of disability and support for large families, at least during the debate in the House. On the other hand, we see that only 0.1 percent of the equivalence scale has been increased for families with disabilities and for large families, nothing has actually been done. We continue to believe that citizenship income should serve people in need. A child of twenty or twenty-five years must be able to find a correct place in the world of work without resorting to the use of a citizenship income that will make him a person without a grit, without a bite and without the will to increase his skills and attitudes. On the other hand, little attention has been paid to families who already suffer a penalty in their own homes, such as family caregivers, who are not protected at all. We expected, as promised by the government, that they would be heeded as we would have liked. That is why we ask you, at least here in the Senate, to return to your steps and make those small changes that would make the measure not acceptable, but socially sustainable. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u72	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.6, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u75	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, on this amendment at first reading we asked repeatedly to pay attention, and this will be well remembered by our colleagues in the Commission. This is an important measure - as Senator Catalfo has already mentioned - but it is useful if she indicates within the theme of poverty which are the most fragile people and sectors in the country that - as the Censis and Istat data tell us - are families, the many and those with disabilities. We wonder, then, why in the first reading, then in the second and still in the third, the game was closed. We wonder why the game has been closed on this measure and why the majority and the government, who talk so much about families - this week we have a flourish of statements in favour of families - do not provide with a simple amendment to strengthen policies to combat poverty in favour of the most tired and fragile families: they are families with disabled people and large families. I ask whether the majority really pay attention to the calls and invitations that are being made this week by the associations. We frequent the territories and listen to those who live there: in these weeks, even yesterday, associations that care about disabilities and large families have declared their disappointment that such an amendment has not been accepted. You have made a small adjustment, but the Budgetary Office's figures say that the minimum adjustment on the Cuban equivalence scale, if I recall correctly, is EUR 12 million. You have moved, out of 7 billion investment in policies to combat poverty, 12 million euros (practically a minutia) on families. Then I say to you: stop talking about families, about family policy and support for families. Let's try to do something concrete. This could be a measure that left an important signal for the poorest families in the country. You didn't and you're making a huge mistake. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u76	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u79	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, Amendment 2.7 - to point out what the previous speaker said to me and what our rapporteur, Mrs Parente, said earlier - together with the subsequent ones aims to affect, to attempt to change this famous scale of equivalence. We are not obsessed: we are only attentive and try to listen and meet your goals of representation of the last, the people in difficulty. With this amendment we are also giving the solution, which is the equivalence scale that we propose, namely that of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 159 of 2013. In any case, all the amendments tabled to Article 2 aim to correct a wrong that has been done to disability. I understand and understand that we are at the third reading, we are at the end, so it is impossible for our amendments to be accepted, but we want to claim - as colleagues have already done - our scrupulous and detailed work; we have carried out, with all our imagination, an amending exercise aimed at putting a certain order back within the so-called equivalence scale. We couldn't do it. And, then, the only thing we can do is try to understand, from the government's replies, why you've been so stubborn in wanting to close or even slam the door in the face of disability. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u80	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.7, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u83	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I rise on Amendments 2.8 and 2.9 which deal with almost the same point. Colleagues, in the House the majority, having seen that in line to achieve citizenship income there were also known delinquents, introduced a rule according to which among the requirements to obtain such income there must also be the lack of subjection to personal precautionary measure. All right, but there is a small problem, as I have also said in general debate: in the meantime it is not said that everyone must be subjected to personal precautionary measures because, if there is no danger of escape, danger of pollution of evidence and recurrence of crime, there is no precautionary measure. In doctrine the example is made, rather concrete, of the husband uxoricide who kills his wife because he is jealous, because he discovers it in scourge of crime, that he confesses and constitutes himself. At that point there is no danger that he will repeat the crime because his wife is no longer there; there is no danger that he will run away because he has constituted himself; there is no danger that he will pollute the evidence because he has confessed; he is not subjected to protective custody one day, he is condemned and, when he leaves jail, you give him the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We all understand the paradox of the situation you have created. That is why I repeat that it would be appropriate, instead, to permanently exclude criminals from the list of those who can obtain citizenship income. I have therefore proposed amendment 2.8, which calls for the exclusion of those who have been convicted of crimes not affected by a penalty of not less than two years, and even better at 2.9, who say that the two years can also be the result of the sums of the sentences pursued. Let's do - for example - the hypothesis of those who live using children or commit theft in apartment and has five, ten, fifteen or twenty convictions, all under two years, to which we will still give the income of citizenship. For these reasons, I hope that this House will realise what we are voting on and give a favourable opinion on at least one of these two amendments. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u84	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.8, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2.10, tabled by Senator Balboni and other senators, until the final words "condemned." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remainder of the amendment is therefore excluded. Amendments 2.18, 2.19, 2.29 and 2.38 have been withdrawn; the remaining amendments 2.11 to 2.39 are excluded. Amendment 2.40 is inadmissible. Let us turn to amendment 2.41, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.41, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.42, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u87	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, this is a very similar amendment to what we have voted on earlier and which has been rejected, in which the subject is put back again, which in the long month of work in the Commission, even at first reading here in the Senate, we have reiterated and reiterated once again. In the face of the silence of the Undersecretary Cominardi and the Government regarding the question that we asked and that also put the colleague of Forza Italia on the reason why the amendments concerning large families and with disabled people were not accepted, are to propose the question again. I would like to address Mr Cominardi in particular: we do not understand why these amendments - which are not at all threatening the structure and installation of the decree - have been rejected by those political forces which repeatedly proclaim the value of the family, children, fathers, mothers and grandparents. We wonder once again why we reject it and expect an answer, perhaps soon in Verona - and I say this with a bit of controversy - when ministers Salvini and Fontana will finally tell us what they intend to do seriously, and not with high-sounding statements, with families who have disabled children and with large families with children. I repeat that we are waiting for an answer and hope to have it soon. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u88	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.42, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.43, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.43, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.44, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u91	Parent (PD). Mr President, I rise to reiterate once again our vote in favour of this amendment as well as the others we have tabled. For the sake of truth, as far as the issue of disability is concerned, the transition to the House of Deputies has increased the ceiling from 2.1 to 2.2 for families with people with disabilities. With this amendment we recognise for each component of the household with severe disability a 0.4 in the equivalence scale and a 0.2 in each component with average disability, for a maximum of 2.5. That is what I said a moment ago in reply and my colleagues have also said so. This is the truth: in the current text there is no recognition of the individual component with serious disabilities for a change in the equivalence scale, in order to increase equity and justice. Amendment 2.44 will of course be rejected, but we will continue to be close to the families of people with disabilities until we win this battle. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u92	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.44, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.45, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u95	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on Amendment No 2.45, but I am actually going to express our concern at the fact that you have declared the amendments after 2,17 inadmissible. In our opinion, however, we could vote separately on individual crimes, so that we could put the Senate in a position to decide whether there were any specific crimes for which people were excluded from access to citizenship income. I am referring to particularly hateful crimes such as paedophilia, murder, infanticide, mutilation of genital organs, reduction in slavery, prostitution, exploitation of minors, begging, kidnapping, sexual violence, corruption, robbery, kidnapping. We asked the Senate to speak out of our request to exclude these hateful crimes from the possibility of accessing citizenship income [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] We have not been given this opportunity, but it remains with the acts that were our request and the responsibility lies with those who voted against our amendments. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u96	Senator Ciriani, I would just like to point out to you that the amendments you refer to have not been declared inadmissible, but have been foreclosed by the rejection of a previous amendment. I say this only as a specification because of the amendments you referred to. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.45, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2,46, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u99	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, knowing that we cannot influence the establishment of the decree-law in a global way, as the Forza Italia Group, we have merely called for particular concern for the weak classes and, in this case, for families with disabilities at home. That is why we asked for an increase - we did it at first reading and, through our colleagues in the House, at second reading; we did it in the Commission and now we do it in this House - a greater consideration for families with disabilities within them, raising the parameters of 0.4 for absolute disabled people and 0.2 for people with disabilities of medium gravity, but with a limit of 2.5. We are talking about a possible figure that should have affected within the context of the measure really for a very few million, but we would have given a sign of particular attention to families in difficulty for the presence of a disabled person. I still hope that there may be some repentance, but I do not believe that there will be any repentance. However, I ask that this matter be understood within the implementing decrees (there will be 24 or more of them).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u100	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 2,46, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators, up to the words: - a maximum of 2.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2,47 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to amendment 2,48, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,48, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask those present whether they accept the rapporteur's request for reformulation of the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u101	Mr President, I welcome the request for the rewording of the agenda G2.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u102	Mr President, I welcome the request for the rewording of agendas G2.2 and G2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u103	Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.1 (text 2), G2.2 (text 2) and G2.3 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u104	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u105	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u106	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 3.50, which is identical to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.50, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators, identical to Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.4 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 4, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u107	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u108	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u109	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.2, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.3, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.4, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.5, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.6 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.7, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u112	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, I would like to point out that Amendment 4.8 does not create any problems, once again, with regard to cover. I would like to remind the majority and the Government that this amendment proposes the approach that we have tried to propose - excuse the pun - by contributing to the debate on this measure. In Amendment 4.8, we propose our idea of how poverty is combated and we call on the whole community, the third sector, the local authorities, and I would also say entrepreneurs, to reiterate once again that, when we talk about combating poverty, about taking responsibility, about welfare, about paying attention to fragility, it is not just about employment centres or only about local authorities. It is an issue that must involve the whole community, the third sector, the territorial services, the employment centres - there would be no more! - and, where possible, companies, who participate in co-design in the territories on how to do welfare and fight poverty. [[Applause from Senator Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u113	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.8, tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.9 tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.10 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.11, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 6, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u114	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 6.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u115	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u116	Amendments 6.1 to 6.3 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u117	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u119	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, at the first reading of this measure, I had already spoken to the Undersecretary, who had told me that they would probably speak to the House of Members on the subject raised by this amendment, which merely introduces into the supply system, and therefore the databases available, even those of the Chambers of Commerce. I honestly do not understand the reason for its rejection, because it does not affect the structure of the measure, but makes available a database present throughout the national territory that collects job offers.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u120	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.4, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u123	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to announce that I voted against this amendment, which removes the essential levels referred to in Article 4 (14) and which is typical of the previous attitude of your proposer, Senator Laus, calling me into question. I'd be ashamed to talk about low wages, if I were him, since he keeps paying people 4 or 3.50 euros per hour. It's not a market issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because there is not only the market, but there is also ethics: the ethics of a senator who left his associates a company and that of the Confederal unions, CGIL, CISL and UIL, who voted agreements for multi-service jobs at slave prices. MIRABELLI (PD). What's that got to do with anything? AIROLA (M5S). As I have already said, slavery already existed in Virginia in the 1800s and you could have a cotton field full of workers who did not pay, but I would not have, because it is an ethical issue, even if the law allows it. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u124	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.5, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 6.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. As the request has been made, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u125	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u127	FLORIS (FI-BP). Mr President, I feel involved and I speak with a certain determination for ten years as mayor. Also with this measure, as in others, greater workloads are expected for the checks, checks and all the inspections of the residence, to which the City is held, without giving any contribution. Transfers to municipalities have already been reduced and they are now being burdened. I believe that this is really undignified and unrespectful by the Government towards local self-government. I am sure that again this amendment - although I believe that the vote in favour is more than justified - will be dismissed by the majority. Nevertheless, I urge the Minister, who knows the situation of the South and not only, with reference to the difficulties of the coffers of the Municipalities, to take care in a separate and subsequent act, given the many opportunities there will be for the application of this measure, to support the work of the Municipality and the costs related also to its application with a special contribution. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u128	Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.6, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 7-b.0.1, 7-b.0.2, and 8.1 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 10, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u129	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 10.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u130	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u131	Let us move on to Amendment 10.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u134	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, with this amendment we would like to add to paragraph 1-a, first sentence, the following sentence: 'understanding the state of implementation of the individual measures and the actual achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 1 (1) ' Article 10 focuses on monitoring. We believe that, for a cost-benefit monitoring and analysis - the Movimento 5 Stars like a lot - of a measure of this magnitude, one needs a verification and a sort of real evaluation clause, which can be exercised only and exclusively by a third body; otherwise the monitoring done by the Ministry is nothing more than a sort of self-certification. We do not ask for this third party for political debate, for political advantages and for us to be able to say that we were right or that we had told you. In any enterprise, private or public activity, for any regulatory measure it is necessary and dispensable to understand whether those aims go to impact as planned. If, instead, they impact in a different and discordant way with respect to the purposes, one can intervene. These are the reasons and the conditions for which we suggested at first reading, at second reading in the House, and at third reading even now, to create a space within Article 10 to give experts or technicians the opportunity to improve your measure. This, unfortunately, has not been feasible and in the coming months we will not actually know where to go to improve and what to correct as soon as possible to avoid a whole series of twists. Even in this particular case, we can't understand why you're so stubborn. Then we give an answer: because we are at the festival of self-certification. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u135	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.2, tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.3 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us turn to Amendment 10.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 10.4 tabled by Senator Nannicini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 10.5 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.6, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.7.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u136	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u138	GALLONE (FI-BP). Mr President, we are truly shocked by the absolute closure - and I repeat what I said earlier - of every possibility of amending it in positive terms, free of charge for the State. In this case, the amendment, which refers to Article 10 and concerns monitoring, in detail goes into the merit of monitoring with respect to families with persons with disabilities and especially families who have within them the figure of the caregiver family, that is, that person who takes care of his family in need or disability. No burden on the state. Among other things, it could be an opportunity to carry out a monitoring on an issue already in the attention of the Commission's work. In fact, the draft laws on the figure of the family caregiver are in progress within the Commission, they are being studied. Therefore, by adopting such an amendment, apart from the demonstration of attention, which - I repeat - still seems not to be with regard to families with disabilities and, above all, to the caregiver, who as a worker must have special attention, we are really shocked. As has already been said, two faces, a two-faced Giano: on the one hand, those who say they are on the side of disabled people and families, and on the other, in practice, the total lowering of the Saracinesca against every initiative simply proactive by the oppositions, who in this case do not oppose, precisely, but make constructive propositions. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u139	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.7, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 11, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u140	I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u141	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u142	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.1 tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 12, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u143	I am against all the amendments to the article.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u144	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u145	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.1, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.3 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.4 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.5, tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.6 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.7 tabled by Senators Bertacco and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 12.8, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u148	Parent (PD). Mr President, Amendment No 12.8 is part of the last-minute Rule 4a in the House of Deputies, which the rapporteurs have presented, and has allocated an additional EUR 25 million over a three-year period to ANPAL for undefined operating expenses, in spite of the principles of transparency of the Government itself. Some newspapers have made a few remarks about this, but I don't like to film it. If that were the case, it would be pretty serious. We propose to allocate some of these additional resources to ANPAL Servizi S.p.A. to continue the process of stabilisation of staff with a fixed-term employment contract and a coordinated and continuous collaboration contract. I remember that ANPAL currently has 1,103 employees, with a significant incidence of precarious staff, equal to 60 percent. The precarious staff in recent years have also participated in selection procedures with public evidence according to the decisions of the company, subjecting themselves to selective tests, sometimes for the same position previously held. We therefore propose to continue the stabilisation process and the amendment indicates the way forward, because 48 people were stabilised in 2017. We propose to continue because if it is true that yours is a great use of resources for the services for the job, then why not start with these people whose professionalism and skills acquired in the field for years, realizing technical assistance to the Regions, to the centers for the job and to the whole system of the services to the job, (as all those who are well aware of these issues) are very rare in the country? If Amendment 12.8, as we expect, will be further rejected, we too will continue to stand by the staff of ANPAL Servizi S.p.A. of the unions that followed the path of stabilization in 2017, and of the coordination of the precarious: all people who deserve to be hired at this stage. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u149	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.8, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.9 tabled by Senator Laus and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda referred to in Article 12.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u150	On agendas G12.1 and G12.2 there is a call for withdrawal, otherwise I am against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u151	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u152	I would ask those on the agenda whether they intend to accept the call for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u153	Mr President, I would like it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u154	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G12.1, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I ask Senator Errani if he intends to accept the invitation to withdraw the agenda G12.2. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). No, Mr President, I would ask for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G12.2 tabled by Senator Errani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 13, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u155	I am against the amendments to Article 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u156	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u157	Let us move on to Amendment 13.1 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13.1 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 13.2 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 14, which are referred to above, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u158	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Rule 14. I propose that we accept the G14.1 agenda as a recommendation; on 14.2 the opinion is opposed to the premises, while on the device I propose the following rewording:
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u159	I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u160	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 14.2, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u161	Mr President, this amendment - and then the other two we have tabled - wants to help the government. I say this because I listened to Senator Rivolta say something right just now, that is that the teachers asked us to retire. We share this, because we know that teachers want to retire and imagine that there will be a lot of retirement applications. The problem - and I am addressing the Government - is that you have not thought about who you will put into class, because you have not implemented any system that guarantees that, in the face of such a large number of retired teachers, there are others ready to ensure continuity of teaching and you have not given several orders of answers. What will you do with teachers who have more than 36 months of service? This is point 22 of your school-related government contract, which you always do. You promised them the transitional phase: where is it? There is nothing and the teachers are writing and protesting, because, in the face of exposed chairs, there will be no system ready to reintegrate other teachers into the world of work. Again, we have given you another suggestion: make sure that you have qualified teachers who have already won the competition and can go and teach in other school orders. You would free seats and already have qualified staff, but also from this point of view you are deaf. I would add that you have abolished and eliminated the FIT (initial training and internship), the only path that allowed qualification and integration to teachers to ensure continuity of teaching. You have abolished it: it is a political choice, we have already discussed it many times. The problem is that you didn't replace anything, so in September our school will be a disaster and it will be your fault alone and exclusively. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u162	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 14.3, tabled by Senator Malpezzi and other senators, until the words "school system" are used. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining parts and amendments 14.4 and 14.5 are therefore excluded. Senator Laforgia, do you agree to accept the agenda G14.1 as a recommendation? LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda for the G14.1 is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Patriarch, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G14.2? Patriarca (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G14.2 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14-a, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u163	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u164	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u165	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14- bis.1, tabled by Senator Patriarch and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 14-a.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14- bis.2 tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 14b, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u166	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u167	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u168	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 14-b.1, tabled by Senator Iannone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 14-b.2 is inadmissible. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 22, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u169	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u170	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u171	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 22.1, tabled by Senator Toffanin and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 23.1 is inadmissible. We now come to the examination of the amendment to Article 25a, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u172	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u173	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u174	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 25- bis.1, tabled by Senator Floris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 25-b.0.1 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 26f, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u175	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u176	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u177	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 26-f.1, tabled by Senator Parente and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 26-f.2 to 26-f0.3 are inadmissible. Colleagues, at the request of the Democratic Party Group, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. when explanations of vote begin. (The sitting was suspended at 13.44 p.m. and resumed at 17.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u180	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, on the 100th quota of last month we can make some reflections today, starting from the number of questions. It is clear that this measure will have very limited effects in terms of generational turnover in the world of work. Important studies tell us that in private there will be a turnover of one to ten and this for the simple reason that to ask for the pension are employees of companies in difficulty and that they will be even more so for the economic recession. On the questions submitted by the self-employed, the very real risk is that they will continue to carry out their job, directing the activity to family members. In public administration, many have denounced the problems facing the world of school and health care. Here, even with all the good will, to have a replacement it will take years, those necessary to banish and carry out public competitions, to proceed then with the hirings. Then there is the theme of gender imbalance: 75,000 male questions against just 25,000 women. This is because 100 women who have fewer contributions and who are not given family care and care work have not been dealt with. Above all, this is happening in the context of a new economic recession. If the aim was to create new jobs, perhaps it was not better to allocate these resources to cut the tax wedge or in the form of incentives for businesses? In fact, the great problem of the sustainability of the pension system remains. The real point is that in Italy we are always talking about pensions from the point of view of those who want to go and never from that of those who will then have to pay. On citizenship income, as we said at first reading, we are in favour of measures to combat poverty, similar to those of many other European countries. However, we have serious concerns about how the measure was built. The first concerns the link between poverty and work. Poverty is a much broader and more complex concept. Poverty is, for example, that of a single mother, with young children, in the absence of adequate public facilities and services. It is the condition of social marginality in which children have no opportunity and learning tools and are at risk of school dispersal. There was therefore a need for an instrument that would address the problem by involving the social services of the municipalities and not by downloading everything on employment centres, which do not have the staff and training to properly load them and which will not even work for job search. There are no adequate facilities, staff, computers and even new navigators will not bring added value, as it has become a simple technical support staff. From income data the most striking is the absence of young people. Very few questions, the under 30s are only 6.8 percent, yet income has always been told as the tool to set a generation in motion. It's not happening and it's not going to happen. To encourage them to leave home, to seek the path of independence, the law had to be written in another way. The truth is that it took time to involve the social partners, not to overdo poverty and work, to reform employment centres, to ban public competitions for navigators, to have effective controls and checks on income recipients. For these reasons of substance, we should vote against this measure. However, we acknowledge that the Government has accepted the safeguard clause that will allow the citizens of the Autonomous Provinces to opt between the national path and the income of provincial inclusion, which we consider much more effective and responsive to the needs of the citizens who are in conditions of difficulty or social fragility. We shall therefore put an abstention vote. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Ferro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u183	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we shall abstain on this measure: it is the summary of a judgment we have already given at first reading and which we have reiterated in the passage to the House. For us, abstention means, first of all, no opposition to an instrument that, in its basic inspiration, has an ambitious objective that is to combat poverty and to imagine an income support measure. For us, every euro of the public budget that is made available to make this operation is a well-spent euro, especially in a country where poverty has increased. This is often said with great ease and even with a hint of rhetoric, but it is the real photograph of the country. Statistics tell us, but behind those cold numbers, people's real lives are hidden. We are talking about absolute poverty, those who do not arrive at the end of the month (many of these families did not even arrive at the third week). In this case too, we are talking about the so-called relative poverty, which means basically that condition in which people cannot do those things that others may have the opportunity to do, and in not doing so they are compromising their dignity. They are people who cannot live a normal life, they cannot assure themselves, their loved ones and their children of dignified living conditions. Very often, even if it may seem an absolutely minor thing, I come across parents who can't even have a birthday party for their children and when in a country that is blessed, even rightly, to be one of the largest and richest countries in the world, encounters people who, with some modesty, present you a condition that has not only to do with the material dimension - therefore with the impossibility to arrive at the end of the month - but with the sense of living normally, as exemplifies the reference I made before, means that we are not on the right path. This is the reason why we do not feel that we can counter a measure with a low head that aims first of all to get people out of the trap of their poverty and try to reduce those faults that have widened because of the very heavy economic and social crisis of the last ten years; faults that already existed, that already divided the population of this country among categories of workers, between geographical areas, and that divided and divide even generations. That is why we feel that we are looking at this measure with interest and have done so from the outset. My colleagues know that I work in the Commission with the spirit in which we have proposed and dealt with the amendment phase was precisely this, that is not to oppose in a preliminary way, but to understand how to change in a positive sense a measure that first had this kind of principle and ambition, which we feel we share. I would also add - as I said in previous speeches, but I repeat this - that we feel very far from those who propose the sofa's thesis, i.e. those who say that the income of citizenship would favour the lounge of our young people on the sofa, because it discourages the search for a job because income integration is very close to the average level of wages. This is a thesis not only a little curious, but even offensive, because it means that those who propose it do not know the condition of many young people and also of many less young people in this country, but above all because it does not put another theme at the centre: if the level of citizenship income is very close to the average wages of the country, it means that Italy has a gigantic salary issue to solve and that wages must be increased. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I think this is the focus of the debate that we have to do. Having said that, since we take liberty from the opposition and - let me say - even the intellectual and political autonomy to abstain in the face of the symbolic measure of a government that we oppose, with the same freedom we feel to say - we have already said in the previous passages - what are the enormous holes and contradictions of the measure, which, for a strange heterogeneous of the aims, risk taking it in a different direction, if not in some cases opposed to the objectives that the legislator aims and therefore that the majority has set itself. I am referring, for example, to the risk of not reaching where the measure must go, that is, where the real need arises and is determined. We have said this: why does a measure that should attack the fragility and marginality risk keeping out the homeless, that is, the last of the last of our society? Why has the issue of the poorest children not been put at the centre sufficiently? Why haven't you made an adequate effort (even if a few minor adjustments have been made) with respect to a great issue, that is, the fact that many families, having disabled people inside and within their core, are associated with a very heavy material condition, which makes even more dramatic their condition of poverty, even a condition that is not exquisitely material, that is, a human condition? Why didn't you give the right weight to this aspect? Then we asked ourselves - not with a question, but with amendments - why the hell do we know that this reason is all political - you have imagined such a strict criterion as that of residence for at least ten years. It is quite clear that there is an exquisitely political motivation, because, in a government numerically driven by Movimento 5 Stars, but politically led by colleagues of the League, it is clear that this criterion has been included in the measure and informs it in essence, determining its perimeter of the beneficiaries, for a very specific reason: it has been imagined against personam and against someone. And we know that this someone has to do with migrant people who live regularly in our cities and our communities. Then there is the whole theme of the management of the instrument, of this mechanism for which they will be created precarious by means of precarious; the idea that you have not solved the issue of the precarious of the ANPAL to us seems an absurdity and a contradiction. The measure that should emerge from the condition of fragmentation of work and precariousness should be managed by those who continue to remain precarious and whose stabilisation solution has not been found. These are critical issues that concern the income of citizenship but also the 100 share, over which, in this case too, we do not have a prejudice: we think it is an element of relief the introduction of an instrument of greater flexibility and the fact that some small injustice has been healed. After that, do not say that this provision has broken the Fornero law, because it is not so. This is not a 100 quota, it is only an experimental step and above all it does not solve the structural problems of the pension system, which concern the discontinuous careers of women and young people, and it does not solve the problem of wear and tear, as well as the fact that you have not put your hands on the issue of exodus. That is why we shall abstain. There are lights, we see them, but there are many shadows. We hope that the Government - this is the request we make - will somehow resolve the many problems that remain open during the implementation and implementation of the decree-law. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u186	BERTACCO (FdI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my explanation of vote by making a brief history of the path that led us to vote today on this bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 4 of 2019. We started with a farce - I have no other words - which began in the Commission and continued for several days, with constant delays, not so much because of technical problems, but because the majority could not agree with the amendments tabled. This was quite clear, given the number of amendments tabled to citizenship income by the League and the amendments to quota 100 by the Movimento 5 Stars. When, at last, after a meeting at Palazzo Chigi, we were able to return to the Commission and begin the debate, but above all to explain the amendments, being the measure taken by this branch of Parliament, we thought that work could be done; we thought above all that we could make our contribution. In fact, in a very short time we understood instead, because it was explained to us, that everything would be revised and corrected in the House, because negotiations were still under way within the majority and at the table with the Regions. It was therefore impossible to contribute. We have looked with confidence at the work carried out in the Chamber but in the end we had to see, for the umpteenth time, the further mockery. We strongly pointed out to you the situation of disabled people, who had practically been ignored by this measure; you said that you would take care of the House, that you would make the necessary corrections, but you only changed the equivalence scale by only 0.1 percent. I think you'd better leave it as it was, because it's a further insult to people with disabilities, not to mention the large families. I know that it is particularly annoying to the 5 Star Movement, but in fact this is a welfare measure for electoral purposes, which aims only to arrive at the date of May 26 of the European elections being able to say that you sent the card with which to collect money. The initial mistake that was made was to bring together active labour policies and social interventions in a measure: they are two completely different interventions, which cannot be combined. Above all, you have never wanted to clarify - and you have not clarified it within the provision - what will be the path that will distribute the different loads on the Municipality or on the centers for employment. In fact, the measure under consideration today does not clarify anything that will be left to an interpretation on the territory. Already today there are people who turn to the CAFs and ask, in case they have to refuse the job because of a mileage too high, if they have to return the money they have taken in the meantime. In the area of the Padua the CGIL says they will have to return them, while the CISL says no; this based on a circular that was sent by the INPS, which evidently has not clarified anything at all. But the scandalous thing is that local authorities are given a load in a crazy way and that within the decree-law it is established that this happens without charges for the state. But how do you think the municipalities can withstand the wave that's coming? I also told you in the first reading: taking charge is an important thing that is done by social services, and often and willingly it is not reduced to the individual person, but it is also a responsibility of the family. You have not made any provision for the increase in staff who will have to deal with these matters. You have denied any kind of modification for incentives to companies that will hire people with citizenship income, creating, among other things, a contradiction, because the company that should hire a person who takes citizenship income will probably select those that the citizenship income has just begun to take it, because those who are almost at the end will give a contribution to the company practically zero. This will create discrimination between people. We also told you that navigators might have been better talked to the Regions because it is their responsibility, but you rejected all the amendments, and then found yourself at the table of the Regions to reduce the number of navigators and entrust you to them with regard to the recruitment of the above. Besides, you still don't understand - I may have a bit of a hard head - how the ANPAL will take on. We had tabled an amendment calling for compliance with the principles of maximum transparency, publicity, impartiality and equal opportunities with regard to recruitment criteria: rejected, because perhaps transparency in this period at Movimento 5 Stars is of little interest. We also asked you to be able to use the cash, in the context of the availability of cards, even in a period not limited to the time span of one month. In fact, if people come out of a period of difficulty, I believe that their education in spending cannot be done by forcing them to spend everything within a month. It seemed to me that it made sense and that it could help these people to use this money and, above all, to spend it well. We have also tried several times to tell you that contributions had to be increased for those who decided to take the road to self-employment, because we believe that that too can be an incentive especially for young people. But you also rejected this proposal. Mr Balboni also mentioned several times this morning that this measure will probably give the green light to citizenship income for criminals. I should also particularly like to stress that during the general debate this morning I heard about poor people almost with a clerical voice. I say to you, do not exploit the poor. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] , because all of us in here - I believe everyone, no one excluded - have at heart the situation of the poor. We certainly have a different vision of how to deal with the problem, so you would like Pope Francis to be mentioned even when he recalls, for example, that the natural family is founded on a man and a woman. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]] Otherwise, leave Pope Francis alone and let us go on the content of this law that, I repeat, will bring us into a situation of total confusion. Do you know that in some municipalities each of the social workers has more than eighty protections of minors to follow? And we add work load to them without giving them the opportunity to reorganize and increase offices. I continue to stress this, because we are really going to risk a collapse of the system. I repeat, in my opinion you in a municipality or a local authority have never even entered it. You may have gone there to make a certificate of residence, but I don't know if anyone who is sitting here on the Movimento 5 Stars has ever done the local administrator, administered the public thing and realizes the organizational complexity of this measure. I am also referring to utility projects, which must, however, respect the skills and knowledge of the people who are going to carry them out, not realizing that this is a further complication that will not lead anywhere. (Following Mr Bertacco). As far as the criteria for hiring navigators are concerned, I cannot understand why some types of degrees have been chosen and others have not. Perhaps it would have been better to adopt a little broader criteria: for example, if the degree in political science is good, it is not clear why the one in letters or philosophy should be excluded. There is therefore a whole series of contradictions, which leads us to understand that there is no reasoning here about poverty. The associations that have come to the Commission to talk to us about how every day, on the road, they face poverty, asked us why we do not evaluate and do not verify the experiences of the territory and why we want to focus on mixing active labour policies with social intervention. They invited us to go and see their experiences, also made on the basis of mistakes, which over time have been corrected. It has not, however, been done, because we still have to come to an end by May and so we are here today. During the last few steps in the Commission, too, we have been subject to a number of delays, which have always been justified - once again - for technical reasons. You have approved the measure with a vote of confidence in the House of Deputies and I sincerely find it a little difficult to understand what kind of problems there are. On the other hand, the use of this House and respect for those who work there now is almost zero. I therefore come to talk about the quota 100 and, among many things, we regret that we have chosen to approve a single decree-law. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. BERTACCO (FdI). I'm finishing, Mr. President. We are certainly aware that this provision is not and will not be the revision of the Fornero law. We were certainly very sorry to see that with the rule on end-of-service treatment (TFS) a further nice gift was made to the banks and instead the issue should perhaps have been addressed in a different way, using either public INPS funds or with the intervention, in case of need, of the Cassa depositi e loani. I have many other things to say, but the time at my disposal has expired and therefore, for all the reasons that I have listed so far, I announce the contrary vote of the Brothers of Italy Group. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u187	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Liceo Classico e Scientifico "FAES Città studi" in Milan and the Istituto Comprensivo "Zapponeta" - Borgo Mezzanone" in Zapponeta, in the province of Foggia, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u188	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u189	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u190	Patriarca (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are at the third examination of the measure and for us - I am sorry to say - it has been a month lost in trying to suggest and indicate reasonable improvements to a badly-born decree-law from the outset. We've been fooled. Minister Di Maio in recent weeks has hoped for a confrontation, a careful listening, possible convergences on social policies and labour policies: it is a great lie, a great mockery. Comparisons are made in the light of the sun, they are done here in the Chamber and above all in the Commissions and certainly not using the decree-law. You have made a grandiose statement on this measure. You spoke of poverty eradication, when today the economic crisis looms over the country: the International Monetary Fund certified it only yesterday afternoon. We're in recession without you moving a finger. The poor will not disappear - alas for families - but they will risk increasing in the coming months. You spoke of structural welfare reform and this morning I listened to this passage again. In fact, you have introduced a measure with a debt of resources; you have introduced a constitutional principle that is a bit far-fetched; you have introduced "dissolved" rights, that is, rights that are valid for a while as long as there are resources. [[Applause from the PD Group]] You have done so with the income of citizenship and with a 100th share, an open window - or a window, as my colleague Nisini recalled - that will close soon. You have not reformed welfare and the measure is based on historically fragile infrastructure, primarily employment centres, which are the ones we know. You had announced a structural reform; Di Maio himself had announced it. We have started a series of hearings in the Commission, which have not yet been concluded and which we do not know of: a proposal for a law or a reform contained in the decree? If this was the reform announced by Minister Di Maio on employment centres, we could really say that we are at the top of the line. You have founded the measure on digital platforms, but it is known that it is difficult for the most fragile people to access them. We also know - as the experts say - that the enhancement of the digital platforms that you want in the decree will take years. You have zeroed the vocabulary, the key words that have gone through the public and scientific debate at European level in recent years. You have not even done the language and vocabulary of the European pillar of social rights: community welfare, proximity, multidimensionality, listening, taking charge, responsibility, reciprocity, words excluded from the debate and not even present in the decree. You have not trusted two strategic infrastructures that already exist. I am referring to local authorities, which are at the heart of a community on welfare and poverty issues, and networks in the third sector, which today and in the near future - as we all know - will play a strategic role in social cohesion. [[Applause from the PD Group]] In short, you have forgotten the territories; it is from there that it was necessary to start again because, when we talk about welfare more just and more inclusive and attention to fragility, we talk about territories. It is the communities that take responsibility for the fragility; it is the networks of communities, the networks of third sector, our administrators and our advisors that you have neglected. In this measure you ask for commitments from local authorities without offering anything, without offering resources and without helping them in a process of new infrastructure. You have forgotten the horizontal subsidiarity (I am surprised by the colleagues of the League, who in recent decades have made great ideological battles on subsidiarity) the civil and religious realities. You have not even mentioned the need to regain a culture of shared design at local level, a valuable tool to combat poverty, to reduce the fragmentation of the community; they are words dear to us all, to those who care about welfare, poverty and fragility; as well as co-design, networks, communities, taking charge, collaborations, synergies even with enterprises (called instead in a strange and artifact game). You have even forgotten vertical subsidiarity, surpassing the Regions and municipalities, badly recovered in "zone Cesarini." We don't think it's a coincidence; I don't think this is a case and that the decree is due to some distraction. Your measures feed on the prejudice and suspicion on which you built an anthropological scaffolding - see the various concrete decrees etc. - based on mistrust, on the citizen alone, a monad, dispersed, without community and without networks. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A citizen alone who looks at his leader waiting for the final solution. Nevertheless, you have introduced punitive legislation for the poor, which leaves them bewildered. You even introduced consumption control. You know well that the so-called smart people are opposed to the controls that - alas - will not be increased with the solution of a small patrol, generous and courageous, of carabinieri and financiers. The controls increase by hiring social workers, which you have refused, and by strengthening the labour inspectorate. A betrayal, therefore, especially towards large families and with disabled people; a betrayal towards children and girls who expect courageous and lasting answers over time. A betrayal towards early workers (we speak of quota 100), towards working women, towards workers with heavy and weary activities. Why didn't you direct your reformative action towards those groups most affected by the Fornero law? Why not be careful about those who in their lives have not been able, for reasons independent of their own will, to have a contributory continuity? Women, for example, who are often cared for in families or people who have had prolonged health problems. You could have done all this without undermining the financial standing of our contributory system, without mortgageing the future of the thousands of young people who have the right to access decent pension treatment. Put in place a measure that is not structural; it must be told, it should be remembered speaking sincerely to the country. This is not a structural reform: it is aimed at a small audience of poor, albeit important (it is not the 5 million that stated, the INPS and Istat data tell us), and a small audience of pensioners, mostly not fragile people. Basically, in three years - this is the final result - and after spending more than 20 billion euros, all structural problems related to Fornero will remain unresolved, as well as those of Italian welfare. You have introduced in time a mere contribution and little more, because in the end this measure that we will soon approve - which you say is very important, we would miss more - will be reduced to a mere economic transfer, very small, very short. Poverty is not only defeated by economic transfers - this is a right-wing policy; it has always been right-wing politics - but it is defeated in relations, in taking over, not only in work, in a small economic subsidy, but also in fixed-term terms. Future generations will be burdened by a very heavy debt: resources taken from the country that could have been invested in the growth and well-being of all Italian citizens. In conclusion, life - the real one - will meet you; we expect you in a few months with the presentation of the document of economy and finance, and then with the next maneuver. You will explain how this measure will be supported in the coming years. Alas we will realize - I hope not especially for poor families and for the most fragile and difficult pensioners - that this will be a great bluff, a great promise, a false and lying game. [[Applause from the PD Group]] For these reasons, we will vote strongly against this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u191	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u193	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure now close to approval is a very important decree-law for this legislature and for the implementation of this Government's programme. At last 100 will be finally approved by Parliament at its second reading: a fundamental point of the League's program; and the citizenship income will be approved, a fundamental point of the 5 Star Movimento program, in full compliance with the government contract that led to the formation of this Executive. The first question that I think should be dealt with is the criticisms that have been made by the opposition to this measure: criticism of 100 because more had to be done and better had to be done. Predictable criticisms, but - let me say this - the basic question is another: who has made legislative intervention necessary to approve this reform? To be clear, who voted for the Fornero law? Certainly not us, certainly not the League. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Those who today criticize and judge our work, teach and give lessons. Allow me and forgive us: we cannot accept lessons from you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] Those responsible for what is happening here are precisely the opposition forces that today are once again opposed to the correction and overcoming of the Fornero law. You have had five years of government to remedy the errors and injustices that you yourself have approved. You lost your chance and were rightly punished by the voters. In the various debates in this House and in the Chamber you have harshly criticized the income of citizenship by saying that it is a wrong measure. But the question is always the same: where is consistency? Who approved just over a year ago the income of inclusion and who promised in the election campaign the approval of an income of dignity of 1,000 euros per month, guaranteed for all? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] The same political forces that today criticize a measure that, thanks to the contribution of the League, has not the only objective of helping families in a serious state of poverty, but above all the objective of making access to the world of work those who have lost it or fail to obtain it. The income of inclusion and dignity of oppositions were, yes, pure welfare measures. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] This model of citizenship income invests in training, employment centres, provides for a commitment to carry out socially useful work, incentives with taxing companies to recruit new staff, provides numerous requirements so that no one can take advantage of this opportunity. It is not, in the end, a measure that gives money to the rain but wants to be a tool to give impetus to employment and a future to the new generations. Other criticisms of the measure were then made. Italy, it is true, is again in a state of crisis of economic growth; it is a real and undeniable fact. This is a difficult situation for Italy and for Europe as a whole, including Germany. It has been pointed out several times that in this situation it was not appropriate to invest important resources for the reform of the pension system. These are obviously the statements of the oppositions. In our opinion there are moments and themes for which doubts and uncertainties cannot be allowed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Certain decisions must be taken, and that is all, simply because it is right and proper to do so. The amendment of the Fornero law is an act of justice that can no longer be postponed, and that is exactly what we are doing in this House today: an act of justice. We are restoring a decent life perspective to men and women to whom it has been removed from a profoundly unjust reform that you, all together, voted in 2011. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi]] Our path is totally different. The League, all of us senators are those who have not trusted the Monti Government. We are those who have never ruled with the PD and the left; we are those who voted against the Fornero law; we are those who have collected more than 500,000 signatures for a referendum to delete this shameful law. We are those who fought in Europe - I would like to remind you - so that the 100 quota could be implemented in a very difficult budgetary law. Today, at last, once again in this parliamentary term, we are those who will maintain a commitment made with the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]] We do not carry out this reform for the election campaign of the European elections: we do it because this is the mandate we have received from the voters; a starting point and not a point of arrival. Share 100 is an act of consistency and justice. It is an act of justice for citizens who have worked their whole lives and have the sacred right to retire at a dignified age. It is an act of justice to give the start to a necessary generational change in the world of work and to give back a hope of life and a future in Italy to our young people. You have persistently tried to defend indefensible positions, but ultimately you of the opposition will go to history for having voted the Fornero law in 2011 and against its overcoming today. We are and will always be proud not to have voted on it then and to have had to dismantle it in this House today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] That is the truth of the facts that will remain in the proceedings of this legislature and today justice is finally done. I therefore declare the vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law by the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u194	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u196	VITALI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked and preferred that there had been an opening on this measure which would have allowed all the representatives of the people sitting here to make their contribution. In fact, when we talk about poverty, discomfort, the weakest and those who are behind, I believe that the whole political class can and should speak the same language. Those who speak are members of a parliamentary group which has shown, in fact and not with chatter, not only that they are sensitive to the problems of poverty and need, but also that they have managed to solve them. I want to remind you of the successes of the Berlusconi government, the government that increased the minimum pension to 1.3 million pensioners. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , which created a million jobs [[Comments from Senator Giarrusso]] and that introduced the baby bonus and the social card: we have therefore title to speak. So this is not what we expected, as is not the attitude that the majority had for this measure, which was born as a decree-law on the income of citizenship and quota 100 and, once again, ends up being an omnibus, in which there is everything and more and only in the title remains limited to the only income of citizenship and poverty. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]] We hope that this measure, even if it is crooked and grabbed, will have some result: we fear that it will not be so, but we hope to be denied in fact, because we are in favour of meeting the needs of the weaker people. 38 others are connected to this measure: against a decree-law already operating, that is, 38 implementing measures are missing, that I do not know how, when and where you will do [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] and which do not only concern the government's activities, but also regulations, agreements with local authorities and so on. We were thinking of seeing a sensational novelty, but you dusted up the card, which is the famous social card that the Berlusconi Government had introduced. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] , with the difference that you require the citizen to withdraw only 100 euros per month and you worry about how, when and what other money will have to be spent: this is the participatory democracy you want to introduce. Furthermore, let us always remember that this is a measure in deficit, that is, we all pay for it and therefore we would have an interest in bringing about positive results. Among those who apply for citizenship income or pension will have to be checked 2.3 million people and what do you do? Take 65 more Carabinieri and 100 more financiers: do you think they are enough to control the great flow of data, people and questions that you will come to produce? But the resounding thing is that, at the mouth of the vice minister Di Maio, the problem of poverty will be solved not only with the money of everyone (because, I repeat, this is a measure in deficit), but also, no less, with the participation of the navigators, that I would call avatar because you do not understand what they will do, where they will come from and with which qualifications they will operate. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The navigators initially number 6,000, then become 3,000 that will probably reach 4,500 in the three-year period. Minister Di Maio takes the German system as an example. So let's start to highlight some difference. In Germany there are 2,500 employment centres; in Italy there are only 600. In Germany there are 110,000 permanent workers with a high cultural and professional profile; in Italy there are 8,000, 50 percent of whom are not even graduated. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] In Germany billions have been spent on creating a digital platform; there is no trace of it from us, and that is perhaps the reason why today in Italy employment centres are able to respond to two people per 100 who are looking for work. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] There's another fact you haven't considered. 30% of Italian taxpayers declare an income of less than 10,000 euros per year, 40% of which is in the South. You offer 750 euros per month to people who will not have to work, until proven otherwise, and you will go to mortify hundreds of thousands of workers who keep their families with a much lower sum than this! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, I believe your battle horse will be your Trojan horse. If you think you can buy the vows of the South with some change you are wrong, because in the South there is something you cannot buy, that no one has bought and that no one will buy: the dignity of us Southern! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The southerners do not want alms, but ask to know what your industrial, environmental and infrastructural policies are. That's what they want to know, and you probably don't know either! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] You see, the election results... [[Laughter.]] I know, it's funny. Risus abundat in ore stultorum, said the Latins. The results - indeed, the failures - of the last elections, not only in Basilicata, but also in Abruzzo and Sardinia, are the alarm bell of a people, the southern one, that feels betrayed by your promises that have been ignored and that will therefore make you pay a very high price even in the European elections. Therefore, what was to be the manifesto of the Europeans will be a manifesto, yes, but funeral of the Movimento 5 Stars and its politics. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] You have arranged audition cycles, but you have not heard the word, I do not say oppositions (especially for Forza Italia), but not even those associations that have some title to talk about third sector and aid to poverty. You have not listened to the Community of Sant'Egidio, Caritas and even Confindustria, which I believe has some competence in job creation. You've perched yourself in your unintelligible positions. Mr President, I have to say one thing: if we were not in a Parliamentary Chamber, it would seem that we were on the sidelines. In the provision there is a fabulous grain. Reading article 7-b, which was introduced to the House of Deputies, we realize that the income of citizenship can also be given to criminals and fugitives, but the State does not have to know it. In fact, when the State finds out, Mr President, it does not proceed to a suspension with retroactive effect, but to a suspension with immediate effect, but the money that has been received does not go back. That's the joke. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] But there is more! A party that has made the "corrupt sweep" a battlehorse is unable to exclude from the income of corrupt citizenship and corrupters. The corrupt and the corrupt can, in fact, have access to the income of citizenship. It would seem a contradiction: first you do the "corrupt sweep" to throw out the corrupt and then you give them the citizenship income. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] No, Mr President, it is not a contradiction, it is a logical thread. The Movimento 5 Stars wants out of the political administrations the corrupt; however, since even the corrupt keep families, it wants to give them the income of citizenship, at the expense of all Italians! Congratulations! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Mr President, I should also like to say a few words about the 100 quota. Friends of the League, let's face it. This 100 quota does not exceed the Fornero law at all and, probably, in three years we will have it again, aggravated by the debts you are creating. In fact, you have reached a record: increase the public debt by six billion a month. This is your record! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The 100 quota is only a temporary benefit, which will apply for three years to a few lucky people and costs between 30 and 33 billion, if account is taken of the INPS' lack of revenue and disbursements. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] But if we had used these 30 billions to... [[Live comments from the M5S Group.]] Well, you got me confused! VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP: Time! Time! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Vitali, please conclude. VITALI (FI-BP). Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. President, but it was a nice consideration, because in the League's friends' program there was the measure of super depreciation of 130 percent. Where did 130 percent of super amortization go? Evaluating expenditure per 100 billion in 30 billion, if it had been used for super-depreciation at 130 percent, and considering a contribution of 17,000 euros on demand, we would have created 1.7 million jobs! That's the truth! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Comments and ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups, whose senators stand up.]] Then, to the friends of the League, I say: "he who is too high is often falling." Meditate, colleagues of the League. We told you. You can't say we didn't tell you. And, in order to give you a response, we will vote no to this measure in a convincing way! [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations. Ironic applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u199	MATRISCIAN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, 1,974 days have passed since, on 29 October 2013, we presented, right here in the Senate, the first bill for the establishment of citizenship income, at the first signature of Senator Nunzia Catalfo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day: for the Movimento 5 Stars, for those who founded it, for those who, in recent years, have carried on, with courage, many battles, but above all for Italy as a whole. Today, in fact, millions of citizens who, day after day, have been deliberately forgotten, left (I rebadicate, deliberately) on the fringes of a blind and deaf policy to the epochal changes that have occurred, without taking the appropriate counter-measures, know that they can count on the state. A strong state, which reaches out to them, inviting them to make a new social pact, restoring to them the lost dignity and giving them hope in the future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I say it without too many twists of words. Given the crucial scope of this measure, we would have expected the Senate Assembly to vote unanimously today, especially the left who, in a contemptuous way, at some point, with some illustrious exponent, even ironized, talking about the future beneficiaries of the income of citizenship as of the poor who would spend their lives on vacation. There are even those who have launched the idea of collecting signatures for a referendum against citizenship income, which, moreover, in a re-edition of the notorious Nazarene pact, has said that they want to do the right too. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are really curious to hear what they would say if they were in front of Salvatore that at sixty-two years, after a life of work as a bricklayer, three years ago he suddenly found himself with nothing more and today, unfortunately, he lives asking for alms and eating at Caritas; or if they were to meet Francesco, who at twenty-two years old was forced to put in the background the studies for an occasional job that did not weigh him on his parents; or still before Caesar that fifty-two years after the closure of the company in which he was employed, he does cleaning for less than 250 euros per month with which he has to feed his wife and his son; not to mention Matthew who takes 450 euros per month of retirement and has an unemployed son. Not only are these stories true. These, gentlemen, are just a few examples of the country that the old governments have left us, a country that has passed from two to more than five million people in absolute poverty, just in the years when these same governments went to Europe with their hat in hand, making themselves imposed economic policies by social butchery. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] ; Years when we heard Ministers give dolls and losers to our boys, saying that for them, in order to find a job, it was better to play football than to send resumes. Do you realize that? We today, with this reform that among the qualifying points has an unmatched investment in active labour policies, we say to these same children: go to employment centers, because they will finally no longer represent a humiliation for you and for those many people who have turned to them in recent years, mixing anger with frustration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In fact, while the old governments invested 0.05% of GDP in labour services, France and Germany put five and seven times more on the plate, respectively. It's a good thing you're the competent ones. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Luckily, that time is over. Once in the government, the 5 Star Movement has put the citizens and their real needs at the centre of its political action, an action that has had as its director and foundation the protection and guarantee of the dignity of all citizens who have equal social dignity, as it is written in the incipit of Article 3 of our Constitution. For too long this assumption has been forgotten, sacrificed on the altar of profit and unbridled globalization. Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have become accustomed to the brutal idea that those who are poor must remain and die poor but not us who, in fact, as a first measure, once we arrived at the government we have launched precisely the so-called decree of dignity, that which, according to the detractors, would have provoked the apocalypse and instead the latest data tell us that there has been a real boom in the transformation of time contracts into permanent contracts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now, this path continues with the citizenship income that has as the Polar Star that word, loaded with meaning and responsibility for those who administer the country, which is always present in our Constitution, this time in Article 1: work. On this point too, your imagination has unleashed: in order not to admit that with this measure those who are now outside the labour market will be able to enjoy a new opportunity, the result of a serious process of training and retraining, you have said of all colors. The truth is that no government before ours had ever invested so much in work services to fill that gap that separates us from the main European partners. With this reform we begin to bring to Italy the level of Germany and France, in which centers for employment work respectively 100,000 and 54,000 employees. Even in the local German offices the consultants work for the job, 6,000 of which specialize in relations with the enterprises: incredible numbers when compared with those of our country, that only thanks to this intervention, after years of immobilization, will see a significant increase in the number of own employees who at the moment are only 8,000. The investment will not only be in human capital, but also in technological infrastructures to finally put in communication the demand and supply of work. If this process had started years ago, if you had listened to us when we were shouting from these benches about the urgency of establishing citizenship income, we would certainly be a step forward today. But as they say: better late than never. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With this measure, as someone very dear to us said, no one will be left behind. Only in this way can we rebuild that sense of community that this country has lost. Only in this way can we reactivate the engine of growth, an engine through which we will guide Italy towards a future of rights and opportunities. Growth and the future: these are the two pillars of the measure under discussion and of the future government action with the setting of the minimum hourly wage. In fact, productivity and consumption can only be revived by emancipating citizens from the condition of need. The combined provision of citizenship income and minimum hourly wage will have positive effects on the economy, as it increases purchasing power for workers, raises consumption and consequently feeds domestic demand, with more profits for businesses, to which further measures to reduce the tax wedge will be allocated. With this measure we send to port also another of the qualifying points of our program and of the contract of Government, that is quota 100. The Fornero law has cost us dearly, both in social and economic terms. See to believe how much the state has spent on the various safeguards. Over the next three years, one million workers will be able to retire early, opening up to generational replacement, both in the public sector and in the private sector. We have confirmed social EPAs and women's option, two other important measures. Mr President, I would like to quote our founders, Beppe Grillo and Gianroberto Casaleggio, on the return to citizenship income. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the FI-BP Group and Senator Pharaoh]] The first has always said that the income of citizenship is to see the world of work in another way, it is a civil law: it is to give people an opportunity. The second claimed that removing millions of poor from despair and poverty is a moral obligation, a battle of civilizations in which political belongings must disappear. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With these phrases, which have been our guide in the path of genesis and achievement of citizenship income, I declare the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Groups, whose senators stand, and L-SP-PSdAZ..]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u200	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSdAZ groups. Some Senators of the M5S Group show the screen of the]] tablet on which it is written "Citizen's income." It is the law of the Court You are not allowed to display signs or tablets.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u201	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u202	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u203	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, the government has not yet compensated for the damage suffered by so many families and businesses in Verona due to the flood of 1 and 2 September. On 27 February last, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers was issued that distributes the resources in order to face the serious calamitous events that have occurred in different municipalities of the country; therefore the realization of structural and infrastructural investments in order to compensate the damages that those events have caused. The beneficiaries of the resources in the country are the territories affected by exceptional weather events occurred in the years 2017 and 2018. However, the decree excludes the municipalities of Verona, Negrar, San Pietro in Cariano, Colognola ai Colli, San Martino Buon Albergo, Zevio, Belfiore, Soave, Monteforte d'Alpone, Cazzano di Tramigna and Illasi, or Municipalities that were hit by a serious flood on 1 and 2 September 2018, for which moreover the Veneto Region had already declared the state of crisis and requested the state of emergency, decreed by the Council of Ministers on 17 January 2018. Why did the government rule out Verona? Are the procedures for targeted appropriations under way? On the territory there is a great worry, also because during the examination of the bill of budget 2019, last December, an amendment of mine with which I asked 10 million euros to cover those damages was rejected by the Government. Mr President, I would like to point out here that the urgent need to re-examine the government's position, i.e. the refusal it has received so far, in order not to discriminate against the territory of Verona affected by these events compared to similar events that have occurred elsewhere and which have already been compensated. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u204	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u206	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, my speech is aimed at pointing out to this House and the Government the critical situation and the problems relating to the movement of heavy goods vehicles on the de-partemental route 6204 of Val Roia, which connects, in the Italian section, to the state road 20 of Colle di Tenda, which concerns the transport and exchange of goods between the Piedmont and Liguria regions and the South-East of France. I refer in particular to the order for a ban on heavy goods traffic issued by the French municipalities on 1 September 2017. 18.13 (Before Bergesio). On that date the mayors of Val Roia (in all five) presented a joint order to the prefecture of Nice, by which they decreed the restriction on road 6204 in their respective municipal territories to vehicles with a maximum mass of more than 19 tons. A general order, which indicates in a completely incorrect way to the transporters to choose which alternative itineraries - hear well - the journey on the A6 and A10 motorways, with an increase of seven hours more per journey and 180 euros more cost per journey and with an extension of the journey for heavy goods vehicles of as much as 200 kilometers. It is written on the prohibition that alternative times and journeys would be minimal. These absurd considerations, put in black and white in the ordinances, were not supported by any statistical data on the real use of this strategic pass for our country, but also for France. The five French municipalities concerned are in fact located in a territory language in which an international communication route passes, not a municipal road; it is a vital route. In view of the seriousness of the measure issued by the mayors of the Roia Valley, which we considered inappropriate and contrary to the productive and commercial interests of the regions concerned, we reiterate the request for the withdrawal and cancellation of the order, as already expressed by the Italian trade associations and production companies. The same companies that on 18 March, on the occasion of the visit of President Conte and Minister Toninelli to that of Cuneo, urged this measure; both had come to Cuneo to present the start of the work of the Asti-Cuneo - for which we are grateful, after seven years of interruption of this important highway - and both on that occasion said that they would take this measure to heart. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). We will be vigilant and monitor this, especially for those who live, work and transit through the Ligurian, Piedmontese and neighbouring France. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u207	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u208	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u209	FENU (M5S). Mr President, on 10 March in Sardinia, on the provincial road connecting the town of Siniscola to the nearby hamlet Marina della Caletta, Emanuele Tancale, an eighteen-year-old boy, lost his life by car while with a friend he walked home after participating in the carnival celebrations. The driver of the car was another guy like him, 22 years old. The tragedy occurred on a provincial road; a road like so many in Italy, one of those roads that lead to the sea, which in summer the children travel with scooters, by bicycle or on foot. It is a dangerous road, like many other provincial roads in Italy: a straight of 5 kilometers without lighting, where there are entrances of private houses, a school, where other roads converge, with poor horizontal and vertical signs, without sidewalks, with a road too narrow, especially for the large influx and summer traffic. A provincial road in state of abandonment, as many in Italy, due to the cuts of resources suffered in recent years by the Provinces, realized in attempt to suffocate the territorial authorities so-called Area Vasta. Today, Mr President, I want to express my closeness, as a Siniscolese, to the family of Emanuele Tancale, to the mother Antonella, to the father Gianfranco; I want to express my closeness also to Maria Antonietta, the mother of the boy driving the car, all, albeit differently and from different points of view, victims of a drama. But I would also like to invite everyone to a reflection. Our attention, the attention of the media, has recently been catalysed by doubts about the opportunity to realize some great works. I think it is necessary to think again and with greater attention also to the small works, fundamental for our safety and our loved ones. How many provincial roads do we go through the year? How many provincial roads travel our friends, family members, children, by car, bike or on foot, just like Emanuele on the night of March 10th? [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u210	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u211	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u212	DE POLI (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am putting to our attention and the attention of this House an issue that is dear to the citizens, beyond the political flags. We're talking about health, so we're talking about the right to health. In Veneto, in the province of Padua, Abano's nursing home risks being downgraded from a hospital to a supplementary structure of the public hospital network. In other words, this means a reduction in services, which is a penalty for our citizens. It means a reduction in the number of services provided, both to resident citizens and to all visitors to a tourist area such as that of the Euganean Thermal Baths, with more than 3 million visits per year. It means closing the E.R., which records 38,000 accesses every year. They are also in danger of closing the intensive care, trauma, obstetrics, resuscitation and a whole range of other services. We talk about numbers, but also quality, and especially people. According to Agenas' latest report, the Abano hospital is among the first in Italy as a quality of assistance in prostate surgery and knee surgery. It is unthinkable that the hundreds of thousands of tourists (about 800,000 each year) who visit the Euganean basin should refer for emergency and emergency services to hospital facilities, such as the Schiavonia hospital or the one in Padua, which can be reached in rush hours after more than an hour. You don't touch the services to the citizens. How can you think of closing a facility that records 42,000 users per year? To the Presidency and to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I want to put this situation which - I am sure of it - is just an example of disinvestment from our health system, which needs a strategic intervention plan, we can say a "Marshall plan." I am beginning to conclude by putting the issue of spending review in health to the attention of this House. We must change course: it is not possible to disinvest on the right to health; we must return to investing on the health of our citizens. I believe that this is a subject that we cannot ignore, as I said at the beginning, regardless of colors and political belongings. I do this because, as is well known, there has been a serious shortage of doctors, nurses and health workers at national level for years, both in our hospitals in the North and in our hospitals in the South. On the part of the majority, at present, there is an absolute lack of strategy to defend the level of quality and excellence of our National Health Service, which throughout the world, despite the criticalities and differences at the territorial level, envy us. Stipulate contracts to retired doctors, as is happening these days in some regions, is definitely a solution, but it is only a buffer solution. For example, the Veneto Region is doing this - but, as I said, it is not the only one, because they are doing the same in Molise and in other regions - to reduce the damage. The problem of the shortage of doctors, however, remains: the numbers say so. According to Anaao Assomed, 45,000 doctors will be missing in Italy in the next five years. According to the associations, according to recent Eurostat data, in the Italian hospitals in 2016 there were around 213 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, a figure that rises to 264 in France, in Germany to 237, in Spain to 227 doctors. But the national situation risks moving to 181 doctors every 100,000 inhabitants by 2025: a situation that cannot stand for the health and health of our citizens. We therefore need to review the medical training system in our universities and the number closed. More resources need to be invested in specialization schools and a new model is needed in the social and health service; more parasanitary staff is needed. Doctors spend too much time dealing with bureaucracy today. There is a problem of resources and investments. Disinvesting in the right to health is a wrong choice. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u213	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u214	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u215	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, the association "Italiadecide - Associazione di ricerca per la qualità delle politiche pubblici," President Luciano Violante, a few days ago awarded to the Chamber of Deputies, in the presence of the President of the Republic Mattarella, the company by shares Abbanoa, whose capital is entirely public, which manages in house the entire integrated Sardinian water service. An effective example of the recovery of a poor industrial and fragmented deficit that is now moving on an effective and sound management profile is: with these reasons Abbanoa has been recognized the special mention for the prestigious Italian Premio Decide, reserved this year to public companies of integrated water services. It is true that Abbanoa has made it possible to overcome the service managed by municipal administrations and companies in deficit and in liquidation, but the reorganization and the reorganization of the company, like the modernization of the structures, have paid bitterly the Sardinian citizens, and not only the terms of the highest costs, but also of extremely serious disservices. For years Sardinian citizens have been fighting, even in courtrooms, against absurd bills, with really heart attack amounts for costs of services never provided or previous balances, against threats and sometimes the slimming down of entire families unable to pay these exotic, sometimes unjustified, invoices. Entire condominiums left without water due to the morosity of some condominiums, non-drinking water, yellow or brown, which gushes for days from the taps of entire cities because of the now old pipelines, not to mention when entire villages were left for days completely without water, even during the summer season. Abbanoa has lost several cases before the judges, who have sentenced her to compensate the citizens for the damage it caused and the Antitrust itself has imposed a penalty of 680 million euros for aggressive practices and harassment against the citizens. Having said that, giving Abbanoa a prize for sound and efficient management really appears a joke in the eyes of all Sardinians. It seems to be an operation supported by a certain political area, which needs to be rewarded by itself for biech propaganda purposes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u218	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, yesterday was a black day for freedom on the Internet, because of the European Parliament's approval of the copyright directive, against which tens of thousands of people have protested this weekend and a petition with millions of signatures has been signed. "Wikipedia" has also obscured its pages to give visibility to the protest. There are those who said that on March 26, 2019 the web, as we knew it, died: created in 1989 by a scientist, Tim Berners Lee, and destroyed after thirty years, in 2019, by a politician, Axel Voss, rapporteur of this bad reform. One of the best inventions of man has been mutilated by politics, probably due to lack of technical knowledge or mere ignorance. For a person like myself who has actively participated in the birth and implementation of the Internet in Italy, this directive shows that, until the last one, the current European political class - which we will have for a few weeks in Brussels and Strasbourg - instead of protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens actually prefers to take sides in favour of the lobby of publishers. The web, since its inception, has represented a reborn opportunity for everyone to place the right to write on the same level as the right to read, the right to produce information on the same level as the right to receive information. The web is the technical-economic possibility to exercise these rights. This directive instead tends to introduce asymmetry by law: only a few have the right to inform, while all have the right to receive information, from a few content providers. The few who maintain the right to inform are those for whom it will be convenient to pay copyright. In addition to doubts about the difficulties of transposition due to long technical times, which do not allow us to know whether these rules will still be useful in the future and the vagueness and approximation of certain rules, which will result in different laws for each Member State of the European Union, the most serious aspect is that there is not a single study of the impact of the new discipline on the publishing market and on that of creative content online. The real risk is that the reform transforms the operators of the large platforms, which up to now have hosted content produced by users, into publishers. My hope and that of so many others, who share my vision, is that the current Government that had expressed itself against reform will best define the exact outlines of this new reform, so that the few positive and limited aspects will be exalted those strongly negative, in order to protect the real defeats of yesterday, which are not the giants of the web, but the European citizens, who have one last chance: to change the political class in the next European elections. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u219	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-27-LEG18-Senato-sed-103.ana.u220	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 28 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 6.30 p.m.
