ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.39 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 27 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u3	Senators and senators, this is the week of women and on 2 March, on the occasion of the initiatives "Senato & Cultura", this House has dyed pink to pay homage to the many feminine excellences, in every possible artistic declination. This was also the occasion, for us, to reflect, in view of March 8, on the history of the emancipation of women: a story made up of sacrifices, struggles but also goals, also affirmations and conquests. However, beyond the achievements achieved, which have been so many, there are, in my opinion, many things still to be done: I am thinking of the unacceptable, worrying cases of violence; I am thinking, again, of the limitations of freedom, which are and are still present in many States; I am thinking, again, of the discrimination that exists in a large part of our planet. And then, in the history of women, I think there are still many and many pages to write and I also think that you senators, with your commitment, your passion, your competence and your professionalism, will be able to make a great contribution to this House. Allow me, then, to offer a floral tribute to you all to celebrate all together, senators and senators, on March 8th. [[Parliamentary assistants distribute mimosas to women in the Chamber. The Assembly stands. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u4	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education "Gregorio Ugdulena" in Caccamo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders adopted changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 28 March. At today's sitting, the general discussion will take place on the decree-law on Banca Carige, the examination of which will continue on the day of tomorrow. The current week's calendar also provides for the discussion of motions on the establishment of the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, on the cultivation and marketing of hemp and on measures to deal with cancer diseases, and - at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday 7 March - the discussion of motions on the TAV Torino-Lion. The other topics of the week, including the question time, for which the Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Public Administration and Regional Affairs are expected to attend, remain confirmed. The week from Monday 11 to Friday 15 March will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. Tuesday 19, at 3.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make the communications ahead of the European Council on 21 and 22 March 2019. On Wednesday 20th, the Council's proposal for parliamentary elections and immunities will be discussed not to grant permission to proceed for ministerial crimes against Minister Salvini. In order to allow the Junta's proposal to be put to the vote at 1 p.m. and to organise the relevant debate - with the beginning of the explanations of vote around 11.50 a.m. - the requests for intervention in question must be received by 5 p.m. on Monday 18 March. With regard to the number of registered senators, the debate can therefore also begin at the sitting on Tuesday 19 March, after the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. The result of the vote will not be announced immediately, even if the quorum is reached. Senators who have not been able to participate in the ballot will be able to communicate their vote in a clear way to the Secretary Senators, who will take note of it in a special minutes during the next sitting, until 7 p.m. The timetable for this week also includes the follow-up to the unfinished topics, the discussion of the motion of individual distrust against Minister Toninelli, on Thursday 21 March, the draft law on the minimum hourly wage (where concluded by the Commission), the inspection union and - at 3 p.m. on Thursday 21 - the question time. In the week from 26 to 28 March the Assembly will meet for the possible third reading of the decree-law on income of citizenship and pensions and the bill on self-defence, the latter where concluded by the Commission. Motions on autism and the gold reserves of the Bank of Italy will also be discussed. I communicate that the Presidency has conferred on the senators The Quaestors are responsible for carrying out appropriate investigations into the conduct of certain senators, according to reports submitted to the Presidency, during the proceedings of the Assembly and also outside the Chamber, in order to assess the existence of the conditions for the application of the sanctions provided for in Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until March 28: [[Tuesday, March 5, h. 16,30-18 - Drawing of law n. 1063 - Decree-Law n. 1, Banca Carige (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (cancelled on March 9, 2019) - Motions on: - Establishment of the Committee for Italian Affairs abroad; - Crop and marketing of hemp; - Measures to deal with cancer diseases - Motions on the TAV Turin-Lyon (Thursday 7, 9.30 a.m.) - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs - Inspection Union - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 7, 15 a.m.) Wednesday 6 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 7 " h. 9.30-16]] The week from Monday 11 to Friday 15 March will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 19 March h. 15.30 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 March 2019 (Tuesday 19 March, 3.30 p.m.) - Document IV- bis, n. 1 - Proposal of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities not to grant permission to proceed for ministerial crimes against Minister Salvini (absolute majority vote by electronic procedure and open ballots Wednesday 20) (*) - Following unfinished arguments - Motions of individual distrust against the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport (Thursday 21) - Drawings of Law no. 310 and 658 - Minimum hourly salary (where concluded by the Commission) - Inspection union - Immediate questions, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 21, at 3 p.m.) Wednesday 20 " h. 9-20 Thursday 21 " h. 9,30]] (*) The vote will take place at 1 p.m. by simultaneous roll-call vote, without the immediate announcement of the result. Senators who have not taken part in the vote will be able to communicate their clear vote to the Secretary Senators, who will keep a note of it in appropriate minutes until the closing of voting operations, at 7 p.m. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law no. 310 and 658 (minimum timetable) will be established in relation to the Commission's work. [[Tuesday, March 26 h. 12-20 - Drawing of law n. 1018-B - Decree-Law n. 4, Income of citizenship and pensions (approved by the Senate) (where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on March 29, 2019) - Drawing of law n. 5-199-234-253-392-412-563-652-B - Legal defense (approved by the Senate) (where amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (where concluded by the Commission) - Motions: - on autism; - on the gold reserves of the Bank of Italy Wednesday 27 " h. 9.30-20 Thursday 28 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 5-199-234-253-392-412-563-652-B (Legal defence) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1063 (Decree-Law No. 1, Banca Carige) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 12' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' PD 46' FdI 30' Mixed 28' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 25' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 21 and 22 March 2019 (2 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours, of which: M5S 29' FI-BP 20' L-SP-PSd'Az 20' PD 18' FdI 12' Mixed 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 10' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1018-B (Decree-Law No. 4, Citizenship income and pensions) (5 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Majority Rapporteurs 30' Minority Rapporteurs 30' Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 43' FI-BP 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' PD 28' FdI 18' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 15' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u9	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party has voted against this timetable. In fact, we would have liked to schedule the motion of individual distrust to Mr Toninelli as soon as possible and our proposal was to do so by Tuesday next week. I believe that Minister Toninelli has pursued with great determination, in a very determined way, the search for this motion of distrust, since he has combined every to the detriment of our country and our national community. [[Applause from the PD and FI-BP groups]] So ours and other political forces felt compelled to submit this motion to Parliament. But what I find very strange in this calendar, Mr President, is that randomness which brings the timing of the motion of no confidence to Mr Toninelli the next day - and it happens, just the next day! - the examination of the request for authorization to proceed for Mr Salvini. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It seems to me that this game of exchanges - the malevolent would say mutual blackmail - between League and Movimento 5 Stars begins to become very heavy for our democracy and therefore we are very concerned. I would add that we have asked for explanations about the attitudes of the majority on the Lighthouse Convention, because we are glad to schedule it once in a while, but every time we refuse to discuss it. The proposal we are asking to put to the vote, therefore, is to include for Tuesday next week the calendarization of the motion of individual distrust to Minister Toninelli, precisely in order to remove it from the vote on the authorization to proceed towards Minister Salvini, in order to eliminate any possible temptation of exchanges, which seem inappropriate to me. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u12	MALAN (FI-BP). Mr President, we have tabled a motion of no confidence in the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Toninelli, not because we like this instrument, but because he is the only one able to intervene in good time - provided that it is discussed in good time - with regard to choices that can make Italy lose EUR 300 million of funding from the European Union in the immediate future. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In addition to all the billions that we would lose in case we maintain the position of opposition to the high-speed line that connects Italy to France and not simply Piedmont to Lyon, as the Minister has emphasized, demonstrating that it does not have a great idea of the complex of infrastructures of our Country: it is the connection of Italy with France and with the great traffics of goods and people at international level. In other words, it is a question of deciding whether to be in the most productive, most advanced part, that can have greater prospects for development in our continent, or to remain in the marginalized part. Data on the evolution of gross domestic product show that we are already in the marginalized part of the government today. We must absolutely stop the government from cutting its legs to progress in the next ten to twenty years. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We must have a penny of the foresight that Camillo Cavour had in the fifties of the nineteenth century, which had that Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] That is why we have tabled a motion of no confidence against Mr Toninelli; not so much with regard to his person, who has also accustomed us to a series of attitudes that may leave us perplexed, but for this specific aspect, namely his no, reiterated in all ways and with all the pretexts, to the high-speed line. We waited months for a cost-benefit study, the results of which were discounted, since those who were part of the commission were all, except one, deployed for decades against the TAV, beginning with his most folkloristic character, better known. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] The only one who was not aligned refused to sign the report, because it is absolutely not acceptable. Then we had a report, so we found that these costs are still negotiable: the cost is 3 and a half billion, but treatable, so they could be a little less. Then we talk about the mini-TAV, forgetting that this is an international project, enshrined in an international treaty. This is very serious: it makes Italy lose credibility, far beyond the specific fact of the high-speed line, which is also very important. We are less interested in the fact that the discussion of the motion is before or after 20 March, when the vote on the question of authorization to proceed with Minister Salvini is established, because on the TAV we have always been in favour, always, constantly, without slowing down, without having a word in Rome, another in Turin and another in Val di Susa as others have held [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] I remember that if there had been more activism on the TAV in the second part of the last legislature, today we would be much further ahead and it would be much more difficult for this irresponsible government to block the work, which is already at a very advanced level. On the question of Minister Salvini, too, we are consistent: we have always been for guarantees for the accused and for the separation between politics and justice, while others, apparently, only discover this value when it concerns someone who is in the government with them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For these reasons, we ask Minister Toninelli to vote on the motion of no confidence at all before 20 March and not because on 20 March we vote on Minister Salvini, but because that is the deadline by which Italy must move if it does not want to lose immediately, irrevocably, 300 million euros. Then, here you will bring laughable savings on other topics, but in the meantime you lose 300 million. We therefore call for the debate to take place before 20 March, as soon as possible: Tuesday. [[Applause from the FI-BP and PD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u15	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am speaking because there is a mystery at every Conference of the Leaders, which concerns the fact that we are never able to bring to a successful conclusion the ratification by Parliament of the Lighthouse Convention. As you know, Mr President, we also discussed this today: she had arrived in the Chamber and returned to the Commission. Frankly, I really cannot understand why the majority - or at least part of the majority - continue to oppose the ratification of a very important convention, which was signed by Italy in 2013. Almost six years have passed and it seems to me that the time has come to ratify it, also because the convention deals with very important aspects, I would say revolutionary with respect to cultural heritage because it introduces the concepts of cultural heritage, of heritage community. I understand that perhaps the words 'community of inheritance' to someone may be indigestible, but I believe that it would be absolutely appropriate to address the debate in this House anyway because I believe that the ratification of the Faro Convention can really mark a step forward, showing that there can be a true exploitation of conventions and treaties in Europe that are heading in the direction - as each of us has hoped in Europe - of the promotion of very important shared values, such as those considered in the Faro Convention. That is why, Mr President, it is true that next week it is dedicated to the work of the Commissions, but I believe that on Tuesday we can very well put the ratification of the Faro Convention on the agenda and then proceed quietly with the work of the Commissions. I therefore call for this ratification to be scheduled for next week. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u18	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking and I think I am speaking on behalf of the majority - I do not know if Mr Patuanelli would like to speak - to reject the reconstruction made by minorities on the Conference of Leaders. We have made ourselves available first of all on the subject of the FTA, because it is in this week's calendar that we have tabled a motion by the minorities that we have scheduled as soon as the minorities have asked us to do so. With regard to the motion of no confidence, at the Conference of the Leaders, we kept our commitment, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure, to make a week's sitting and a week's Commission, and that is why the first useful week is the week from 18 March onwards, so that we have scheduled the motion of no confidence on 21 because, as has been mentioned, on Tuesday there is President Conte and on Wednesday we are discussing the issue of the Diciotti case. Honestly we do not understand the history of do ut des; it remains a bit difficult, also because if we had scheduled the motion of distrust in Toninelli the week before, someone could have talked about exchanges on the contrary. But above all, the motion of no confidence has been tabled by you; you asked us to discuss it, as far as we are concerned we could have discussed it in six months' time, as a testimony that there is no use on the subject. We understand that we are at a time when political alchemy must be sought at all costs. To President Marcucci, well-known alchemist of Italian politics, we wish good continuation and good work: to the next one, of course, since we are really very curious to see what will be invented for the next session. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u21	MARGIOTTA (PD). Mr President, I rise on the proposal made by Senator Marcucci. I repeat what President Marcucci said about the wrong choice of the date not only for the reasons mentioned above, but, above all, for the urgency of the issue of distrust of Minister Toninelli. There is urgency for two reasons. First of all, this is a delicate moment for the country: we are in a technical recession and GDP is constantly being revised downwards in the forecasts. It would be useful to relaunch public investment, while - on the contrary - they are blocked. Two of the first three companies in this country for turnover in recent years are in serious difficulty and risk the disappearance. Next week there will be a major demonstration of the sector, hit by a crisis that has already led to the reduction of 600,000 jobs. We need a serious policy of planning and relaunching public works and, in order to do this, we need a competent minister, which, of course, is not Mr Toninelli. Then there is a second reason much more compelling and important: I refer to the attitude to the lie of many ministers and, in particular, in this case, of Minister Toninelli. In the management of the dossier on the TAV has lied several times. He lied to the country; he lied to Parliament; he lied to the government of another country; he lied to the European Union. Lies. He passed on cost-benefit analysis for innovative activity; it's a lie. He said he stopped the bans; another lie (in this, I add, fortunately). He stated that there is no tunnel dug in that place, evidently continuing to mess with the Brenner tunnel. That doesn't exist, while the others exist! [[Applause from the PD Group]] There are already several kilometers of the base tunnel excavated, as well as service tunnels. It has commissioned a Commission - it has already been said - far from super-partes. The errors of the cost-benefit analysis will be discussed when we discuss the motion. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a very delicate, even more important and serious issue in my view. Reliability is a primary asset in the economy. Who trusts a country that changes its decisions in the race? This was told to you days ago, not a member of the Democratic Party or of the minority, but your Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance. Minister Tria said, literally, that if you do not respect the pacts, as could happen for the high-speed train Turin-Lion, no one will come to invest in Italy anymore. And, again, the Minister said that the problem is not the TAV line and the cost-benefit analysis, as it has to be understood that no one will ever come to invest in Italy if every Government that arrives changes the laws retroactively and the contracts and it is not up to the pacts. Mr President, this Minister is seriously damaging the country's economy and, therefore, its citizens. For this reason, it is sacrosanct to schedule the debate on the motion of no confidence soon, already next week. Above all, it is sacrosanct that we vote for this Minister's distrust. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u22	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the agenda of the Assembly to move the discussion of the motion of no confidence against Minister Toninelli to Tuesday next week, tabled by Senators Marcucci and Malan. It's not approved. Mr Ferrari (PD). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the debate on the ratification of the Faro Convention at the sitting of Tuesday next week, tabled by Senator De Petris. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u23	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1063, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Bagnai, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u24	Mr President, at its meeting on 27 February last, the 6th Commission completed its examination of the draft law for the conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 2019, approving the mandate to the rapporteur, Senator Bottici, who will not be able to carry out this task today for health reasons. I will try to replace it properly by addressing my best wishes for a prompt re-establishment. The report does not present any particular harshness, since the subject is well known both in the critical issues that have emerged in the management of this institution and in the approach that has been adopted, which takes up what the previous majority had adopted in some similar cases. I recall briefly that the criticalities in which the institute came up have two orders of motivation: the more general criticalities, deriving on the one hand from the double recession passed by our economy in the period from 2008 to 2013-2014, and then the progressive adoption, not always timely, of European regulations that have increased the requirements of capitalization of the banks, thus leading to subsequent requests for recapitalisation. In addition, there are specific problems, which have been widely discussed, which relate to the governance of the institution in question, and which, in the reports that were carried out during the hearings (information material and memoirs were filed during the hearings of the 6th Chamber and Senate Committees in joint session), have highlighted a character in some ways of self-referentiality and also the vice of some potential conflicts of interest in management, which certainly have not helped. The trigger factor was, as we will recall, the fact that at the extraordinary meeting convened on 22 December 2018, a proposal for an increase in share capital was not approved, which had been requested on the basis of a capital weakness recognised by the ECB, which had asked to intervene. Following the outcome of the meeting, on 2 January four members of the Board of Directors resigned and this led to the revocation of the body. On 2 January the ECB initiated the extraordinary administration of Banca Carige, which was in substantial continuity with the previous administration. The measure that we are examining, and of which, for the benefit of colleagues, I briefly summarize the main content, aims to prepare urgent measures to support the extraordinary administration of the bank and to promote a resolution of the crisis based on market solutions, as the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Tria, explicitly said during his hearing. The measure is divided into two heads. Chapter I (Articles 1 to 11) regulates the granting of the State guarantee on specific financial instruments issued by Banca Carige (Articles 1 to 8) and on the loans granted discreetly to the same bank by the Bank of Italy in the event of a serious liquidity crisis, so we are talking about the so-called Emergency liquidity assistance (ELA). The guarantee is, of course, granted by the MEF in compliance with the European State aid framework, which means that it is a guarantee that essentially comes at a cost that must be aligned with market costs. Debt instruments that can access the guarantee must have been issued after the date of entry into force of the Decree-Law, be denominated in euro, have a residual maturity of not less than two months and not more than five years, provide for the repayment of the capital in a single maturity solution with interest calculated on the basis of a constant and predetermined rate (i.e. be substantially at a fixed rate) and then be simple products of a senior type, i.e. do not have subordinate clauses in the repayment of the capital and in the payment of interest. The guarantee is costly, as mentioned above, in homage to European State aid legislation, unconditional, irrevocable and on first demand and covers capital and interest. The value of financial instruments with a maturity of more than three years on which the collateral may be provided may not exceed one third of the total nominal value of the financial instruments issued by the bank. The consideration for the guarantee is differentiated from the duration of the transaction with a series of calculations, which are also subject to the decree-law, and determined from a basic valuation which is then integrated with a component that measures the credit risk related to market indices, in line with the Commission's communications. The guarantee must be requested with an application addressed to the Treasury Department and the Bank of Italy; the latter checks its adequacy and communicates it to the Treasury after which the claim for the guarantee is notified to the European Commission. Paragraph 3 of Article 7 states that the guarantee may be granted only as a result of the positive decision of the Commission. I would like to remind you, in this regard, that in the hearing of Consob Dr. Apponi, in his full memory, reminds us that, in a press release of 18 January 2019, Carige informs us that he has requested the MEF to issue the public guarantee for two bond issues for a total amount of two billion euros, with a duration of twelve and eighteen months respectively. The procedure has gone on and the relevant authorization has also arrived. Within two months of granting the guarantee, where the liabilities have not already been repaid, the bank is required to submit a restructuring plan to confirm its viability and long-term collection capacity without recourse to public support. For as long as it benefits from the guarantee, Banca Carige SpA is subject to particularly stringent constraints with regard to its own capital transactions: it cannot distribute dividends, it cannot make discretionary payments on Additional Tier 1 instruments, it cannot buy back those instruments or acquire new holdings. If the bank is unable to fulfil the guaranteed obligation, it shall, as a general rule, send a reasoned request for the activation of the guarantee to the Bank of Italy and the Treasury, which shall make payment. The bank reimburses the sums paid by the State to the Erario increased with the application of interest at the legal rate. The amounts paid by the Treasury to credit institutions to honour the guarantee are bound by destination and not available to other creditors of the bank for different reasons. Then there is the guarantee related to the ELA, i.e. the instruments placed to guarantee emergency liquidity. The State guarantee, in this case, complements the realisation value of the so-called collateral (i.e. the financial assets used as collateral for this liquidity provision) that has already been allocated by Banca Carige under the ELA. In the event of default, the guarantee shall be excused as a result of that relating to the collateral itself for the remaining amount due. The usual State guarantee rules on newly issued liabilities shall apply mutatis mutandis. Chapter II of the measure (which has not yet been implemented) regulates asset reinforcement measures which consist of the possibility of a public precautionary recapitalisation; for this purpose, the MEF is authorised to subscribe to or purchase shares of Banca Carige, subject to a specific request from the institution. (17.21) (Follow BAGNAI, f.f. rapporteur). Compared to this hypothesis, in the press release issued on 8 January 2019, the commissioners of Banca Carige have specified that the precautionary recapitalisation measures are to be considered as an additional measure to protect customers, to be activated as entirely residual hypothesis. The recapitalisation requests will have to be preceded by the submission to the competent supervisory authority of a capital strengthening programme and these restructuring plans will have to adapt to the principles that the European Commission lays down, in particular the actions of so-called burden sharing, i.e. sharing the weight of the intervention, or sharing the burdens between bondholders and shareholders. I start to conclude quickly, partly because I see that the subject is widely known and also quite uninteresting for most of my colleagues. The measure also clarifies that the subscription of the shares by the MEF is made only after the application of the burden-sharing measures, which consist essentially - significant detail - in the conversion into newly issued shares of the subordinated instruments in circulation, which in this case were signed by the Voluntary Intervention Scheme of the interbank Fund for the protection of deposits and, for a residual part, by Banco Desio last November. So there are no retail investors in possession of instruments that can be converted into shares. I conclude by recalling that during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies Article 21-a has been inserted, according to which the Minister of Economy and Finance transmits to the Chambers a four-monthly report on the requests submitted and the interventions made pursuant to the Decree-Law. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u25	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, European standards, as rapporteur Bagnai said, dictate three-step procedures: state guarantee on bonds, procedure already activated for 2 billion (two issues for a total of 2 billion to 12 and 18 months); the second step is the guarantee on loans from the Bank of Italy; the third step is the subscription of the capital increase by the State (a procedure already followed in other cases). The Forza Italia Group in the House said yes to the conversion of the decree-law, because it cannot be done otherwise. On behalf of the Group I would like to make a few observations that derive from a statement that I lovingly make: in the movie "Mary Poppins," addressed to a children's audience and that perhaps some of us saw at that age or with our children, there is the scene in which panic is generated, because the two children, children of a banker, to bring the father home (never present and too busy), spread a false news and generate panic. At that point, everyone picks up. My comments are as follows: how is Carige today? I would like to ask the government; I know that there is no reply, but is it possible that the Senate should know that from the newspapers? How's Bank Carige? The most important customers pick up, as other authoritative customers did between Christmas and New Year for large amounts? Or: do the customers who are in debt fall in? Do they move and guarantee the activity of the bank? Could we give directions for the industrial plan in the measure? How will the valuation of asset securities be done in the industrial plan? At current value or redemption value? The difference is in fact remarkable. The rationalizations already announced through the closure of branches - it seems to be a hundred open perhaps in periods when Berta was running, when the costs and the anti-economics of some of them were not taken into account - or the thousand layoffs: is this rationalization? I say this as a liberal force: I am against it. Will the recovery of profitability in twelve or eighteen months, in order to return the bond with interest and a commission, be borne by the scissors between interest and interest rates, today very low? Can bank charges practiced today be borne with some ease? It is told to my country that one morning in which there were no customers in the bank, one employee did to the other: "I saw it pass, charges Even ten euros, because they had not yet enlivened the profit and loss account. How will the bank's investments in securities and other financial assets be assessed and determined? I believe that these are important elements, on which it would have been right to displease. The famous NPLs - which, in my opinion, are increasingly high in the banking system than is calculated and declared - for one part, have already been sold billions and tranches, while for another hour there are in progress further requests from companies, always public, composed, as you know, by SGA, the subsidiary of the MEF, and Fund Credit, for a value of 1.5 billion. Well, those on deteriorated loans are expensive transactions, because they have to be spent in the profit and loss account (although taking into account the birth of the NPLs, at two or seven years old). As I have already said in the Commission, I believe - and this is my view - that the remuneration of the administrators of the past, at the time when 'errors' were committed - I shall call them so - must be repaid and that Commissioners should be paid in a fair manner, but tending to fall, since today the market is also downward for managers. Can we ever see the list of the most important debtors? We asked for it from Forza Italia with an amendment that will probably be dismissed. On the controls of Banca d'Italia and Consob we attended the joint hearings with the Chamber, but one agency tells the story and throws responsibility on the other. I believe that banks should be monitored mainly on the merits by the Bank of Italy. Does the government want to nationalize a future, through the subscription of capital - in the necessary way, but also over 50% - or is it in favour of aggregations? I'm going to the government, kindly. Intesa Sanpaolo and Unicredit said they weren't interested yet. Perhaps they will want to buy Carige, a historical bank, among the top ten or twelve in Italy, and important for Genoa, at this time, and Liguria: they will want to buy it at a symbolic value, as happened in the past? That's not good. We will also nationalize Alitalia and everything else, but we are out of the world and its trends. I would also like the government to say officially with a note if there is still tax credit, as reported in the budget of Carige of 2017 - of which we are in possession, because public - equal to 1.9 billion. The decree-law could have said 'I pay the tax credit immediately and I don't even have to make the loan; I erode and give the necessary liquidity to the institution so that it can move forward'? Could it have been done? The ownership of Banca d'Italia in Carige is 4.05: the norm - which I do not know if it is written or customary - speaks in general of 3%. This one percent more is worth 75 million and the whole 4 percent share is worth 300 million: Could Carige sell this stake and cash it for cash? These are the questions posed by a neutral, technical observer in the broadest sense. Like Forza Italia, my colleagues, Mr Conzatti, Mr Sciascia and I have tabled amendments in the 6th Commission. I know that we are in the second step and we are four days away from the expiry of the decree, so it can no longer be remedied. I am talking about our amendments and, if necessary, about others, about any party: some constructive contribution could have been taken into account, in order to include other elements relating to banks in a decree-law that talks about banks. I have tabled a number of amendments in my personal capacity on the BCC issue, which is an analogy of the same subject, because someone has to remember in this House that there is the problem of the BCCs. Law No. 49 of 2016 was a mistake, having been dictated by situations of the moment (I just say so). The amendments to the tax decree that I have already mentioned, subject to the deadline, could have been included; I have proposed the amendments which have already been tabled to the tax decree and to the budget law and which have not been accepted, although I believe that these amendments could have been accepted by at least one part of the majority. I am told that today there are ICCREA circulars addressed to the BCCs every day, à gogo, that dictate the future rules, and that the BCCs have begun to understand that they decreed their death. In addition, there is a legal action by Cassa Centrale Banca against ICCREA, on the percentage of more than 15 percent owned by the members of Cassa Centrale in ICCREA, being also members of ICCREA itself. The rule provides for a maximum of 15%; what is more must be surrendered and has no right to vote. So we started creating problems, because we weren't brave in maintaining the autonomy and mutuality of the BCCs. Forza Italia has therefore made these observations, which I believe are, if not acceptable, at least acceptable from a strictly rational and technical point of view. We know - I repeat - that we are in the second step, but we will stick to this rule, constructive as always, on a sensitive matter such as that of banks. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Turco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u28	Mr President, the decree-law that this House is about to convert into law has intervened in an unprecedented emerging context and responds to a questionable European perspective. In particular, the act of commissioning of 2 January 2019 ordered by the European Central Bank, considered in the public debate as a due act, represents the first of a series of critical issues at European level on which the Italian Parliament is called to debate and reflect. The case of Banca Carige, in fact, is the first act of extraordinary administration ordered by a private bank such as the European Central Bank, which, although participated by the central banks of the Member States, is indirectly with large private participation. The question then arises: how is it possible for any institution responsible to fail to see in the ECB's act of commissariat a possible conflict of interest, which can indirectly favour someone and disadvantage others? This is especially so where the ECB justifies the decision for the non-meeting resolution to raise a debt of 320 million to equity, while neglecting the inevitable repercussions that such a decision would have on the value of each action. What happened to Banca Carige is framed in a broader and more perverse perspective, practiced for years now, that is to say to support, contrary to the American economic vision, that even small banks can create systemic crises. In this area, in fact, the recent and absurd reform of cooperative credit has come to mature in Italy, which will tend to make the rural coffers disappear, which for centuries represent a strong lever of development for our country's territorial economies. On this economic contrast too, politics will have to question and reflect, aware that, in the absence of a radical change, the banking scenario is destined to characterize itself in the not very distant future for the presence of a few large banks, with inevitable repercussions on the real economy for the difficulties of access to credit by small and medium-sized enterprises and families. In so doing, the banking market is destined for oligopoly. The problem of Banca Carige, relating to non-recapitalisation, also makes it possible to highlight another anomaly of the European banking model, i.e. that of valuation accounting rules. In this respect, questionable and strict accounting rules have been introduced which provide for capital constraints on uses, which are oddly more stringent on loans granted than investments in second and third tier speculative derivatives. This decision does not consider that such financial instruments are difficult to assess in terms of both the correct determination of the fair value of their book value and the impact of the risk underlying the actual and concrete recoverability of the investment implemented. Despite the danger of such speculative instruments for the banking and economic system, at European level it is preferable to focus attention on deteriorated loans by introducing strict accounting rules instead of placing limits and constraints on investment in derivatives, where, moreover, it is easier to conceal latent losses, alter budgetary information and defraud savers third parties. The call for different attention also stems from the different value weight in terms of systemic risk that deteriorated loans have in the economy of the European banking system, where the latter amount, according to the data of the 2018 quarter, to about 820 billion euros compared to the 600,000 billion euros of investments in derivatives. Another anomaly of the European system of rules is the centrality of assets with respect to income capacity, in the sense that it tends to assess the impact of equity on jobs, failing to consider the company's ability to create income and make debt sustainable. It is true that the profitability of the banks affects the ability of the banks to recover the loans granted, however, in relation to this, it should be asked why companies and households fail to pay their debts to the banking system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] An in-depth examination of this issue would help to understand the real cause of the crisis in credit institutions. In the face of this social and economic problem, it does not seem to me that Europe and previous governments have introduced appropriate measures. In order not to address the real problem of the banking crisis, loans were granted at a zero comma rate to banks and imposed absolutely high levels of assets in relation to employment; the increasing devaluation of loans deteriorated in defined percentages and in contingency times within the three years for non-performing loans (NPLs) without guarantee was introduced and within seven years for those with collateral. These last requirements, completely detached from the economic context in which the company operates and from the different territorial efficiency of the Italian justice system, are also unjustified. Finally, the new reform promoted by the European Union on the NPLs is leading to another important phenomenon that could even compromise the very survival of the Italian banking system. This is the transfer of entire non-performing credit portfolios to specialised, mainly international financial corporations. In conclusion, apart from the causes that have affected the economic and financial situation and the loss of 80% of Bank Carige's value, the intervention of the ECB's commissioning is questionable both for the peremptority of the application of a European regulation and for the possible economic and legal effects of a constitutional nature that will not fail to produce. It is true that the system of European rules and controls did not prevent the crisis of one of the Italian historical banks, Carige, born in 1483. In twenty years, those who preceded us were able to destroy what was built over seven centuries. I conclude my brief speech by quoting a passage from the song VI of the Purgatory of the divine poet, who, with regard to the occupation of the Nordic peoples on Italy, had to say: Ahi serve Italy, of hostel pain, ship without knuckle in great storm, not woman of provinces, but brothel. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u30	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I welcome the decree-law we are debating today and we will vote on it. It is, without a doubt, a useful measure for Italy, Genoa and Liguria. Useful for Italy, because it is important to have a balanced credit system that does not generate crises. It is useful in Genoa and Liguria, because Banca Carige is a primary actor of that territory. It is a decree-law that saves the accountants and their savings; a decree that saves the companies to which Banca Carige lends money; a decree that saves the workers, not only of Carige, but also of the client companies of Banca Carige. The measure contains two different options for the future of the bank. The guarantee for newly issued liabilities, provided for in Article 1 of the Carige decree, but also provided for in Article 1 of the decree for the protection of savings made by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, and the prudential recapitalisation, provided for in Article 12 of the decree Carige in question, but also provided, in identical form, by Article 13 of the decree-law for the protection of savings made by the Government Gentiloni Silveri. The two options of intervention have a different temporality. The State guarantee provided for the new bond issues tells us that, rightly, the search for a market solution for the management of the problems of Carige is a priority. This is an important and strong message that is given to the country. No one thinks the state can run to "put the pieces" where others have made mistakes. Of course, the importance of protecting the credit system requires the State to intervene with aid measures but, at first instance, this aid results in support for private initiative. It is not a matter of replacing the private sector. So at the moment there is no nationalization on site. The second option provided for by the decree-law (in fact, by decree-laws, since in the same way in the last two years there has been a banking crisis), that of prudential recapitalisation, is not at all contrary to the privileged solution of the market. In this case too, it is a clear message, sent to those interested in acquiring Carige, because you cannot negotiate endlessly and play the pull and spring to bargain on the selling price. For any state recapitalisation, we all know that the European Union's authorisation would be necessary, because any intervention should not be seen as State aid prohibited by European rules. Just this morning, the European Commissioner for Competition, Margrethe Vestager, during her hearing in the Senate, said that state aid laws exist to support banks, allowing financial stability to be maintained, but that the other objective is to ensure that competition between banks is fair and that taxpayers do not end up paying too high a bill. A principle defended in more than 500 cases in Europe, said the European Commissioner. It is therefore necessary to keep the door open for intervention which would require European approval, and it is clear that this is a possibility which could, however, be necessary to give rise to the positive reasons in support of the decree-law which I referred to at the opening of this speech, so that I must keep this door open, Mr President, I would like to make a suggestion to the majority. Do not go to war - let me say this - against the European allies. Visits to people who are fomenters of crowds are useless; the free insults presented to European institutions and European institutional representatives are useless; the journalistic services broadcast by public TV, which make state television unworthy of the role it has played at European and international level, are useless. [[Applause from the PD Group]] They're self-harmful attacks. Instead, we should seek alliances and not fractures with European partners, because when we need support and help, when this happens, we will not have to be in a position to receive slaps from those who have been insulted by representatives of the majority. In recent years the Democratic Party has done much to protect the credit system, so savers, workers and businesses. The reform of popular banks as well as the self-reform of cooperative credit have responded to the strategic need to consolidate the capital strength of the credit system precisely in order to better cope with systemic crises. The banking crises that have taken place in recent years have therefore been addressed within the framework of this strategy and also the crisis in Carige has been addressed precisely with the same aims and the same assumptions. Therefore, the Carige Decree-Law is in complete continuity with the policies developed by the PD Governments on banking crises and the credit system. We have the same legal framework, because the decree-law Carige and the one on banking crises are exactly the same; we have the same strategic direction, that is to favor aggregations and acquisitions that strengthen the assets of the credit system, the asset holding itself and the ability to dispose of suffering. We even have the exact same forecast of a possible bail in, although obviously not desired. However, Article 20 of the decree-law Carige, using the same words as Article 22 of the so-called decree-law Gentiloni Silveri, states that the recapitalisation by the State, that is, the possible nationalization, can intervene only after the application of burden-sharing measures, with the aim of limiting the use of public funds. As is well known, through the bail in they are called to pay the shareholders and privileged bondholders of the banks and not the community with general taxation. Thus, Article 20 of the Decree-Law lays down certain measures to be taken before the State recapitalisation, i.e. nationalisation, including the conversion into ordinary shares of the savings shares. In essence, the saving action that had been acquired by the saver on the stock exchange is degraded by a step, making him lose the related capital gains and increasing instead of a step the risk of total zeroing in case of resolution of the bank. If that is not enough, subordinated bonds are also converted into ordinary shares. This is the so-called burden sharing, one of the bail measures provided for in the legislation. I therefore ask myself: where are the differences between our decree-law and the policies that we have put in place in order to protect the credit system? [[Applause from the PD Group]] For all the considerations I have set out, therefore, as we cannot deny what we have done to protect savings, credit systems and work, we can only be in favour of the decree-law in question. One aspect remains to be considered, which translates into a question which, through the President of the Council, I would like to address to the majority. You have presented and voted on a decree-law that, for strategies, regulatory framework and interventions, is exactly the same as what we had produced and you do it after on our measures you have dumped shameful attacks, after you have viciously reproached us, after some of our representatives have dumped mud unnecessarily! [[Applause from the PD Group]] I ask you: with what dignity will you vote in favour of this measure, identical to what we voted for when you made a shameful statement on ours? At least have the dignity to apologize for the attacks that you have addressed to us and have the dignity to apologize to the Italians for the falsehoods that you have told them. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u31	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Bagnai in his report has made an impression, because he spoke to a somewhat distracted House, saying that this issue is probably so well known that there is no need to talk about it. In fact, in my opinion, this is a topic worth talking about, because the one under consideration is really one of the decrees-laws symbol of contradiction (but perhaps not even this term makes the idea of what you can think of looking at the measure under consideration), of the involution, of the continuous change of face or of the transforming ability. I really don't know what definition to use, because I don't get the term. However, the real point is that the Government has copied the decree-law Carige from the text of the provision that had written before the Government of the PD and I think, in this case, Minister Padoan. On this there would be nothing strange, because in the end you can copy, but that's not the point. The point is that the Movimento 5 Stars has unleashed God's wrath on the decree-law of Minister Padoan and what was previously considered a banche-saving decree has now become a saving-saving decree. I understand that we in the minority are a little weak from the point of view of communication, but in this House we have to say that we are faced with a text that is the same as another, but that changes with regard to external communication. The other issue for which, in my opinion, this measure deserves attention is the fact that neither the Government of the Democratic Party - when it has been dealing with the crises of some banks - nor the current Government have the clear ideas on how the banking crises must be managed today. I am frankly a little tired of seeing the enemy change according to the banking crisis in turn: first it was the family, while today I hear about the ECB and then the summits of the Bank of Italy. It is not possible: we must understand at what time we are, especially from the point of view of assessing the economic crisis, and find a way forward. It may be the way of those who decide that it is right for taxpayers to support banks, because in fact they support savers when they blow up, or the way of those who say it is not fair for the taxpayer or for those who managed the bank. In my opinion, everyone can think as they please, but it is clear that the banking system, even if it is full of government bonds, cannot be abandoned to itself. Regarding some considerations that have been made, for example by those who proposed to nationalize Carige, we must not forget that, even in this case with a decree-law equal to that of Padoan, the vice-premier Di Maio had started throwing in the left talking about a decree-law that would save save savers, nationalizing the Carige. I am going to conclude, because the time is short. That is a serious argument, which could have provided an opportunity for general reflection on the fact that savers cannot be left alone. Go and see what they've done with the diamond scam, to understand what banks and intermediaries can still do today. But we don't need shows from this point of view. After all, it has been turned back on many topics and banks are one of the various arguments on which the Government has turned back in relation to its own positions. Let us therefore be clear about the choice made in the economic context and spare us, if possible, the scenery of the "enemy": Commissions of inquiry, reset, etc. This is about saving a territory that had joined a bank of a territorial nature, taking into account the general picture given by the economic crisis. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u35	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, we arrived at 6 p.m. and we had already said at the Conference of the Leaders that we held an untenable meeting of our Group for this very hour. We therefore asked for the House's willingness to proceed now with a suspension. We had, of course, made the request with flexibility: if we had not had a few speeches at the end of the general debate, we could have postponed our meeting for some time, but without much more speeches, I think it is right to put the subject right now, in the vicinity of 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u36	As no comments are made, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u37	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-96.ana.u38	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 6 March, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.58 p.m.
