ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law No 5-199-234-253-392-412-563-652-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the bill of popular initiative; of the initiative of Senators La Russa and others; Ginetti and Astorre; Caliendo and others; Mallegni and others; Ginetti and others; Gasparri and others; Romeo and others, and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator Ostellari, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law - as is widely known - is once again before this House. The text has been modified by the Chamber only to the financial coverage profiles. The measure consists of nine articles, among which only one has been amended: this is article 8, paragraph 1, which introduces the new article 115-a within the single text of the laws and regulations relating to the costs of justice. The provision extends the rules on legal aid, the criteria and the procedures for winding up, and therefore the remuneration and expenses for the defence, in favour of the person in respect of whom storage, dismissal or non-negotiation have been ordered to proceed for the facts committed in conditions of legitimate defense or innocence. It is precisely the provision of coverage that has been amended by the Chamber of Deputies: with respect to the text approved by the Senate in October last year, which provided for coverage for that financial year as well, the other branch of Parliament has intervened, obviously starting the burden since 2019 and adapting the financial coverage accordingly to the current three-year period 2019-2021. This change was made necessary because, pursuant to Article 18 (3) of Law No 196 of 2009, the shares of the current part special funds related to measures not finally approved by the end of the year constitute a budgetary economy. That is the technical content of the reform that we are going to examine today, with regard to Article 8. Before the last act, in which the path will end, give me a clarification on the concept of defence, which is not offended, but its opposite: it seems trivial, yet in few, commenting on this reform, they understood the ontological difference that exists between defending, defending and offending. If someone enters my home without my consent, he is already threatening my life and endangering that of my loved ones, because he chose to cross a line, committing an action that has aroused in me the well-founded suspicion that he will stop at nothing, even at the risk of harming my safety and that of those close to me. If someone enters my house with violence and without asking permission, not only did he put me in a position to avoid, escape or evaluate his degree of danger, since I succeed, but he did much more: he necessarily placed me in the condition, uncomfortable and not required, not only to defend me, but also to have to defend me, and this is fundamental: he made, that is, my necessary action, not optional; he created a situation for which defending me and my loved ones is not only a choice, but also a moral obligation, if not also a legal one. What, then, should be the state's position in the face of this? For someone it should be first of all of doubt, uncertainty and suspicion; for us not: the defense, in these circumstances and in these places, must always be considered, unless proof otherwise, fully legitimate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] If I defend myself, the jurisdiction of the State does not fail, indeed, it remains precisely to avoid the abuse of the law and tomorrow it is up to the State and it will be up to it to assess whether the exercise of the defence does not become an excuse to carry out an unmotivated offense. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we heard that with this reform we want to replace the individual with the state? A lot, too many times. I say this clearly: from tomorrow the private domicile of the Italians will not become the far west; it will not be an area where everything is worth; it will not become a space alien to the law; instead it will be a territory in which - as in all the others of human action - the law clearly distinguishes who is the victim and who is the executioner, who is in the right and who is not and where the magistrates realize and will continue to realize the jurisdiction of the State, but with a difference compared to the past: in well defined situations, the citizen who defends himself from an offense always commits legitimate action. Reacting to a concrete threat to eliminate a danger, in the forms of my spontaneity, in situations and moods that I have not chosen or caused, cannot be a fault, but it is a right and, perhaps, also a duty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the text that we are called upon to vote has therefore undergone only the one amendment that we said before. It is a text that has unified many draft laws and received various requests from the Commission, both from those whom we intend to protect - I am referring to decent citizens who have been forced to defend themselves - and from representatives of associations, judges and lawyers. It is a text on which we have worked with scrupulousness and conscience, born from the dialectical confrontation between the parties. Therefore, it is thanks to the Government, to the majority of my fellow senators and also to those of the minority - certainly they have not spared criticism of this reform - if today we are faced with a text of common sense, an expected and balanced reform. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's go approve it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u6	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the rapporteur's words and I fully agree with them. Too bad that the rapporteur's words are followed by a legislative text which still presents - in our view - several shortcomings. This is certainly a step forward and we will therefore vote in favour of it, but we believe that it would have served more courage, dear President, although certainly not in the area of reforming Article 2044 of the Civil Code. In fact, with paragraphs 2 and 3 that the bill introduces, compensation for the damage against those who introduce and attack is finally excluded. There will no longer be the paradox for which the aggressor who defends himself must also compensate the aggressor. This is certainly an important step forward, as is paragraph 3 of Article 2044 of the Civil Code, which, in the event of a manslaughter, limits compensation to a fair allowance left to the fair appreciation of the judge. Too bad - but this does not depend on the legislator - that this reform applies only to the future, since it is not a more favourable criminal rule. I repeat, however, that it would have served more courage, dear rapporteur, for example by listening more to the proposals that have come from several parts - especially from the Brothers of Italy - in order to some simple considerations that I go briefly to exemplify. Also in the new text it is expected that the weapon used by those who defend themselves must be legitimately held. Then I want to give two simple examples, drawn from my professional experience. Think of a father who leaves the apartment where his son lives and moves to the nearest house, or a person who changes the barrel of the rifle and denounces the barracks of the carabinieri, but forgets to indicate the serial number. After many years the same person changes residence, returns to the barracks and is denounced because in the previous complaint the rifle was not brought back. Well, in these two cases, if those two people used the weapon, they would be subjected to a criminal proceeding for voluntary murder, with the rule that we are about to approve. If the two elderly married couples who were attacked and wounded in their homes had defended themselves with such a weapon, they would have been convicted of murder and, according to the rule that this majority approved, they would not only have been required to compensate for the damage, but even the aggressors, once they had left the prison, would have obtained the income of citizenship. We have tabled an amendment to resolve this clear incongruity and it has been rejected. But let's move on. Article 52, paragraph 2, has remained unchanged, except for the addition of that "always" which does not require a jurist to understand that it has no regulatory scope. Well, according to this paragraph 2, those who use the weapon to defend their own safety are assisted by the proportion between the defense and the offense; those who use the weapon to defend their own or others' property are not assisted by such presumption, but must demonstrate in the first place that there was no existence on the part of the aggressor and, secondly, that there was a danger of aggression. But I ask you how do those who are attacked in their own home know if those who come in with violence want to attack him personally or simply want to steal his silverware: do an interview? Stop the individual who has entered his house by force and asks him if he wants only silverware - and then he cannot react - or if he wants to rape his wife and daughter, kill him, torture him and torture him? By the time the aggressor ascertains if these were the intentions, he will already be dead. We have tabled an amendment to resolve this incongruity and it has been rejected. To give another example: in Article 55 the new paragraph introduced provides that, in the cases referred to in the domestic defense, the punishable offence is excluded if the person who committed the event acted in the name of the safeguard of his own or others' safety, and there is no reference to the own or other property referred to in Article 52. So let's go back: how does a person who stays in the house and suffers the intrusion to know if his safety is in danger or if only his goods are in danger? When he gets it, he's already dead. And again, in Article 55 it is also said that criminality is excluded if those who defend themselves are in a state of serious disturbance resulting from the situation of danger. But who establishes the serious disturbance? Everyone understands that he leaves a great deal of discretion to the judge. Leaving a great deal of discretion to the judge means that even in the future those who are unfortunately forced to defend themselves will have to suffer once again the painful judicial ordeal that this law instead aims to avoid him. The Brothers of Italy Group had proposed to refer, in order to exclude criminality, not to the subjective state of the aggressor, who - everyone understands it - by its very nature is very questionable and subject to the total discretion of the judge, but to the methods of the aggressor's conduct, a criterion certainly more objective and easier to demonstrate. This amendment was also rejected, such as the one which wanted to include - as I said before - the protection of its own property and not just its own safety. Again: in the law that we, however, approve today remains the reference to the need for defence and remains the reference to the topicality of danger. Well, what does the case law say? He says that, regardless of the fact that we declare that the proportion between offense and defense is always presumed, the judge, when he wants to assess the need for defence, must necessarily refer both to the relationship between the various expendable goods - that of the attacker and that of the aggressor - and to the relationship between the instruments of defense and of offense available to the two opposing parties. The result is that, even in this case, a very wide discretion is left to the judge. Again, judicial ordeal will be far from avoided. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it had to be said that home defense is always a right. You had to have this courage. But the friends of the League didn't have that courage. Until yesterday, I would have appealed to my colleagues in the League to reason on these circumstances. After yesterday, however, colleagues of the League voted to grant citizenship income to criminals, criminals and criminals, I have convinced myself that there is no longer any difference in this majority between League and Movimento 5 Stars. And I have convinced myself that, unfortunately, the way to really say that defence is a right is still very long. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u8	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I have listened carefully to Mr Balboni's speech, because I have to admit that he has made a significant technical excursus. We simply want to highlight two fundamental issues. The first question is that it is true that much confusion has been made - the President is right - when we talk about the measure on self-defense. And it was confused because, probably, it was intended to make this measure pass as an exclusive success of Minister Salvini. Let us begin to clarify, then - as Senator Ostellari said first - that it is not the Salvini law. This is a good law, certainly improved - as Senator Balboni said - and it is because it is parliamentary in nature. It came out, that is, from the synthesis of various legislative proposals, both leghistic, of Forza Italia and of the Democratic Party and it has been long drawn up in the Commission, with a series of hearings, which have led to a legislative text of a parliamentary nature. I believe that it is very thorough and that is why I want to emphasise it. Even the manifesto, a few days ago, reported that there would be a kind of party in the pump of the Minister of the Interior. I believe that it is not a matter of celebrating anything here, but of acknowledging the fact that, when Parliament is placed in a position to do its work and to do its own in-depth work, it produces balanced rules. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We have had horrible examples of things coming from the government - I think of decrees-laws, sweeps justice and so on - while the measure under consideration is important because it goes in another direction. Of course, I, like Senator Balboni, can say that we wanted something more, because we had assumed the right of defence. I am, however, more interested in the principle I mentioned earlier, namely the fact that we worked together in the Commission (which I acknowledge, as I have already said) to the President who then had the task of compiling a single text. I suggest that we avoid confusion, because we need to be clear with the citizens, with the listeners, with those who will read the parliamentary acts: we are going to vote on a text where certain principles have been established, namely that there is always a proportion between the defense and the offense when you are robbed or attacked in the store or at home. The problem of compensation for damage has been reviewed. In this respect, I am opening and closing a parenthesis: no one was talking about compensation for the damage; the issue came up because we dealt with it in the Commission. Another point that we have addressed, which is also suggested in the course of the Commission's work, is the payment of the damage by those who - for example - stole (or in any case entered the house or place of others) if they want the suspended sentence to be suspended. This is a serious principle: you are entitled to conditional suspension if you compensate for the damage. We must, however, be careful: we have not eliminated the need to ascertain the fact. It is wrong, therefore, to say that, from now on, if someone finds a dead person at home, the fact will not be ascertained simply because self-defense is assumed. This would be a deception, and we have to say it. The investigation by the judiciary will still be carried out and this was one of the points of discussion between those who wanted a slightly clearer line and those who wanted to stay on a softer line. After a year of work - in my opinion - talking about the legislation on self-defense has now almost exceeded what the government should do. I believe that there are other burdens on the shoulders of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. The representatives of the productive categories - and I am referring to Confcommercio, goldsmiths, tobacconists, Federfarma and many others - did not ask the Commission to be armed to shoot people on the street in the event of theft. 92 percent of them basically demanded a guarantee from the Forces of Order. I want to say that it is wrong to speak of going west and to say that the draft law before us introduces the far west, because during the numerous hearings held in the Commission a request for a greater presence of the State was made. It is therefore considered that, only if the State is absent, there should be the possibility of intervening personally. 93 percent of traders - I give you this figure - said clearly and roundly that they would never keep a weapon inside their shop. Entrepreneurs don't feel safe, but they don't even want to defend themselves and shoot people or a possible thief. They want, in essence, that the State - and this is the call I address to the Government and to those who have competence in this matter - does not allow citizens to be in a position to choose between the defence of their own property, their own life or that of their loved ones, and the life of those who enter their home to steal. We want greater security guaranteed by a state that operates in this respect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Having said that, 59 percent - and, I repeat, we are talking about the tobacconist, the goldsmith, the pharmacist, the trader - demand greater protection from the law enforcement authorities. Italy is not like America, where you think that maybe you buy a gun and solve all the problems; we are a country, let me say it, of decent people, that is, people who simply want to work in peace in their own shop and stay in peace in their own home. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are a country of people who want the State to do its job and therefore consider self-defense and its regulatory prediction as the extreme ratio in the worst cases that can happen. The truth is that we, however, must guarantee the certainty of safety and tranquility to those who work and work in our country. So let us say that this law is fine, but it is a first step, a step well taken for the reasons I said before, because of a parliamentary nature, but there is still a lot of work to be done. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u10	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u11	Mr President, allow me to claim as a political party and as Brothers of Italy what I would call a birthright on the historic battle of self-defense. Already in the previous legislature and in the current one, Brothers of Italy was among the first Groups to present a draft law on this matter. The point, however, is not the birthright, but the substance of the measure that we are going to approve today, a substance that has a precise regulatory framework, the institute of self-defense, ex Article 52 of the penal code, placed among the causes of justification of the crime and based on the need for self-protection of the person at the time of an absence of ordinary protection. Rule 52 on self-defense, which I would like to remind you here, reads as follows: It is not punishable by those who have committed the act for being forced by the need to defend a right and I stress right of their own or others against the present danger of an unjust offense, provided that the defence is proportionate to the offense. Here comes into play the controversial and delicate aspect of proportionality, i.e. the existence of a proportionality relationship between defence and offense referred to in Article 614 of the Criminal Code. As is well known, but it is well to remember, in Article 52, some concepts and elements related to the aforementioned article 614 of the penal code have been added by Law No 59 of 2006, that on the so-called "home or extended self-defence," with the provision of the right to self-protection in a private domicile in case of violation of the same. To describe and summarize the perimeter with which we had to confront to intervene I also want to remember what was written and carved in the contract of Government Grillo-Legista and which I quote, because we need to remember. It reads: In view of the principle of the inviolability of private property, it is envisaged to reform and extend the self-defense by eliminating the elements of interpretative uncertainty (with reference in particular to the assessment of proportionality between defence and offense) that affect the full protection of the person who has been intrudered into his or her home and workplace. What, though, is the point? It is precisely the Grillo-Legist contract to which I have necessarily referred: in fact we followed the measure in the Justice Commission, both here in the Senate and in the House, and we would have liked to see something more, a change in more. The parliamentary process on this measure has been strongly desired by the League - perhaps, I can say, immediately more than shared by the Movimento 5 Stars - and the rapporteur tells us at the beginning of the debate that there has been an important dialectical confrontation. We believe that the most sensitive matter of the measure has been worse affected by this dialectic confrontation. Of course it is worth what my colleague Mr Balboni has already said, but I want to stress this, because those who are forced to defend themselves will now be more protected (this is obvious), those who are the victims of an attack will be more protected and, above all, will be spared to the victims years and years of judicial calvary, legal expenses and compensation costs to the relatives of the robber. I know that some of the representatives of the victims' associations have been invited to this House today, i.e. those who have suffered or are still suffering from judicial calvary due to excessive manslaughter of self-defense. But obviously - as has already been noted - the opening of a judicial inquiry by those who defend themselves in their own home remains inevitable. Beyond the strictly legislative perimeter, the meshes are then narrower, it is true and we are happy with it, because we will vote in favour of this measure. But the judge's discretion in assessing proportionality between offense and defence remains wide and excessive. When I hear - as my colleague Balboni also said - of what remains of that subjective state, it cannot fail to come to my mind and in my heart that of incredible that some sentences, even recently, have returned us, talking about emotional storms in cases of feminicide, giving this evidence evidence of the facts and transforming the emotional state of storm into an extenuating. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] So let us be careful about these elements of excessive discretion when assessing proportionality. Surely we cannot share the position of all those who are now shouting at an alarm, at the far west, at the free sale of weapons. That is not true, nor do we believe that this intervention can diminish the fundamental role of the public security forces. We, as a responsible and patriotic opposition, are not only in favour, but we admit - we have admitted it in the Commission and we have admitted it here in the House, before the measure went to the House - that this measure represents a step forward; however, it is not the step that had been proposed and it is not the step that had been promised: this must be said very clearly. In short, we would have liked to see the text that was in the Justice Commission strengthened, then passed to the House, because it remains weakness and vulnerability in those margins of discretion in the assessment of proportionality. Are we sure the substance changes? Are we sure we're delivering a piece of legislation that doesn't see who's been attacked and turned into a murderer? No, we're not sure about that. Surely it is positive what is contained and what is foreseen in the text of the bill; certainly positive is the not due compensation to the aggressor, who represented the most resounding damage and mockery that jurisprudence can imagine. But I want to say and I want to emphasize with conviction, on the part of Brothers of Italy, that conceptually and I would say ontologically this provision had to and wanted to do more. I say this because I am convinced that, even in the soul of those who promoted this reform first (after us) it certainly has not been achieved what has been preached and it has not been fully achieved what may have been necessary at the beginning. In fact, we believe that it is not conceptually and ontologically declined a fundamental principle, which is the right and duty to defend when one is the victim of an aggression. If you come into my house, I don't care why you come in; you're violating my house, you're violating my family and you're representing a threat that I can't predict, the gravity of which I can't predict and that I don't have to predict, because I have the right and the duty to defend myself when I'm the victim of an assault. And in this there must not be if and there must be but. Turning to the conclusion, Mr President, I have stressed our patriotic and responsible opposition and I would like the majority to note that when, as in the case of yesterday, we are tabling amendments to help a measure, perhaps we would need more consideration for those who are committed to the good of the country without prejudice to the majority of the Government. Therefore, with regard to this text, with the perplexities that I have tried to explain to this Assembly, we will still vote in favour, considering it as a step forward, but not as promised, because for Brothers of Italy the defense is always legitimate, it is a principle, it is a right and this law, useful, good, positive, compiling in some aspects, does not make the defense always legitimate. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u12	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u13	Mr President, I would first like to thank Senator Emanuele Pellegrini (who sits next to me) and Senator Candura for the work they have done in the Commission, as well as Senator Bishops for their contribution to this speech. I would also like to dedicate a thought to the people who have experienced the need to defend themselves first from unjust aggression and then from an unjust trial. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I think of the tobacconist Franco Birolo, the gas station Graziano Stacchio, the jeweler Robertino Zancan, Franco Sicignano and the memory of Ermes Mattielli, who died of heartbreak following the trial at his expense. Never again is the state ambiguous, but always be on the right side [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The text has been the subject of foolish criticism; I have read many of them, I report one for all. The Democratic Party proposed to specify that in order to be legitimated for the defense, the attacker must use weapons and not only threaten to use them. If there wasn't to cry, it would be funny, but I wonder how you can say things like that. Following this logic, one who finds himself an attacker in the house could defend himself only after receiving three or four gunshots, but I do not know that the dead are able to defend themselves. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The truth is that the text is balanced and criticism from the right and left testify to it. Self-defense always exists when the sacredness of the family home is violated, a place where each of us has the right to feel safe. Self-defense always exists when one must reject an intrusion, when a serious disturbance in the attack is generated. No more conditional on attackers who do not pay compensation for the damage before; more serious penalties for those who attack the sacredness of the family, but above all no more absurd civil trials against the victims who, after having had to defend themselves, must also face a civil process of compensation for the damage. The other significant introduction is that of legal aid, not already for the accused, but finally for the victims of these attacks. I think that this rule strongly desired by the majority of Italians is a rule of common sense. I conclude with the words of a giant of the last century, St. John Paul II, who said that self-defense can be not only a right, but a serious duty for those who are responsible for the life of others, the common good, the family and the civil community. Today we have fulfilled this prophecy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Groups and Senator Di Marzio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u14	Senator Stancanelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u15	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, at first reading in the Senate, the Brothers of Italy Group voted in favour of the draft law under discussion, although so many amendments that we had tabled in the Commission and in the House were not adopted. We hoped that the transition to the Chamber would do us justice, in order to adapt this provision to the requirements that we represented with the bill that had as the first signatory La Russa, signed by all members of the Group to the Senate: unfortunately this did not happen. This third reading is characterized only by the financial provision relating to legal aid. We will vote in favour, because we know that this is a step forward, but it is a step forward, as they have clearly illustrated, also from the legal point of view, both Mr Balboni and Mrs Rauti, who does not satisfy us for the objective we wanted to achieve. There are, in fact, two aspects of the rule that we will shortly approve of which put us in the difficulty of giving way to what the public asks of us. When we refer to the excessive discretion of the judge, we do not do so because we believe that there should be no control of legitimacy over the behaviour of those who defend themselves at home; we support it because we believe that the conceptual meaning of defending themselves at home is different and therefore not to have to demonstrate the serious disturbance or proportionality. It is a legal presumption that we, with our bill, wanted it to enter the Italian legal order, in order to avoid what Senator Balboni rightly pointed out: the judicial ordeal of those who must prove that their defence has been proportional. That is why we are voting in favour, but we still support a difficulty in bringing a basic concept into our system: those who defend themselves because they are attacked at home cannot assess, at the time of the offense, whether or not their defence is proportionate to the action of those who stealthily enter their home. There is a second point that we want to highlight. Not only the left, but also many intellectuals in Italy have indicated this as the provision that will certainly open the Italian society to the far west: never what has been more lying than this. This bill, in fact, does not change the rules on the use and control of weapons in Italy; as Senator Rauti has said, there is no such legislation as there is in Italy as there is in many other parts of the world (it is often referred to the United States of America) and there is no change. Italy is one of the nations with more restrictions, even from the administrative point of view, in the use of weapons. So there is no such danger. Among other things, as Senator Modena very well recalled, in the hearings in the Justice Commission in the Senate we heard so many representatives of the business and trade world say that 93% of entrepreneurs do not want to use arms. This rule, therefore, serves only those who have the capacity and the will to defend themselves. That is why Brothers of Italy expected more but, as has been said widely and as we repeat here, we will vote with conviction in favour of the bill under consideration, as we did at first reading in the Senate and as we did in the House. We would have preferred more, but we hope that, as with the 2006 reform, when he shouted at the scandal but then, in fact, it was found that the reform brought some novelty in the possibility of defending himself, even this rule can enter into the heart of Italian society, waiting to be able to modify it further, for the benefit of those who are offended at home and want to defend themselves. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u17	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we too will vote in favour of this bill amending the rules on self-defence and will do so for a cultural approach which I believe I can say belongs to us for a primacy in a battle, the one on self-defense, which is in order to safeguard the security of the Italian people. The ratio of this rule is not to make more dead and it is not to take away the life of someone, because when you are attacked in your own home there is no animus necandi and there is no will to offend, but there is simply the will to defend itself. The rule therefore goes in the direction, of course, of making fewer deaths, and that is also our wish. Security is at the center of this norm and not only of some categories that are certainly the most barred, but the safety of all: the safety of even those who cannot afford to have an alarm in the house or to have the private police that controls them; the safety of those who, President, live in conditions of discomfort and perhaps must defend a minimum of heritage that has collected with enormous difficulties, through the work, the fatigue and the sweat of their forehead. That is why we believe that the measure we are examining should be approved. This is in people's DNA, and it hasn't been since today, but it's always been. We even find it in the Digest: even at one time Latin wisdom claimed that " vim repulse you licet". There is a justification for violence: violence can legitimately be responded to by violence in a positive way. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure, in view of another fact. We politicians must face up to the reality of things: we have 600,000 illegal immigrants; certainly they will not and cannot all be criminals, but we are aware that a large part of them are delinquents. We don't just say that, but the newspaper reports it, the judicial statistics say it and the prosecutors of the Republic say it. I would like to recall what the Attorney General of the Republic of Bologna said at the Court of Appeal, Ignazio De Francisci, in the latest report of 2018: Italy has not only become an importing country of foreign prisoners, who prefer our system to that of their country, but will soon become a sort of criminal paradise for Romanian fugitives and all other Eastern countries. It often happens that the Romanian arrested person, when executing a European arrest warrant, is released, either because Romania does not respond to requests for information about the state of its prisons, or even takes time. We have in Italy gangs of heinous delinquents who come from the East who consume inexhaustible violence, often against the elderly, young people and those who are in a state of handicapped defense. We have an obligation and a legal duty to intervene heavily with a rule that can really give these people the opportunity to defend themselves courageously in their homes. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Ours is also an appeal to courage to get out of this shameful and stagnant situation to which we have been accustomed for far too long certain sentences, which we could call rainbow or even other terms, which have put the same order in difficulty. These are creative judgments, in which the exception is preserved. Remember, in fact, that in these dramatic situations - which, in fact, are not the rule - the victim is the aggressor. According to the rule, the aggressor is the one who commits violence. When you are inside your home, which, as someone has also mentioned in this House, should be a sacred place, the place where our affections are guarded and especially where we want to find our tranquillity, serenity, peace, which we want to protect with great strength, defend all this belief is a legitimate act and of justice. Therefore, the ratio of this rule is not only political or judicial. The reasons apply to the culture of the Italian people, and we defend life and property in this situation: this is our goal. When you are attacked inside your home, in the shops or in our activities - also in this case a Latin broccoli rescues: bis dat here I quote dat, or whoever strikes first hits twice - we are hit twice, we are hit twice. I therefore believe that it is right and proper to give the opportunity to avoid, in many cases, the gratuitous court that drags the defendant who has defended himself for too many years before the courts. This must be our approach. That is why the rule basically does nothing - and it is important - but reverses the so-called burden of proof. Today in courtrooms it is up to us to prove that we have been attacked. Well, let us reverse this system; let us ensure that it is those who attacked us - or possibly the prosecutor of the Republic - who have to prove that there is some sort of responsibility. When customers come, even in my office, on some occasions they are people who find themselves having to respond to excessive manslaughter in self-defense or even murder. I wonder what consoling words can be addressed to them, who have merely defended themselves. In so many cases it is said that the harsh voice of the magistrate is better than that of the gentle and consolation of the priest. In many cases one defends oneself against truly dramatic situations. We believe that in a rule of law those who are attacked must first be preserved. First of all, we come out of the lies that are said in some cases, as in this case: the process will still be opened; it does not close but opens in case of injury or a murder. These are particularly delicate and dramatic situations, but let's also remember that in Italy the number of those holding the weapons is extremely small: there are very few, and there are very few people who know how to use them. I'd be superstitious if I thought it was the same weapons that are dangerous and not the hands of those who hold them. So the final question is this: are we convinced that our order is really able to defend each one of us? I do not think so, unfortunately, because it is obvious; it is before everyone's eyes. If this is not the case, we must give our associates, the Italians, the opportunity to defend themselves against aggressions within their homes. And when we see someone entering our homes, falling down like the befana down the chimney, or climbing like acrobats on the walls, breaking through the doors and using violence, we must remind them that there may also be another alternative. There are professions that have risks; if I am an entrepreneur I can fail; if I am a surgeon and forget the scalpel in someone's belly, I certainly risk an action for compensation and the opening of criminal proceedings. If I'm a convict, an apartment rat or a robber, I need to know that, from now on, there will be a risk for my safety, too, and I need to know that it has become a trade at risk. Ours is an invitation to the courage addressed to the Italian people so that we can defend ourselves in the dramatic situations that I have mentioned and not find an overly eyeed and attentive judiciary only to the interests of the aggressors and not of the aggressor. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u18	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u19	Mr President, as my colleague, Mrs Modena, has already pointed out, the measure we are considering is born under a good star, because in a sense it contains more than one direction than Parliament and is a parliamentary initiative. If it had been an initiative of the Government - or at least part of it - there would have been some concern. That is not what we would have wanted. In fact, in its incipit, in a clear and unambiguous way, the diction "right of defense" comes out of this provision, while from this provision will come out a sort of modified criminal, almost biphasic, which provides for a first paragraph, which in fact maintains Article 52 of the Criminal Code unchanged, with the prerequisites for the exercise of the criminal, that is, of the non punishableity of the fact, and, then, the second, third and fourth paragraph that modify the scope of the defense in the context of the domicile or places that are comparable to it or to the private dwelling. It is therefore not a right of defence, but a home defense; this is the compromise and the maximum that the League has managed to obtain, to "tear" in order to arrive - "not to the theft with tear" - at this measure so requested by Vice President Salvini. The positive aspects have already been highlighted. First of all, those who defend themselves after years of trial and see recognition of the legitimacy of their actions will not have to pay the costs of justice, pursuant to Article 115-a, inserted after Article 115 of the single text of the laws and regulations on the expenses of justice, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic 30 May 2002, n. 115. This is a legitimate measure, but we forgot to include the first paragraph of Article 52. That is, we allow the State's expenses only for self-defense, but not for self-defense as such. We could have seen this better. The principle is given, once again, by the philosophy that inspires the provision. I would remind you that the Nordio Committee which has dealt with the reform of the penal code started from a completely different paradigm, namely that the so-called liberal conception presupposes that the state is the derivation of the pactum sufferedis of the citizens, who give the state the recognition of its right and receive in return protection. To have this, they partially sacrifice the right to freedom, property and individual rights. For this reason, we insisted and demanded that the measure sanction the right of defence, which had with it a clear consequence: those who act in the right of defence, are not punishable by an anti-juridical fact, but guilty, because that fact itself does not exist and does not constitute a crime. Hence the resulting legal uncertainty, with respect to the civilistic reflections highlighted also in this morning's speeches, because clearly, within the framework of Article 52, the changes we have made to Article 2044 of the Civil Code are partial. It remains the duty of the so-called compensation, i.e. compensation, which will be or would be charged to the person who acts in a state of innocence, criminalised, not punishable in criminal terms, but punishable under civil law. The rapporteur, Mr Ostellari, is well aware of this, because in the Forza Italia Commission it was very clear on this point, with specific amendments. There is a discrasia in this, as non-criminal punishment remains and residual from the point of view of the civilistic consequences of the effects. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Dal Mas. BY MAS (FI-BP). Of course, Mr President, thank you. My colleagues have already said this: Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure, even if it is not what we would have wanted, because it should have explained a different concept: defence is not a criminal, but a right. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u20	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really believed that today there were no differences and distinctions on this measure, convinced that part of the policy - especially the left - had abandoned its ideological attitude when it comes to security and was able to understand what Italian citizens need and what they want, which we know very well. It is enough to go around the streets of our suburbs and in all neighborhoods, in fact, to understand that they want to defend themselves as a right and that defence is always legitimate. I also believe that this bill had less courage than the words that everyone - from the Brothers of Italy to the League, to Forza Italia - had said in the election campaign. Without prejudice to the fact that this law is a step forward from the previous one and that Brothers of Italy absolutely agree, we expected more courage from the friends of the League, because there are things that could have been different, such as the issue of emotional disturbance, that still exists. It is very difficult, in fact, to understand the emotional disturbance after the time of action, because we know... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u22	Forgive me for a moment, Senator Garnero Santanchè: the bustle has exceeded the level of guard, so I would ask you to reduce the volume a lot or leave the Chamber to speak, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u23	Thank you, you can continue. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Too bad for those who, seeing these discussions, perceive the disinterest of many colleagues, because here we are talking about a topic straight for the safety of Italians, that is to defend themselves in their homes and companies. In taking up the speech suspended from the interruption, Mr President, we would have liked even more courage from the friends of the League, because the issue of emotional disturbance remains. I find it very difficult to have the thermometer of the emotional disturbance of an individual after he has committed an action, because the magistrate will not discuss it immediately. If someone came into our homes tonight, not to come for tea with pastries, I think that our adrenaline and emotional disturbance would be at a very high level, because the fear and fear that something might happen to our loved ones would be at its maximum and would reach absolute peaks. Having to judge this later seems to me to be a real shortcoming of this measure which will now become a law of the State. I believe that the principle of self-defence must be a right, because we should all be able to defend our loved ones and our things at any time, if we are threatened. With this law this will not be possible yet and - I repeat - this is a very important gap. I also believe that, as I said at the beginning of my speech, Italian citizens... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I find it very difficult to speak in this way. I am not saying that there should be interest, but at least education on the part of some colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u24	You're absolutely right, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u25	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). We want to tell others what they have to do, but then if that's the example, I think it's bad. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, I don't want to be forced to call you back individually. Please, Senator, continue. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Those who are not interested can go to the buvette to have a nice coffee, allowing those who intervene to speak in normal conditions. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u26	Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u27	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, I would like to take up my speech again. We all know what Italian citizens want. The polls tell us - but just go around the streets of our cities to understand it - that fear is increasing; indeed we are running a danger because we are going from fear to hostility. Italians become hostile, because they don't feel safe in their homes. So this law certainly represents a step forward. It will give greater security to Italian citizens in their homes, avoiding them having to spend years and years in the Italian courts. How many lives have been ruined in this way in the last period? We have seen innocents passing by as criminals and executioners - not victims - in many situations. This law will end. We lacked the courage and the law we wanted, without reference to the emotional disturbance and a discretion of the magistrates that is still too wide for us. Nevertheless, we believe that this measure certainly has the support of the majority of Italian citizens. It is a law that changes, in substance and in depth, what it was before and that will allow many people who will defend themselves in their homes not to have to spend years and years through lawyers, judges and courts. It is a law that no longer contemplates compensation, because what has outraged the Italians very much was not only the damage, but also the mockery of having to pay those who had entered our homes with force and violence to hurt and steal. All of this will no longer exist, and that is why we are in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Centro di Formazione Vocationale "ENGIM Piemonte - S.L. Murialdo in Pinerolo, in the province of Turin, and the students of the Istituto Statale (Vittorio Gassman) in Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u29	Mr President, gentlemen of the government (distracted), fellow senators, I think we have missed another opportunity. We are, as has already happened yesterday, taking back a measure which would have deserved, even at first reading in the House, much more attention and not simply an adjustment of the economic situation relating to the past year. He deserved more attention, he deserved adjustments, he should have brought us back to the beehive of legality and legitimacy, because objectively we cannot share what has been said in the interventions that preceded me, because a system is being overturned. Today we have finally had the courage to speak - the rapporteur himself has done so - of the threat that would arise from the introduction of certain people into other homes against the will of the owner and that is what we have been holding back to say a thousand times during the debate - which, moreover, was often a soliloquy - in the Commission, a debate that has produced practically nothing, because by now we are going on with an attack on parliamentaryism which is now evident and before everyone's eyes. It is an attack which does not allow us to properly confront ourselves. It does not allow us, in the context of the work of the Commission and the House, to have a close confrontation, to try to understand the positions of the minority as well. The minority's positions have, moreover, been correctly reported, because they actually reflect the content of the hearings that have been held. This morning, however, I heard someone say that this measure has accepted the indications that audit subjects had received. Well, I'm on average distracted, but frankly I don't get to be distracted to this point, because the audit people said exactly the opposite. Only one of the auditees agreed with the content of this measure, while all the others (magistrates and lawyers) said they were against the change of a system that was objectively correct and that perhaps it would need some adjustment in the concept of excessive self-defense. All the auditees said this and in fact we ourselves had proposed a change to the concept of excessive manslaughter of self-defense and we thought that with that it could be closed. This was not the case, because we wanted to make, even once, a measure which is clearly an electoral spot; according to some, it responds, as has been said a while ago, to the common feeling, while also the so-called sensitive subjects, during the hearings, have all said that it was not appropriate to allow the use of weapons. They pointed out that those sensitive subjects who find themselves being attacked, although armed, have objective difficulties to shoot at a human being; they said that they were not able to face the assault of those who instead arrive aware of the risk they run and therefore ready also for the use of weapons. However, no one has asked to be authorized, because our system - which, lively, is a guarantee system that really protects citizens - provided and so far provides for the criterion of proportionality between offense and defence. This proportionality criterion today is in fact thrown into the nettles and introduces the possibility of always reacting against anyone who enters, even by mistake (we have said it a thousand times in the course of the discussion), into the home of others. Examples have been given, I have made them and made them much better than I did Senator Grasso, who said that in this way we are authorising to shoot even against the neighbor who enters the garden to collect the ball that has lost the child or against the son who goes out, maybe secretly, at night and forgets the keys at home and enters the window: you allow yourself to kill in these conditions for a mere mistake. Initially, even, we had arrived at the aberration that even the judge's assessment was not possible: it is self-defense and remains self-defense. Then, fortunately, we were aware - also because of the indications received from audit staff, who said that the judge's control is necessary to determine whether or not self-defense actually exists, because otherwise we would run the risk of even covering up the voluntary murders - that this could not be achieved. We are simply trying to make yet another electoral ad with the force of numbers. To these numbers we must bend, of course, but our voice we have the duty to make it feel, in defense of democratic principles that until now have inspired the judicial activity of this country: those principles of justice that are inherent in our system. Unfortunately, however, all the amendments we have tabled have been rejected. However, I would also like to stress another point, also concerning the hearings. The Minister, in one of his fleeting apparitions, exactly when he came to make the annual report on the state of justice, had said that all his action had always been concerted with the protagonists, that is, with the administrative staff, with the magistrates and with the lawyers, with whom he boasted to have an assiduous and continuous confrontation. I don't doubt the Minister's confrontation with these people. Too bad he doesn't listen to them. Too bad it goes on with measures that are probably drawn up by others too. Too bad he doesn't realize that the judiciary and the lawyer are strongly opposed to this measure. This has been said very clearly. Check the outcome of the hearings and you will be aware of that. [[Applause from the PD Group]] During those hearings, it was made very clear that the system is as good as it is. I repeat, the only thing that could be put in hand was the excess manslaughter in self-defense. No, you don't. Today, with a commercial, which is simply and once again a benevolent captatio and a search for votes, it was said: "No, from now on, if anyone offends you, don't worry, you can defend yourself, you can shoot." It has also been said this morning in this House. We're at legal aberration. Now, this is not the first measure in which the outcome of the hearings is regularly ignored; sometimes we also have to think that they are totally useless, because now we have taken this abbrivo: nothing is being discussed, the measures of the government arrive, they are "discodiled" and cannot be changed. This happens regularly. The debate is most often mortified and, let me say this, this is clearly an attack on the parliamentary system, which has, to date, been one of the cornerstones of our democratic system. You want to appear as Saviors of the Homeland and sometimes you wear the uniform to say that you want to be guarantors of the right justice, but, in fact, all this is just appearance. There is the will to impose one's own ideas, which all too often clearly violate the basic principles of the democratic system, the basic principles of democracy, the basic principles of equality, the basic principles of the right to life, in this specific case, all concepts enshrined in a very clear way in our Constitution. But it is also clear that there is a total disinterest, so much so that yesterday too, to prove what I have just said (i.e. that our system with the electoral ads is going to be blessed), it has once again emerged that the prisons are overcrowded. Be careful: they are overcrowded not because the arrests have increased, but because they are attacking, as I said, that system founded on the freedom of the individual, founded on the recognition of the dignity of man, dignity that is also of those who are imprisoned for having mistaken the paths of life. We are returning to the systems of many years ago, unfortunately well known. And in the near future, as we had expected a little less than a year ago, infringement proceedings will begin again. The infringement proceedings against Italy will be opened for so many measures that we are taking, and that are clearly contrary to the basic principles, even those dictated by Europe. You are destroying a system that - lively God - had led this country to be envious of the justice system, which allowed us to write "Justice" with the capital G, while you, by now, are reducing it to a word written in a tiny almost unreadable. Everything, in fact, is based on the imposition by a Government that tends to limit the rights of the individual and, in this case, is arming people who, objectively, want to defend themselves, who want to take advantage of the abdication by the State from its role. This measure is in fact the clear recognition of the inability of the State - and we do not agree - to defend the citizens and then make someone say: I'll get you to defend yourself. You can do it yourself. We are, instead, for the defence of the State. We believe that the state must take care of the defence of the citizen and not promote self-defense, which will certainly, as I said, lead to the results of which I have spoken. When the dead, the victims of unjustified attacks, begin to see themselves, in the cases first highlighted in which they will be allowed to shoot at these people from today, then we will begin to say that perhaps we have done something wrong and perhaps it will be appropriate to go back. We - remember - told you. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u30	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, for many years, for a long time, the country and its citizens have been asking for a response in terms of justice and security: in terms of justice in order to avoid unfair trials against those who had been the victims of particular criminal acts; in terms of security in order to receive immediate protection, of their lives, of their safety and that of their loved ones, of their property and also of the workplace. Unfortunately for a long time this question has been unheard. Politics has done nothing - and the institutions too - and where it has listened it has done some harm because perhaps, in order to protect their loved ones and their place of work, a citizen needed the metro to check if the thief was an inch farther or farther than the door, or the clock to see how many minutes were missing at sunset and in the meantime the damage would be done. Today we have a response that, as our rapporteur said, is balanced, an answer that comes out of parliamentary bodies and that coincides with the need for common sense that emerges from the country. I would like to speak quickly of three truths, or three lies depending on the point of view. First of all, the law that will be passed will not arm the Italians, will not open to the far west: those who say this or do not know the text or lie knowing to lie. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This law, in fact, has nothing to do with arms discipline. Secondly, it is not true that this law will guarantee regardless of the impunity of those who will be forced to defend their property, their own person or loved ones because prosecution, being mandatory, will be initiated. The investigation will be initiated but probably, if the subject has acted in a state of self-defense, such investigations will be promptly archived and therefore there will be no Calvary for those who have already suffered a damage because this law sets certain and clear rules. Thirdly, this law will not replace citizens with the state. It is a law that creates a just symbiosis between institutions and citizens. Unfortunately, the state cannot be everywhere, it cannot be everywhere in a fast way and there is the need, in so many circumstances, for a citizen, in the immediacy of a fact, to be able to defend what is most dear to the world. Mr Pillon has already anticipated what this law will say. This law says that never again will a victim be treated as a executioner. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Never again who protects his person and loved ones will be treated by criminals and, again, never again who defends his property, his job and his activity will be forced to be persecuted by his own state. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a just law that on the level of the effects, as happened in its genesis, will allow to have a fair balance between the protection of the State - which the current Government and the current majority have already increased with norms, strengthening also the recruitment in the police - and the need of those who as a citizen, as an entrepreneur or as a worker in their own home or in their own workplace cannot wait for a state intervention, albeit fast and effective, to ensure protection and absolute security. What wins with this law? Common sense wins. This is not the law of the leghists, nor that of the pentastellates: it is the law that the Italians wanted, demonstrating the fact that the current majority and the current Government are in perfect harmony with the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all I would like to greet Mr Bongiorno, whom I thank for his contribution on legitimate defence. I do not need to announce our vote in favour of this measure: it is enough to claim its paternity by Forza Italia. During the previous parliamentary term, our proposal was discussed in the House of Deputies and, at the beginning of the current parliamentary term, I proceeded to retable it in the same terms, since we did not have the majority. I must say, however, that, in the meantime, there had been a long discussion within Forza Italia, which had led us to go beyond our original proposal for a law. As far as I am concerned, I personally contributed to the change of mind of Minister Bongiorno, with whom I had continued, albeit from afar, a cultural confrontation started in the sixteenth legislature. This is how we came to a text in which we were talking about the right of defence, while today we are going to vote on a measure in which we do not recognize the right of defence, but we maintain self-defense as a criminal of the criminal system, without much newness compared to Article 52 of the penal code. It is true that the idea, which was already clear in the previous text of Article 52, with the addition of the adverb "always" is strengthened, but this will not deprive the judge of the possibility and the possibility to interpret the rule and to assess the concrete situation that will arise to him, in order to criminalize the specific case with respect to the case provided for in the norm and to determine whether or not the conviction is to be found. What, then, is the novelty of this legislation? It refers to Article 55 of the Penal Code, i.e. the provision of a lawful excess of manslaughter. It is as if I said that, in cases where the limits of excess manslaughter are exceeded, it is justified and the one who reacted under those conditions cannot be punished. If that's the logic, you have to wonder what this is all about. In the text we presented it was written that the fear and excitement of the moment that caused the victim to react to the attack had to be taken into account. Professor Caruso, during the hearings held during the examination in the Commission, suggested using the term'sturbation', starting from that indication of our text, and essentially to formulate Article 55, paragraph 2, as a hypothesis of licit negligence. However, he writes the same Professor Caruso (as any scholar of the law would do, but also any good university who attends the faculty of jurisprudence), this is a formidable fact: if it is lawful, there can be no criminal liability, but there can be no civil liability either, because to a lawful behavior cannot achieve a charge of liability. And here I have to say that the rapporteur, Mr Ostellari, was good, but then he fell into the trap, letting himself be involved in the affair that characterizes the relations between the two forces of majority in this legislature, introducing compensation. Dear Pillon, there will be a civil trial, because it is the civil judge who will have to establish compensation. For whom? Of the damaged, says the article. Someone - I repeat - had understood that the damaged was the one who had suffered the intrusion into the house. No! The injured here is the aggressor, he is the one who entered the house at nighttime and who was wounded or killed by a reaction of the one who was in that house; in that case it is the compensation. There is therefore a long civil process, which replaces the time of the criminal trial. I do not want to refer to my experience, but I turn to Minister Bongiorno and his long experience: the criminal trial often ended in the phase of preliminary investigations with the request for archiving, while with the civil trial you will have to wait twenty years to be sure of how much the poor Christ who suffered the aggression at home will have to pay. Our vote in favour is due to the fact that this is a step forward in this area. However, the need for a concept to take over remains firm. Today we are talking about legitimate defense, but tomorrow we will talk about all mitigating rights; a new philosophy of interpretation of criminal law is needed and it is necessary to sanction conduct that is contrary to constitutional principles. I hope that there is this will, because we are making many laws, with the intention that we must always re-modulate and reconfirm them. I am surprised and sorry that Mr Salvini is not here, because he had guaranteed his presence in this sitting (but I know very well that he is very attentive and can still be told what I am saying). I rely on his ability, not to change his mind, but to modulate the state's intervention in relation to the needs and interpretations that arise from the laws; in this case, too, he could act as he did recently and take into account the aspects that should still be improved to ensure an effective impact on the perception of safety. Beware that this rule does not affect security; the need for security in our country must be resolved with some norms that the Minister of the Interior will have to carry, in order to guarantee that security to which citizens are entitled. This rule affects the perception of safety, certainly a relative and secondary aspect to safety in cities and countries, the possibility for women to go out at any time of night and day without being attacked on the street or raped, as is happening in recent times. The Minister of the Interior will do what he has to do with this situation. But with regard to this law, precisely because it is a regulation dating back to the time when we were a majority together, when there was real attention to the problems of the people (as opposed to what is happening today with the measures made by the current majority), it would be necessary to identify a possibility of correction in the terms I have outlined, in order to make the same more consistent with the goals that are to be achieved. Otherwise, a few years from now, we will find ourselves complaining about those who have had to undergo a long civil trial, who will say that they are exposed to further consequences. Beware, it is true that you will have free defense in the criminal trial, but not in the civil one, so you will have a further consequence [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the draft law that we are about to adopt today is one of those that has a direct impact on the perception of our citizens. Unfortunately, all of us in this House can say that we have heard of a serious incident that has happened near us, but I would like to point out that in my opinion the political value of the draft law in question goes far beyond what has been described so far, because to think about it well the facts that fall under these circumstances are often attributable to certain situations of violence, sometimes of social exclusion, sometimes to people with a strong tendency to crime, very often also to situations linked to problems of illegality or sometimes of lack of return or similar issues. I would like to say something very important in my opinion, namely that on 4 March 2018 Italians chose a direction to go and made a precise choice, but it is also true that all these citizens over time have been taken away from the natural tolerance typical of the Italian people. To us Italians has been taken away much of that culture of reception, making it believe that it is the prerogative of only a political force. I want to explain myself better, because in my opinion this is a very important concept. We must start to wonder how the policies of the absolutely disastrous reception at national, regional and local level, of previous governments, and of course of the Democratic Party in particular, have led the vast majority of Italians to no longer be able to afford a policy of natural reception, sustainable and properly managed. They were forced to deal with these facts in a dramatic and emergent manner, precisely because of the democratic party's slanderous policies. I would like to make it clear that even in this majority, whatever it may be said, it is possible to find an attitude of natural tolerance and attention to certain problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Bergesio]] In this sense the disastrous policy of the Democratic Party in welcoming and social integration has completely distorted the perception of the communities of Italian citizens, who have been brought to exasperation by the inability of the ruling class of the Democratic Party; therefore I believe it is right for this majority and of course for the Italians to claim a natural, sustainable and healthy reception policy, made on numbers and subjects that fall within a perimeter of legality and sustainability. This is a bill much awaited by our entire country and all our local communities. I say this rightly for a very precise reason, because in the city where I live today, Terni, at least three of the most heinous crimes in the Republican history of Umbria have been committed. And unfortunately, not least, in the past few weeks, in my hometown, Spoleto, there has been another serious episode of domestic violence, perpetrated by criminals following a break-in. These are just examples, but each of us could make the same speech. I'm talking, gentlemen, about murders committed on the doorstep: a couple of elderly people massacred on their own bed; a young thirty-year-old man literally kills at the exit of a public place. It is not only in the face of these facts, but it is also thinking of our elderly parents alone at home, or maybe of ourselves and our children or of our friends, relatives or neighbors, that we can say that finally it is time to consider the defense within the walls of our home or business or business activities always legitimate, contrary to what intellectuals who have destroyed our country (the famous communists with the Rolex) think. [[Applause from Senator De Vecchis]] , i.e. that it is legitimate to enter into a private property without being able to in any way affect the health, the psyche and the state of mind of a person. I want to repeat this concept contrary to what the intellectuals who have destroyed our country think, who believe it is legitimate to enter into a private property, without which this can in any way affect the health, the psyche and the state of mind of a person. It is clear that for those of us who have defined the "ZTL politicians" who do not attend the suburbs, it is difficult to really understand what integration in degradation means: it is very easy to integrate into your well-off neighborhoods, it is very difficult to do it in the outskirts of our cities. From today it will finally be possible to defend itself without the worry of having to defend itself from accusations of illegitimate defense. At last criminality in the civil court also fails, because an acquittal in the criminal court will not necessarily correspond to the compensation of the damage deriving from the fact. I therefore conclude my speech by strongly confirming my support for this initiative by the Government of Change. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u36	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education (Falcone-Righi) from Corsico in the province of Milan, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u37	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u38	Mr President, I am speaking in a brief reply, as I have also been reminded in the speech of Senator Caliendo, who knows well, because we have worked together on this text in the Commission and because we have spoken on this subject several times, which is not true what he says, so I disagree with him. We have absolutely not fallen into any trap, even on this marginal form of compensation: we have shared it with our majority and have incorporated it into this text. We chose to make the excess manslaughter not punishable and not, as you say, lawful. The excess manslaughter today is punished criminally and results in compensation for the damage; from tomorrow the excess manslaughter will no longer be punished by the State and will no longer give any power to the subject who attacks to make claims for compensation for the damage. That is clear in the text. The interventions carried out were aimed not only, of course, at self-defense, but also at excessive manslaughter and many other topics (the articles are nine and there are many topics that are part of this reform). It is not true what the PD says when it says that the principle of proportionality has in fact been removed. The proportionality of fact exists, but within a home, of certain places, of a certain frame, as Senator Cucca well knows, the proportion is always assumed to exist, of course if one defends himself against an aggression of that type. We have not legitimised, as stated in other interventions, any misuse of arms: this has never been said and we do not talk about this in the text of the decree-law. Senator Cucca closed his speech, hoping that someone in this House would not have to remember that someone had told him. Senator Cucca, I remember that already in 2006 someone had said so, as some newspaper articles testify. I would like to quote a passage from the Unit and dated 25 January 2006: They vote for a legal monster: you can shoot to defend yourself or your own property at home as on the street. These are the same things that are said today, in a climate that I think you may have caused and in an attempt to demolish a law that is instead a reform felt by our people. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u39	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u40	Mr President, I have listened to everyone and will try to respond in general. What is the point of this reform? It aims to broaden the application of self-defence, to tighten sanctions for crimes of theft, trespassing and robbery and to introduce a presumption of self-defense at home. There are qualifying points in the bill. To sum up, we can say that it always acts in a state of self-defense who is having to respond to a violent intrusion, in his home or in the workplace, carried out with weapons or other offensive means. Those who are attacked, in fact, must be aware that they can react to the attack without having to fear an exhausting judicial ordeal on their own. There is therefore no possibility that the new rule could be mistaken for a license to kill, as someone deliberately misjudged. On the contrary, we eliminate ex ante any doubts about the perimeter of the conduct judged not punishable. The protection of the person who reacts to defend himself is therefore extended, while the discretion available to the judicial authority to assess the legality of the defence act is reduced. The excess manslaughter remains, but the concept of serious disturbance determined by the current danger is also introduced. In line with these provisions of the rule, those who have defended themselves in accordance with the provisions of the law will not have to pay any compensation if it has caused damage to those who attacked him. Finally, legal aid: those who have legitimately defended themselves from a violent attack will be entitled, during the next criminal proceedings, to legal aid at the expense of the State. It is therefore one of a reform of common sense, a step forward in the civilization of law because it aims to prevent the repetition of serious injustices. In fact, it is not conceivable that those who legitimately defend themselves against a violent attack become victims twice, of the criminal and then of the State. Not partisan reform, but common sense and justice. A rule for everyone. Those who are attacked must be able to defend themselves, aware that they will not be the victim, as well as the attack, of long and expensive judicial paths, sometimes real persecutions with uncertain results because they are linked to too much discretion. Those who attack and defend themselves are not on the same level: on the one hand there are those who delinque, aware of taking risks, on the other honest people who oppose the criminal who breaks into their homes to rob, attack, beat or, worse still, rape. We are on the side of the attacker who legitimately defends himself. There is no doubt that the majority of Italians are convinced that, in recent years, a prejudice has prevailed in judging many of these cases, all to the detriment of the aggressor and to the protection of the aggressor. Restoring legal certainty and fair and fair judgment is our goal. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Ostellari, Mr Molteni, Mr Bongiorno, Mr Salvini and Mr Bonafede for their valuable contributions and for their commitment with the Italians and today respected. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u41	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u44	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr. President,... [[Brusio.]] If that were possible, I would like to intervene in a dignified condition.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u45	Colleagues, I would ask you to remain, if not in silence, at least at a very low level of conversation with reference to the volume. Please, Senator Laforgia.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u46	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to start by picking up the provocation - if you will, the record - that I have just heard from Senator Lucidi, who has spoken in general debate, because he has said something that I basically agree with. According to Mr Lucidi's thesis, in this strange country, in the public debate, in the political debate, it happens that a mechanism is set in motion for which there seems to be themes - in fact it is often so - the left's prerogative. Lucidi referred to the issue of immigration, except then, in some passages, to have treated that issue in a way different from what was expected. In the last parliamentary term, for example, I was one of those who opposed certain choices on this issue. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u47	Today it is really very tiring.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u48	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Thank you, President. I would like to say that it also applies to the right. In this strangeness - which I would like to start to heal - it seems that the theme of security belongs to that other political field, precisely what I personally feel very distant, even opposed to me, namely the right. It is the right that deals with security, and I must say that among the things to be healed there is also a delay, as far as we are concerned, in dealing with a delicate issue that often has to do with the weakest subjects. It is the most fragile subjects that need to be given more security, and on this there is a long work to be done. The issue, Mr President, is whether the right is dealing exactly with this or, for the umpteenth time, is putting in place a major propaganda operation. I say this to my colleagues in this House through you. I would like to say something that is not the case: self-defence already exists and is provided for in our legal system, in the penal code, which, in Rule 52 - which has been mentioned several times - contains an unequivocal statement on the interpretation. In fact, it reads: It is not punishable by those who committed the fact that they were forced to defend a right of their own or others against the present danger of an unjust offense, provided that the defence is proportionate to the offense. We are therefore talking about the danger of an offense and the order already provides for the possibility of defending oneself in a situation in which the subject feels threatened or has the perception of feeling threatened by this danger. Moreover, the latest legislative innovation, Law No 59 of 2006, explicitly speaks of the defense of one's own or others' safety, adding the defence of one's own or others' property, when there is no existence and there is a danger of aggression. We are faced with the fact that, while our order is very clear on the point and already foreseeing self-defense, someone wanted to insert himself in a propaganda and ideological way to do yet another operation from smokescreen and aggregate consensus on a measure that will not produce results and, when it does, will unfortunately be catastrophic results. In fact, inevitably, the innovation of the penal code and legislation will introduce elements of uncertainty that will undermine the safety of citizens and not the opposite. This is the first notation. The second is that it seems to you that on such a delicate issue has been intended to include a normative aspect to concepts of a subjective nature, such as disturbance? We are in the most uncertain sphere possible in terms of legal interpretation and then case law. The disturbance is a feeling and this means that those who are more subject to emotional shock or even those who are more willing for their souls to uncontrolled reactions, are more in a position to react with a weapon of defense? And it must be justified for this reason? Is that what we're talking about? You are introducing an element of uncertainty not for the executioner, but for the victim and on this very delicate terrain will produce enormous damage. Then there is Article 3, which amends Article 165 of the Criminal Code in the matter of the sentenced person's obligations. In fact, if the wording passes, in the case of a conviction for theft in the home or with rip, for example, the benefit of the conditional suspension of the sentence would always and in any case be subject to an economic requirement. Basically, only those who can afford compensation can have access to the benefit of the conditional suspension of the penalty for the crime; this measure takes away the discretion of the judge, depriving it of the function it would have under existing legislation. An attempt not strictly legislative or legal, but all political: insert an automatic and deterministic mechanism and subtract from the discretion of the judge, the only one who has in hand the elements to make an assessment, also concerning the most exquisitely psychological sphere of the victim. In fact, the judge never strayed from such an assessment. I shall conclude with a more purely political note, because then the fallback of the measure you are about to approve will inevitably be measured - I say dramatically - with a given consensus. The citizens of this country are mistakenly thinking that they can finally arm themselves to get justice for themselves. The political fact is this: for a strange nemesis or a kind of paradox, the Minister of the Interior, who should guarantee the security of the country and therefore of its citizens - for whom he is responsible - more than others pushes in the direction of this law. It has a very precise meaning, namely the idea that that Minister - therefore the Government he represents and therefore the State that that Government represents - basically abdicates to his function, namely to guarantee the security of his own citizens. He therefore says to his citizens: because they are not able to put in place policies of prevention or to exercise the function of security to the only ones who can do so - i.e. professionals in the sector, the Forces of Order - arm yourselves and leave, guaranteeing it to yourself, your loved ones and your assets. It is a paradoxical message: the Minister who must ensure the security of the citizens says that he cannot do it and that they must do it themselves. The result, of course, is that, as lawyers and criminalists and even important and significant pieces of the Forces of Order are saying, not only the light of reason is missing, but the opportunity to strengthen the rule of law, because in reality this stuff here, the crap you are doing, makes it more fragile. It is something absolutely untenable and unbearable, with respect to which we express all our opposition, which of course will not stop with this vote, but which we will also take out of the Palace. [[Applause from Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u51	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, having just heard a speech from the benches of the left, it seems to me that sometimes history does not really pass, everything remains the same and the left continues to have the inability to listen to what is coming from the people, from the people, from those who have sent us here and who have the duty to listen. Already in 2006, the legislation of self-defense, which had gone well for many years, was modified. One has to ask why: just because he ruled the center-right? No: some social conditions had changed. What happened? Until a certain moment in our history, the robbery at home was an absolute exception, very rare. The numerous and aggressive Italian delinquents almost always robbed the bank, the post office or, at most, the jewelry store, but the robberies in the house were almost not there; they were robbed in the house, so the thieves were careful to check when no one was there and then did their criminal work. Immigration from the East has brought to Italy a methodology that did not belong to Italian crime: a criminalist tells you and also the President, being in turn a criminalist, at this moment could confirm it. This methodology is typical of another type of crime, which enters the home, threatens, gags, strikes, wounds and, sometimes, kills those who do not say where the goods are to be taken away and then goes with the loot and, often, with the life of the robbed. This new reality, in front of which the left has blindfolded, has led to the need to offer the judiciary a law that takes account of it. It is our fault that in 2006 we were unable to provide clear and unambiguous legislation, thus putting the judiciary in a position to issue divergent judgments. I do not blame the judiciary; on the contrary, I say that the rule of 2006 (fruit of mediation between Catholics, National Alliance, liberals and non-liberals and with the influence of the left) was imperfect and left room for discretion and diversity of judgment from magistrate to magistrate. Therefore, as the dossier you have in hand testifies, we of Brothers of Italy were the first to propose a modification to that norm, but not because, dear colleague, we like the far west (otherwise, you are not an expert on films on the far west, where everyone could carry the gun and the OK Corral took place in the streets and never inside the homes). Here we are talking about widening the scope not of all self-defense, but only of that home and we are not amending by a single comma the legislation on the possession of weapons; on the contrary, your preaching of the far west, false and lying, has led to an incredible thing: according to the legislation that the Government and the majority have proposed to us, self-defense is valid only if you defend yourself with a legitimately possessed weapon. Therefore, for those who defend themselves with a weapon that is not legitimately possessed, self-defense is not valid (while it would be right that it should be charged only for unjust and unlawful possession of a weapon). This is one of the little insanities of the legislation, which, in any case, we generally appreciate and vote for. Returning to the reasoning, you who preach respect for the judiciary should be the first to vote on the proposed legislation, because it finally offers the judiciary a clear criterion of behavior and judgment. It is not true that we take away all discretion from the judiciary, which will always have to check that there has been an unfair entry. It will be the magistrate - and not I - who will decide whether the entry was unfair, occasional or otherwise and will also have to check whether the intention was to damage. After that, having made these verifications, the home defense should always be legitimate, without any other need for judgment and evaluation. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] For this reason, we have proposed the amendment of the legislation of 2006 and we will vote in favour of the measure, although it is different from what we would have liked it to be, but we understand that this is a good balance between different positions within the Government. I was very pleased to hear Mr Lucidi's speech, who is not here now, who has shown that within the Movimento 5 Stars there is a non-left area. This is an intervention that, at 90%, I could have signed. Why do we say that, while voting on it, the measure does not fully satisfy us? I want to tell you very quickly. In addition to the story of the weapon legitimately held, the measure contains another small, but not so much, erroneous assessment. In fact, it is expected that when one is to defend oneself in his own home from unjust offense against his own property, one must be careful that there is no dexistence and danger of aggression. It is right that in order to defend itself we must ensure that there is a danger of aggression, but have you really, ladies and gentlemen, done well to reject our amendment which wanted to eliminate the analysis of the existence by the attacker? Do you really think that anyone at home who finds a person who is entering violently into his intimate sphere, who is stealing from his home and who wants to take away his belongings can assess whether that individual is turning his back or is going to take a weapon? [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups]] It is wrong to reject this amendment, and it was wrong to insist that the disturbance should be serious, that it is another discretion that embarrasssssing the judiciary. It would have been enough to talk of disturbance. When is a disturbance serious and when is it not serious? Who decides that? When do we decide? Let's call the psychologist at the moment and stop the thieves because we have to check if the disturbance is serious, medium or modest? That's ridiculous. These are the two mistakes of this rule, which we would have liked to correct with our three amendments, including the one on the legitimate weapon, which you did not wish to correct. We're okay with that. It is, however, a step forward in the defence and protection of those who, in these years, have suffered this legislation, of those who in recent years, after having had the misfortune of being under the fire of a criminal in their own home or under the threat of their own safety at night or day, have then suffered on their own skin the shame of a trial and sometimes of a condemnation, but it is enough also an acquittal that comes after three years to be an evil - this yes - unjust, which we have always tried to eliminate. Speaking only of the Lombards, we dedicate our vote to Mario Cattaneo of Casaletto Lodigiano, Rodolfo Corazzo of Rhône, Francesco Sicignano of Vaprio D'Adda and to all the other unjustly persecuted assaulted by a State until now blind, which thanks to this law I hope will no longer be. [[Applause from the FdI and FI-BP groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u54	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, in a recent television debate I heard some members of the Movimento 5 Stars say that the issue of citizenship for children born in Italy from foreign couples is not a priority. I think it's a legitimate opinion, but it's an opinion expressed in a country where 70,000 children a year are born of foreign couples. However, I wonder why, then, self-defense has become a priority in recent years, which is a very marginal issue. In the last ten years there have never been more than ten cases for abuse or manslaughter of self-defense. Why then does it become an issue on which to mobilize information, the Chambers, the work of Parliament? The answer is simple: the question is used to ride legitimate fears and make propaganda to mask the inability to answer the security question in the country. This is a law that erases one of the foundations of our Constitution and the rule of law, that of proportionality between offense and defensive reaction. In fact, the law says that the defensive reaction is always a priori proportionate and therefore you can shoot a person who is escaping after being discovered or just because he is inside his own garden. Although you have tried, you have not managed to prevent an evaluation from the judiciary, but to delete the principle of proportionality is an aberration. As we have already shown in the last parliamentary term, we share the need to stand by the victims of crime who have been forced to defend themselves, to introduce the concept of serious disturbance and to acknowledge the compensation of procedural costs for those who have legitimately defended themselves, but to cancel the principle of proportionality changes everything. I am concerned about this principle of cancelled proportionality, if combined with a statement that the Minister of the Interior often repeats when we are faced with such incidents: they have sought it. 11:55 a.m. (Following MIRABELLI). That if they are sought, does it justify any behavior? What does that mean if I'm looking for it? What can you do to a person who has earned it? There is no human piety, there is no evaluation of the value of a human life. If you are looking for it, it cannot be a category that uses institutions. It can't be. The danger of this measure lies here. It is not just about the substance, but about the message that encourages citizens to defend themselves and that proposes a model of dangerous society. This measure, combined with what you have wanted and which has extended the European arms directive, allowing the free sale of weapons more dangerous than those that were allowed before and reducing the requirements for purchase, risks opening up a path to that culture which I think is the reference of many of the arguments I have heard going forward. That culture that has led the countries that have adopted this line, like the United States, to count in 2017 40,000 deaths killed by firearms. In just one year, two-thirds of the deaths in Vietnam. Keep in mind that Italy, already today, is the first country for deaths killed by firearms in Europe, despite being the fifteenth for weapons possessed. It is the highest figure in Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I said that this law intervenes on a marginal issue. In recent years the trials for abuse of self-defense or manslaughter have been very few. And this makes it clear that what matters to you, to the one who proposed it, are the powerful and harmful messages you want to convey: arm yourselves to defend yourself, because the institutions are not able to protect people. That's the message. Not only is there no more security after this manifesto on self-defense, but, on the contrary, citizens will feel more alone and abandoned to themselves by a government that, instead of investing to make our cities safer, prefers to feed fears and say: defend yourself. We are not able to guarantee safety. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The fact that it is the Minister of the Interior and not the Minister of Justice who takes the lead on this rule says a lot. Those who must ensure security give citizens a message of helplessness. He says: do it yourself, arrange it. We'll give you that. And if this choice will result in more victims it will be said that they have sought it, as they say too often, and who cares if we are talking about human lives anyway. It's an ideological flag. Today you will approve it and we will see the consequences in the coming years, but two things must be said. The first is that there will be no more security and citizens must know that. The cases mentioned here, the elderly killed while sleeping and other cases, do not resolve by arming people or thinking that they can arm themselves and defend themselves in homes. Indeed, as the history of the countries that have adopted these strategies shows, where this path has been undertaken there will be more weapons and there will be more deaths. The second is that you take full responsibility for these choices. The people didn't ask you. It's not the law the people wanted. You're making this up. The people don't want the law so they can defend themselves, as you tell them. You have made this an ideological flag. People ask for safety and prevention, not to be left alone in the face of dangers. You can't answer these questions if you don't make them believe that the solution is to defend themselves. We shall vote no for these reasons. We shall vote no for this ideological manifesto. We will vote no for a law that will diminish security in this country. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u57	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are finally there. In the measure that we vote today there is no reference to the license to kill, no will to turn the country into a far west, to turn our citizens into gunmen, no less to give the opportunity to shoot in the back when a thief enters your home. There is no free sale of arms, because we have heard that the measure should contain this too. No. Those who evoked these scenarios say only fantasies that were created ad hoc to try to put in trouble, create disagreements within the majority of government, between the government forces but also between the majority of government and the judiciary. It's not like that. This is a balanced measure, of common sense, which establishes a sacred right that is to always be able to defend itself in your own home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Minister Bongiorno says well when he says that he is wrong who enters the house of others. Above all, those who enter to rob, to rape, to attack must also consider the fact that they can suffer the consequences, which runs a risk. The measure clearly shows that we want to highlight in particular the fact that the protection of the attacker must prevail over the protection of the aggressor. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] The law, in fact, provides for non-penalty for those who act in a state of grave disturbance resulting from a situation of danger and of those who act to defend their own and others' safety. It is a law that serves to defend the victims, because those who defended themselves, those who reacted, often and willingly, then, had to undergo a real judicial ordeal. Let us all relax: it is not true that there will be no investigation. Whenever there is an attack, it is clear that the investigation will take place, so the judiciary will do its job, as it has always done because on this point, too, lies have been told and fantasies have been expressed, always to fuel tensions that were not necessary to feed. The investigation will be there. Of course, someone in the minority claims that the law on self-defense already exists today and that in many cases an acquittal has been reached, i.e. the people who reacted have then been declared innocent because the judiciary has verified that there was no manslaughter of self-defense. True, we do not deny this, but let us not forget what these people have had to go through because, in addition to a state of particular psychological agitation, which then marks you for the rest of their lives, they have often and willingly paid a lot of money for legal expenses, the partisan experts, for the psychologist called to help the family, expenses to secure the house that has obviously suffered damage. There are even cases of people who have been sentenced in the first instance to compensate the relatives of the victims, then acquitted in second degree and in cassation, and who have had to pay, at the end of everything, about 120,000 euros of attorney's fees and then maybe risk even a civil cause because it is not said that, once out of the criminal field, there are also civil causes for damages. Well, with the measure we are about to vote on today, this will no longer be possible because people, if they are finally declared innocent, will no longer have to pay the legal costs, which will be borne by the State, as it should be. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Similarly, there will no longer be the need to compensate the criminals, which is one of the most intolerable things that we have had to attend in many cases in recent times. There will be no more compensation for the criminals, who in fact and finally - in the law it is foreseen - will suffer more severe penalties, which is what we often call and it is right that so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Learning to approve this law, the thought goes to the many people who over the course of time have had to suffer - they are different and many should also be here today to follow our work directly from the forums - and to the families of those gas stations, tobacconists, jewelers and restaurateurs who, for having reacted and for defending themselves, eventually found themselves in the conditions of passing almost on the side of the wrong. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] Our thoughts go to them and to the many people who - alas - have suffered an attack, have not managed to save themselves, because in many cases this has happened too. I would like to thank all my colleagues in the House and the Senate, the Groups, and not only the majority, but also the minority - as has rightly been said - and all those who have cooperated. Here in the Senate the work was carried out brilliantly by our President of the Ostellari Justice Commission, but I would also like to remind you of the work of Undersecretary Molteni, who for many years led the battle for which we arrived today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] I would also like to recall the commitment of Mr Stefani, who, as a member of the Commission for justice in the previous parliamentary term, followed the measure, because it is right to be grateful to those who have worked for so many years anyway and today finally brought this measure to the House for final approval. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] As I have already said, I thank all the group leaders for the work that has been done, because let us not forget that this measure will be voted by the vast majority of Parliament. Most likely the Democratic Party has missed another opportunity to be close to the Italians and all our citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]] In announcing the favorable vote of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I would like to point out that this measure is not the flag of this or that party: it is a sacrosanct principle in the interests of the security of all citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups. Congratulations.]] MALPEZZI (PD). But there are ties to the government!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u60	Gasparri (FI-BP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. Why do we need a law on self-defense, which many have challenged at the root, misusing it and describing its potential danger? The law serves because it is not enough for the change that the centre-right wisely introduced in 2006, which has left too much room for interpretation in the trial, which has shifted to the detriment of the victims. That is why we are here to discuss this measure. We could not adopt a text such as the one in which the night and the day were distinguished and so on: I must say that some exercises done on this matter from the left were really daring. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is good, therefore, to have avoided decisions in the last legislature, when Forza Italia strongly supported already in 2015 the House and the Senate the need for such a change. As my colleagues Mr Caliendo, Mr Aimi and Mr Modena reminded us, in agreement with the parent company Bernini, at the beginning of this parliamentary term we retabled our legislative proposals: we supported them in the Commission and in the House and then voted in favour of the text at the final stage of the legislative process, while regretting - and I say this to Mr Salvini - that some of our amendments have not been accepted. We believe that this law is a step forward, but perhaps someone had to hold back a little for some undecided ally on the issues in question. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Times have been a little slow. It's not enough for the criminal. We want to make it clear that we have a right to defend the citizen and that we also want to say no to double aggression. You see, many cases have been mentioned in these months: there are people who have suffered first the attack of the criminal and then the assault of a judgment lasting up to six years (an additional unjust penalty). [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Now this law does not abolish the judge's assessment, but shifts the centre of gravity to the attacked citizen's side. It could be done, Minister Salvini, a few more steps, and we will do so when there is cultural and programmatic homogeneity in the government forces. But this - as they say - is another story. The law is therefore a deterrent, but also a warning. We don't want an armed nation. That this law, however, extending the margins of action and defence of the citizen, constitutes a deterrent against crime, is not a negative fact: the deterrent of the rules is one of the instruments to guarantee legality. And I want to remember not only the people like Stacchio and so many others, whom we have all known over the years and who are living protagonists of episodes of self-defense. I would like this House to remember all those who died trying to defend themselves, because they were attacked by crime. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] In these days finally marked by the return of Battisti in prison in Italy, I remember the case Torregiani, an episode similar to those we are dealing with: a jeweler attacked who did not make time to defend himself. He died and the son still carries on the flesh the consequence of that aggression. Let us think of those who are controversial and of all those who do not participate in television programmes to explain what happened, because - alas - they have long been dead, because they have not been able to effectively exercise the right to defend themselves. We believe that the state on which it is based should also be asked: this is the question of the measure under consideration. Now, it is obvious that we need an assessment and verification - there is no far west - but a favorable propensity towards the victim must be there. Minister, we also ask you to complete those measures to strengthen the state's presence on the territory, because it is true that the citizen has the right to defend himself, but he also needs to find on the street those policemen and policemen in the neighbourhood that the center-right governments launched. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It is a matter of taking on those recruitments and those appropriations which, in the Security Decree, which we shared in its spirit, we defined as insufficient, and unfortunately we are still of this opinion. We complain about what can be done more and not done, and not about what is done on certain themes. We therefore - let us be clear - stand on the side of those pharmacists, traders, jewelers and families, because even the house - as Senator Aimi said before - and private property are a good to protect. Property is not a theft to be plundered, but it is a good that you have the right to protect. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We are not ashamed to say it: people and goods, obviously with the necessary balance. If our amendments had been adopted, we would have had even more clarity; there are civilistic falls and interpretative aspects will arise, but there will be time and way to deal with them. I want to make it clear that this is not a law that lays down the license to kill: it protects the duty not to die at the hands of criminals, in their own shop or in their own home. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] It's exactly the opposite: people will not shoot passers-by from the windows, as I read today speculating from someone in the newspapers. It is a matter of not having the duty to immolate himself because a criminal breaks into his own home to plunder it for anything. We are convinced of the vote in favour, which partially welcomes the battles we have fought, which we will continue to do and which we hope will be approved with a culturally homogeneous majority. Therefore, the appointment is with a center-right majority that makes the law to the full to protect the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] Some say that there are political implications to our vote. There is no mysterious implication: there is political clarity. We have said since the beginning of this legislature that we would defend all the arguments drawn from the programme of the center-right; moreover, the proposals of Forza Italia here in the Senate are printed and documented. This was one of the key principles of the security policy proposed by the centre-right and, therefore, we are there where the voters placed us on March 4, 2018, with unshakable consistency. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] We've been the center-right with Berlusconi for 25 years. Is there too many for anyone? We think that there are few, because of these twenty-five, only nine of us lived in the government, while the others lived with left-wing governments or technicians who ruined Italy. We continue in a commitment of center-right which, among other things, this year, from Palermo to Potenza, from Pescara to Cagliari, saw the proposal prevail, the candidatures of the center-right. I understand that some of the current majority in the government vote uncomfortablely on this draft law, which is perhaps also useful because, Mr President, self-defense - obviously not armed, but dialectic, political and peaceful - would also be needed in relation to certain sectors of this Government that have led Italy to recession. It would really take self-defense in terms of economy and work. We shall vote in favour, aware of the battle we have waged in recent years - a battle that is political, legal and cultural - in order to move the centre of gravity of criminal law not towards the far west, not towards widespread violence, but towards the protection of the citizen, the trader, the family, the house, so that the judiciary also makes its own investigations, but does not think that it has before criminals, but of the victims who cannot suffer the torture of another trial. Therefore, the absolute coherence of Forza Italia is unassailable, because we remain on the programs with which we presented ourselves to the voters in the political elections, with which we are continuing to win on the territory with a united centerright; then, if others are placed elsewhere, it is their problem. Ours is also a vote in favour of one of the hinges, the main themes of the right centre: more security, more protection for the citizen, more self-defense. With this conscience and with this consistency we are pleased that this measure has arrived at its final step: we could do more, before and better, but we are content waiting to file a Government that on other sides damages Italy. And we are pleased to see at least one piece of the center-right program win with a vote that Forza Italia expresses with the spirit of those who sponsored these thesis first, without having to undergo lessons from anyone, but with that consistency that is our typical choice. Ours is therefore a yes to coherence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u61	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Salvo D'Acquisto" of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u64	VONO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the measure on which we have been discussing so far concerns changes in the matter of home self-defense and manslaughter and also intervenes with regard to certain crimes against property and the crime of trespassing. It is true that the subject has been subject to amendments to Law No 59 of 2006, which introduced the hypothesis of home self-defense, but it is not true that that reform can now be considered completely exhaustive. The law is not static and much less doctrine and jurisprudence. In order to address the needs of society that changes and evolves continuously, the law must in the same way always update itself to protect the constitutional guarantees towards every citizen. It is undeniable that today the social conditions have changed and it is beyond doubt that the legislator cannot be content to have reformed a law in the past, but must necessarily intervene in order to make the legislative texts adapted to the times. The institute of self-defense is placed legally among the causes of justification of the crime and has its reason to be precisely in the need of self-protection of the person, when it is not possible direct protection by the legal order. Therefore - and I say this to my colleagues on the left - it is the same legislation that recognizes a special derogation, within certain limits, from the prerogative of the State of the use of force. Article 1, amending the second paragraph of Article 52 of the Criminal Code, introducing the adverb "always" and thus stating that there is always the proportionality relationship between the defence and the offense, finally finds a solution to the limits of the lawfulness of the legitimate defence, that the legal presumption introduced in 2006 had failed to overcome, in fact circumventing the principle of absolute presumption. With the introduction of the fourth paragraph of Article 52 of the penal code is sanctioned the sacred right to self-protection, always considering in a state of self-defense who, in the face of the threatening attitudes put in place by the use of weapons or other means of physical coercion, react promptly in defense of his own life or of his own or others' safety. And this does not mean that he will not be subject to a trial, because prosecution in Italy is mandatory, precisely under our Constitution. In the text, then, the subject of the abuse of the criminal supplement to self-defense is considered. In Article 2, although the definition that leads to the excessive manslaughter referred to in Article 55 of the Criminal Code is identical, two paragraphs are introduced, excluding the liability of those who have committed the event in the event of a disabled defense or serious disturbance, arising precisely from the situation of danger. In addition, Article 7 also intervenes on the civil level of self-defense and excessive manslaughter, further regulating Article 2044 of the Civil Code, with the specification that, in the case of home self-defense, for which liability is excluded, ex Article 52, second, third and fourth paragraphs, of the Criminal Code, is also excluded the responsibility of those who have committed the event. This change is made necessary to prevent the author of the event, if acquitted in criminal proceedings, from being obliged to compensate for the damage caused by the same event in civil proceedings. To date, the victims, in addition to suffering years of trials, which lead them to relive every day the scenes of violence suffered, when they succeed, have had to compensate with thousands of euro thieves and aggressors, with serious consequences, therefore, from the psychological point of view, but also economic, for themselves and their families. We believe that these rules have, despite the instrumental discussions of a policy of narrow horizons, including legal ones, a highly preventive aspect, since above all the provision of Article 52 of the penal code, as amended and combined with Article 2044 of the civil code, acts as a deterrent, causing the aggressor to desist and reflect before putting in place the criminal action, considering the possibility for the victim, now determined by law, to defend himself, if under certain conditions, and the denial of any monetary compensation in civil, which often makes the victim further penalized. It is from this point of view that it is very often seen as aggressors who are graciously compensated and benefited, in certain cases, with the conditional suspension of the sentence, that it is inserted the subordination of such concession to the full payment of the amount due for the compensation of the damage to the person offended, in the cases of sentence for theft in the apartment. Only short-sighted people see the discriminatory reference in the only economic element and fail to see the preventive side of the norm and the action of deterrent to commit the crime, considering that these actions are usually put in place by those who, not possessing any financial capital, go in search of the other. Other deterrent elements of the law are the tightening of the sanctioning framework for offences of trespassing, house theft, tearing and robbery, with a view to further tightening of penalties for aggravated assumptions. The provisions on legal expenses, which extend the rules on legal aid in favour of the person in respect of whom the filing or dismissal has been ordered and the non-negotiation to proceed, with effect from the burden from the year 2019, testify to the will of this majority to guarantee and protect every citizen who acts in the legitimacy of the defence. The legislative intervention in the matter of self-defense and manslaughter, in the terms in which we have conceived and elaborated, has become necessary in order to put an end to the cases of incivility that increasingly force all of us to renounce our habits, to our private life also within our homes and our commercial activities, professional and entrepreneurial, because of criminal actions put in place by those who do not have the minimum civic sense of respect for the other. There are no excuses for those who enter a private home, all the more so if the goal is to delinquere, malmenare, rape and often even kill. And it does not matter the numbers or statistics relating to the proceedings discussed or existing in the courts because, even if it were a single case, we would have the obligation, with the legislative power at our disposal, to intervene as guarantors of the legality of the State. Faithful to this role and to the principles of justice and legality founding the 5 Star Movement and in which each one of us recognizes himself, symbolically embracing all the family members of the victims and continuing to stand beside those who made it, we express a vote in favour of the approval of the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group and L-SP-PSd'Az. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u65	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Live, sustained applause from the M5S, FI-BP, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups, whose senators stand up.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u68	CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the last parliamentary session before the meeting of the World Congress of Families in Verona. I would like to ask the President why the motion calling for clarification on the legal aid for this event was not put to the vote. I would point out that the motion was signed by the Group as a whole - I stress the whole Group - of the Democratic Party, by the members of the Mixed Group belonging to LEU, Senator Bonino and Senator of the Socialist Party Nencini. This motion asked, Mr President, for an important clarification as regards sponsorship. The Council of Ministers, in the person of President Conte, has denied that there is the patronage of the Presidency of the Council, but to date, if we open the site of the Congress of Families, it even appears the star of the Republic. [[Mr Salvini went to the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and received his applause. All Senators of the L-SP-PSd'Az Group turn to the information operators forum by making the thumb mark up.]] The star of the Republic cannot be granted for something that simply wants to... ( [[Comments from the PD Group.]] I understand that photos in this House are forbidden, Mr President. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSdAZ Group. Repented comments and protests from the PD Group and Senator Errani.]] This is the stadium now.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u69	If you sit down, we'll listen to Senator Cirinna.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u70	Mr Verducci (PD). Shame! CIRINNA' (PD). The Senators of the League have every interest in not listening to what I'm saying, another abuse perpetrated against the Republic. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm listening. CIRINNA' (PD). Thank you, President. His important office, the second office of the State... Errani (Misto-Leu). It's not acceptable. The session isn't over! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please sit down. Senators are dropping. We wait for them to flow away then. Senator Cirinna, these are late-session speeches. Let people who don't want to listen flow. [[Comments of Senator Malpezzi]] You don't have the floor, Senator Malpezzi. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] MALPEZZI (PD). The Senators of the League have all put themselves in favor of the photographers. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Cirinna, continue. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] CIRINNA' (PD). My colleagues in the League have no interest - I repeat - in listening to what they have done... They don't have any interest and they're flowing. Since I have an interest in listening to you, please finish your speech. CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I would like to use all the time I have at my disposal quietly to explain to the second office of the State that there are still 48 hours to avoid abuse of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is an abuse to the detriment of something that represents all, as is the coat of arms, called stellar, of our Republic, which, despite the controversy, the ridiculous balls, the denials and the mockery, still appears in the patronage of that congress, free to do - for charity, free to hold - but not in the name of the State; a congress where people will speak who only have the interest to discriminate between families of a certain type and others. The serious thing, Mr President, is that three ministers will take part in this debate. [[Comments of Senator La Russa]] , but not as representatives and secretaries of their party, but as ministers, thus representing this Parliament, the Government and the country. It's not fair. Italians need to know. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The real gravity concerns Minister Bussetti, because some ministers, who administer and govern in the name of all, while respecting the Constitution, cannot lend themselves to ambiguous discriminatory discussions: the school is public and remains so. The Minister of the Interior is the Minister of the Interior for all and for all families. Families are all the same: married, civilly united, single parent families, single parent families. It is not acceptable that, under the shield of the Republic, they should be discriminated against. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Masini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u73	COMINANCES (PD). Mr President, a few weeks ago I put a question to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport concerning an important noise mitigation intervention to be carried out by Milano Serravalle-Milano Tangentiali SpA in the territory of the Municipality of Buccinasco. A series of bureaucratic delays is preventing that work, financed by the dealership, from being carried out. 12:33 p.m. (Beginnings followed). The question has not yet been answered and I would therefore ask the Presidency to urge the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to give an answer. I am not so interested in the formal answer to the question that I submitted as I am in moving a pen from the desk of the Ministry and the competent manager, who simply has to approve a financial plan that the concessionary company has submitted for some time now, which is late and still not approved by the Ministry. Only with the approval of that financial plan can the acoustic mitigation work be carried out. I therefore ask the Presidency to urge the Minister and his Ministry to respond to the question, but above all to carry out a simple bureaucratic task. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u76	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I rise to draw the attention of our system and, therefore, of the competent minister on a motorway issue which has also seen a piece of entertainment broadcast here between an owl questioner and the minister responsible. the decree-law for Genoa has assigned 192 million euros for urgent intense activities on the A24-A25 highway. Afterwards, we had the conversion law and three times the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport failed to draw up the ministerial decree, since the concert of the central budgetary office of the same Ministry was omitted. The public accounts are built on a pair of financial stocks, so there are cash accounts and that of competence: the 192 million euros for urgent interventions for the security have had 162 million euros in cash and 30 million euros in competence; in fact, since September, there is a sort of Foucault pendulum that does not make available these resources. I therefore intervene to draw the attention of the order and, through it, of the Minister and of the Ministry to align languages and documents, in order to ensure that those resources produce shipbuilding and suits of workers capable of carrying out interventions. To date, that motorway needs more than 2 billion euros of work: 192 million euros are in the belly of the Ministry and about 461 have already been used since 2003 to date. End-of-session speeches of this kind should serve to rearrange the agenda of Ministers and Ministries. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u79	RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring the attention of this House to Cesare Battisti, a terrorist who was convicted several times, who escaped Frosinone prison in 1981 and for fugitive and fugitive years. Finally he returned to Italy - in handcuffs, if God wills - thanks to an international police operation that led him under arrest last 12 January in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia. Battisti was returned to the prison patriae and transferred to the prison of Oristano, where he will finally be able to serve life and no longer circulate on the loose, sunbathing on the beaches of South America and sipping a cerveza. In recent days, the chronicles have reported the news that Baptists admitted - finally and for the first time, I stress - their responsibilities for the crimes that were accused of them. For the first time, after decades, Baptists declared himself guilty - he admitted them, as reported in the minutes of the interrogations - of four murders, which ended four innocent lives for a murderous and cowardly ideology. I read the terrorist's words, because that's what it's called. I was supported in my futility by parties, groups of intellectuals, especially in the publishing world, as ideological and logistical support.I was considered an intellectual, I wrote books, I was in short an ideologically motivated person. In his stories we learn of a normal life, the opening of a restaurant, the writing of books and the collaboration with magazines, as it were, Mr President. Good thing Bolsonaro arrived in Brazil and Matteo Salvini in Italy, who finally allowed him to return to our country and bring him to justice. Dear President, I shall begin by concluding with a reflection. The admission of the murders by Baptists can only make us think of those intellectuals, writers, journalists, exponents of the radical chic left who in all this time have persisted in defending Caesar Battisti without whether or not but, as if he were a persecuted or the victim of a political persecution. But no, Mr President, he was only a person who was fleeing from his own responsibilities and justice. The problem with them is whether or not Minister Salvini wears the jacket of the Forces of Order and not if a murderer is brought to justice. I conclude with an invitation to this left: keep on doing so; always on the wrong side and you will be a great satisfaction for us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u82	Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I asked to speak to remind the House of Ernesto Buondonno, who died a few days ago in Fermo. He was the protagonist, at local and national level, of that cultural revolution, even before in medicine and psychiatrist, guided by the ideas and actions of Franco Basaglia. It was certainly a revolution in our country, but, due to its impact, also at an international level. Ernesto Buondonno arrived in Fermo, as a young psychiatrist, to work in the psychiatric hospital, what was once called the asylum. In the fifties, when he arrived in our country, the diagnosis of mental illness was equivalent to a real death sentence and in the handles there was contentiousness, isolation and deprivation of freedom. The idea was to suppress and sedate, as well as control, as well as hide from the rest of the city and society those who experienced such an anguish and painful disease. Mr President, the asylum was the emblem of a social logic aimed also at the annihilation of the different. Ernesto Buondonno, with Franco Basaglia and many other psychiatrists, was instead the protagonist of another model of psychiatry, what was then called democratic psychiatry, and of the struggles to transform the handles into therapeutic communities and, above all, to overcome prejudices and stigma and to break down the walls. In 1974 he was the protagonist of the opening of the asylum, a few years before the so-called Basaglia law, which in 1978 will be a huge step forward for our rule of law against segregation and social exclusion and in favour of care based on the recovery of the personal stories of the sick, dialogue and understanding. Mr President, remembering today the events of Ernesto Buondonno and Franco Basaglia, I would also like to recall the importance of the rule of law in a time, like ours, in which the Government of Movimento 5 Stars and the League repeatedly attacks the rights, even constitutional, recognized in our country. I want to pay homage to those men who, by restoring dignity and citizenship to those who were considered rejected by the world, to the point of having to be hidden in the eyes of the rest of society, have given our democracy and our country that respect and those rights that we are fooled of today and for which we are known all over the world. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u85	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of the House and also of the Government, in the hope that it will be able to answer the questions filed, reports of illegal practices carried out by UBI Banca, whose summits are in judgment for serious crimes following detailed complaints made since 2012 by Adusbef and a former Member of Parliament, President of the small shareholders of UBI, Giorgio Jannone. This process goes on thanks to the constancy and tenacity of some magistrates, such as the public prosecutor Fabio Pelosi, and the officers of the Finance Guard, all transferred because they did not have to investigate that whitewashed sepulchre. These are very serious facts which are censored and obscured and, unfortunately, in the process of which the Bank of Italy did not even form a civil part. IWBank, the online institute of the UBI group, between May 7, 2008 and May 14, 2014 would have carried out transactions without anti-money laundering controls for the remarkable sum of 1,000 billion euros - I repeat, 1,000 billion - without the adequate checks on the effective ownership of the sums handled on 104,000 of the 140,000 accounts and with incomplete examinations on the other 36,000. The hole in compulsory checks involved 49 million transactions in securities and financial instruments. For those events, the pm of Milan Elio Ramondini last Monday, March 25, in the trial with abbreviated before the judge for the preliminary hearings of the court Cristina Mannocci, has asked the sentence to two years and six months for each of the 14 investigated in the proceedings in which they are accused also according to law n. 231 on the responsibility of the institutions. For these very serious behaviors, Mr President, yesterday Bankitalia late in the evening, only after about ten years from the beginning of the violations, has issued a statement stating the decision of the Directory of 8 March with which the UBI Group was fined 1.2 million for violation of anti-money laundering regulations. I therefore urge the Government to respond on the story described and on the European directive on the goodness of bankers, in application of the European directive 2013/36 of 26 June 2013, which causes the administrator to lapse from office simply investigated in view of the UBI assembly of 12 April (in a few days) whose agreements provide for the renewal of Victor Massiah to the office of CEO and Roberto Nicastro, former president of the fund that with 3.6 billion saved the four banks, giving to UBI three of the four banks. A very important fact concerns Assogestioni, the society of the funds that has not submitted in protest of any candidate. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by calling for drastic measures to protect savings, considering these behaviours to be extremely serious, such as the postponement of the hearing in the vicinity of the prescription for crimes of fraud and other serious crimes against bankers in Arezzo, who have reset the savers of Banca Etruria, where unfortunately there was the suicide of Luigino D'Angelo. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-03-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-104.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 2 April, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 12.47 p.m.
