ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 11 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u4	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: On 11 July 2019, Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, on my proposal, by decree of 10 July, appointed Mr. Dr. Alessandra LOCATELLI. In addition, with my decrees today, after consulting the Council of Ministers, I gave, pursuant to Article 9 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, to Ministers without portfolios on. Dr. Mr Lorenzo FONTANA and Mr Dr. Alessandra LOCATELLI, respectively, positions for European affairs and for disability and family. f.to Giuseppe Conte
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u5	I inform you that on 11 July 2019 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 64 of July 11, 2019 amending Decree-Law No 21 of March 15, 2012, converted, with amendments, by Law No 56 of May 11, 2012 (1412).
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u8	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I rise with some regret because I think that our work and our agenda cannot begin before a statement by the Presidency on the very clear request that we made at the sitting of 11 July last, namely the last sitting of this House, with which we asked the Presidency to be prepared by the President of the Council to report to the House on events of serious political importance, which were of great interest to the whole country and which, even - it was discovered during last Thursday's sitting - were the subject of an investigation for alleged international corruption, opened by the Milan Public Prosecutor. I am referring, if anyone has forgotten, to the "secret treaties" between members of the League Party and persons of Russian nationality, apparently close to the party of President Putin, who had as possible the subject of funding, if it were so illegal, to the League, to carry out the best electoral campaign for Europeans. That morning we asked the President-in-Office, Calderoli, to send President Casellati the request to bring President Conte to the Assembly, to remove the shadow that these facts are throwing on the government of the country. President Calderoli said that he would immediately undertake to forward this request to President Casellati and at the same time, present the Undersecretary for relations with Parliament, to transfer it to the Government. Having said that on all regulatory issues, which are not at all clarified - indeed, after the words of President Casellati in the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" they appear even more contradictory - the Democratic Party will take precise and specific initiatives, for a definitive clarification [[Applause from the PD Group]] , because it was embarrassing the Presidency's behaviour with regard to the admissibility of our questions, of which we discussed so much last Thursday and learned that Mr Fraccaro said that he had asked Mr Salvini to come to the Houses and that Mr Salvini also gave it, I wonder how it would be possible for this sitting to begin, after four days, without a statement from the President on such an important request. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I think the matter is clear: the Senate has the right to know whether the President has formally asked the President of the Council to come to the House to report and what response has been given, because if this answer were negative or we had not all known that we would be in the presence of a serious institutional incident. [[Applause from the PD Group]] A serious institutional incident which, among other things, would continue to cast shadows on the government of this country and I think that the Senate must absolutely be removed from these shadows, carrying out its function of control and request for information and clarification. Therefore, Mr President, let us use - let me say the word - you too, but it is quite clear that a clear answer must come as soon as possible to the formal question posed by our party and our group. It seems to us to be an element of further ambiguity that today's sitting has not opened with this clarity; we will never withdraw from this request for clarity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u9	Senator Ferrari, I can only accept your request and make sure that I convey it to the Presidency. [[Comments from the PD Group]] MALPEZZI (PD). Again? We are waiting for an answer, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At this moment, in my presidency it is the only message... MALPEZZI (PD). Call the president. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can vouch for your request and I am sure there will be an answer. MALPEZZI (PD). I get it, but stop and call. We've been waiting for a week!
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1200, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 174, 229, 295, 335, 548 and 662. [[Comments from the PD Group]] The speakers, Senators Pellegrini Emanuele and Evangelista, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Emanuele.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the draft law No 1200 of government initiative, which has already been adopted in the Chamber of Deputies, amends the penal code, the code of criminal procedure and other provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender-based violence. On the substance, the measure consists of 21 articles identifying a catalog of offences involving domestic and gender violence and, in relation to these cases, it intervenes on the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to speed up the establishment of criminal proceedings and consequently speed up the possible adoption of measures for the protection of victims. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I think the subject is quite important; hearing laughs behind us is not the best.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u12	I didn't hear any laughter. I would ask the House to give at least the silence due to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u13	Mr Pellegrini Emanuele, rapporteur. Thank you. The measure also affects the penal code to tighten the penalties for some of the aforementioned crimes, to remove some aggravating factors and to introduce new criminal offences. Domestic or gender violence is traced from the bill to the following cases: abuse of family and cohabitants, aggravated and group sexual violence, sexual acts with minors, corruption of minors, persecutory acts, illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos, aggravated personal injury and deformation of the person's appearance by permanent facial injury. I will then proceed to the illustration of Articles 1 to 9, leaving the illustration of the remaining provisions to the co-rapporteur, Senator Evangelista. Articles 1 to 3 of the draft law intervene on the code of criminal procedure, providing, against news of crime related to crimes of domestic and gender violence, that the judicial police, acquired the news of crime, report immediately to the prosecutor, even in oral form; that the prosecutor, within three days from the registration of the news of crime, take information from the person offended or from those who denounced the facts of crime; finally, that the judicial police proceed without delay to the completion of the investigative acts delegated by the prosecutor, making, always without delay, available to the public prosecutor the documentation of the activities carried out. Article 4 regulates the new offence of violation of the provisions of removal from the family home and of prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the person offended. The new offence punishes with imprisonment from six months to three years anyone who violates the obligations or prohibitions deriving from the measure that applies the protective measures of removal from the family home and the prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the injured person or the order of removal of urgency from the family home. Article 5 provides for the activation of specific training courses for the staff of the State Police, the Arm of the Carabinieri and the Corps of the Prison Police, which carries out public security and judicial police functions in relation to the prevention and prosecution of domestic and gender violence offences and which intervenes in the penitentiary treatment of persons convicted of domestic and gender violence offences. The courses will have to be activated by the institutes of formation of the different Corps within twelve months of the entry into force of the law and on the basis of homogeneous contents, which will have to be identified by decree of the President of the Council, in agreement with the Ministers for Public Administration, the Interior, Justice and Defence. For the staff identified by the different administrations, the attendance of the courses is mandatory. Article 6 adds a further paragraph to Article 165 of the Criminal Code in the matter of conditional suspension of the sentence. The new provision provides that, with regard to offences of domestic and gender violence, the conditional suspension of the sentence is however subject to participation in specific recovery paths in bodies or associations dealing with the prevention, psychological assistance and recovery of persons sentenced for the same crimes. The costs of participating in such recovery courses shall be borne by the sentenced person. Article 7 introduces in the penal code, Article 558-a, the new crime of constraint or induction to marriage. The new case punishes with imprisonment from one to five years anyone, with violence or threat, forces a person to contract a bond of a personal nature or civil union taking advantage of the conditions of vulnerability, mental inferiority or necessity of a person, with abuse of family relationships, domestic, working or of the authority deriving from the custody of the person for reasons of care, education or education, supervision or custody, and induces him to contract marriage or civil union. It is a common crime, as an active subject of conduct it can be anyone. Incriminated conduct consists in forcing others to marry or engage in a civil union. The provision then, given the ultra-national dimension of the phenomenon to be struck, establishes that the crime is punished even when the fact is committed abroad by Italian citizen or foreigner resident in Italy or to the detriment of Italian citizen or foreigner resident in Italy. The new Article 558- bis of the Criminal Code then brings about the aggravating circumstances of the crime of forced marriage. In particular, the penalty has increased if the facts are committed to the detriment of a minor of eighteen years; if the facts are committed to the detriment of a minor of fourteen years, the penalty is of imprisonment from two to seven years. I would remind you that the Commission has already begun examining two draft laws, in particular the Senate Act 174, at the first signature of Senator Ginetti, and the Senate Act 662, at the first signature of Senator Pucciarelli, who introduce, through amendments to the penal code, measures to combat the phenomenon of early and forced marriages. The article 8, paragraph 1, makes changes to article 11 of law 11 January 2018 n. 4, transposing the changes to the budget made by the last budget law and increasing by 7 million euros from 2020 the allocation of the rotating fund for solidarity to the victims of mafia-type crimes, extortive requests, usury and violent intentional crimes, as well as orphans for domestic crimes. The resources are allocated as follows: EUR 2 million from 2017 is allocated to the provision of scholarships for orphans for domestic crimes and to the financing of initiatives for guidance, training and support for the inclusion of orphans in work; EUR 3 million for 2019 and EUR 5 million from 2020 are allocated instead to support measures and economic aid in favour of foster families according to equity criteria established by a decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this provision. Paragraph 2 of Article 8 provides for the financial cover of the new charges. Article 9 deals with crimes of ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants and persecuting acts. The provision provides for an increase in the penalty for the crime of ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants. The current sentence of imprisonment from two to six years is replaced by imprisonment from three to seven years; an aggravated case is foreseen when the crime of ill-treatment is committed in the presence or harm of a minor, a pregnant woman or a person with disabilities, or if the fact is committed with weapons: in these cases the penalty has increased to half. For coordination, having introduced the special aggravation, the measure removes from the common charge of Article 61 of the Criminal Code the reference to the crime of ill-treatment. The provision also puts the crime of ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants on the list of crimes which allow preventive measures to be applied against suspects. Article 9 then intervenes, as mentioned, on the murder of stalking, replacing the current sentence of imprisonment from six months to five years that of imprisonment from one year to six years and six months. Again with regard to stalking, it is expected that the court, in order to dispose of prevention measures, also with regard to the suspects of such a crime, may impose the prohibition of approaching certain places usually frequented by minors. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Evangelista.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I would like to go on to illustrate the measure from Article 10 to Article 21. Article 10 provides for the introduction into the penal code of Article 612-b, i.e. the crime of illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos without the consent of the person represented. This is the specific criminalization of the phenomenon known with neologism revenge porn, born in the Anglo-Saxon world to indicate the dissemination, not consensual and dictated by vindictive purposes, of images that pertain to the sexual life of the person represented. The first paragraph sanctiones, with the penalty of imprisonment from one to six years and with the fine from 5,000 to 15,000 euros the conduct of anyone, after having realized or stolen them, send, surrender, ceda, publish or spread, without the express consent of the interested persons, images or videos sexually explicit intended to remain private. The second paragraph punishes so-called sharers with the same penalty. In the event of receipt, for the existence of the crime, in order to configure the criminal liability, the staff member must carry out the conduct without the consent of the persons represented and with the aim of bringing them harm. The third paragraph provides for two aggravated hypotheses (up to a third of the sentence): the first is the sentimental relationship that, previous or existing, binds the offender of the offence with the person offended; the second is if the diffusion takes place with computer or computer tools. The fourth subparagraph provides for the addition of one third to half if the facts are committed to the detriment of a pregnant woman, or if the victim is in conditions of physical or mental inferiority. As regards the procedure regime (fifth paragraph), the offence is punishable by a complaint from the offending person, except in the cases referred to in the fourth paragraph. The deadline for the proposition is six months and remission can only be procedural. Article 11, composed of a single paragraph, amends the penal code by intervening on the murder aggravated by the personal relationships referred to in Article 577 of the penal code, to extend the scope of the aggravating agents by means of three interventions. Point (a) amends the first paragraph of the article in question, allowing the application of life imprisonment also in cases of murder committed against the descendant, also due to the adoption of a child. It also makes alternative assumptions currently considered as cumulative of stable coexistence and affective relationship. Point (b) intervenes on the second paragraph of Article 577 of the Criminal Code to provide for the imposition of imprisonment from twenty-four to thirty years if the victim of the murder is, in addition to the divorced spouse and the other part of the ceased civil union, already provided for in applicable legislation, also the person linked to the culprit by stable coexistence or affective relationship, if ceased or adopted. Finally, point (c) adds a further paragraph to Article 577 of the Penal Code, providing, by way of derogation from the ordinary criteria of balance between circumstances, that attenuators other than those provided for in Articles 62, number 1 (having acted for reasons of particular moral or social value), 89 (partially minded vice), 98 (less than eighteen years) and 114 (in cases of minimal importance in the preparation or execution of the crime; coercion exercised by a person with authority or in the event of mental illness), competing with the aggravating circumstances referred to in the first paragraph, paragraph 1 and in the second paragraph, cannot be considered to be prevalent with respect to these. Article 12, paragraph 1, inserts in the penal code the crime of deformation of the appearance of the person by permanent injury to the face, thereby repealing the current corresponding hypothesis of serious personal injury (common 3). The new case is inserted in Article 583-d of the penal code and punishes with imprisonment from eight to fourteen years the personal injury from which derive the permanent deformation or scarring of the face. The sentence also follows the ancillary penalty of the perpetual ban from the offices related to the protection, the care and the administration of support. Paragraph 2, inserts the crime of deformation of appearance by facial injury in the list of prodromic crimes in relation to the commission of the murder, among the aggravating circumstances of the murder involving life imprisonment - Article 576 of the Criminal Code. Paragraph 4 adds the crime of deformation of the appearance of the person by permanent injury to the face of the person of those provided for in Article 585 of the Criminal Code which, in the cases of commission with the aid of the aggravating agents provided for in Articles 576 and 577, entails an increase from one third to half if the circumstances governed in the first case and up to a third in the second case, together with the cases in which the fact is committed with weapons, corrosive substances, or by a person misrepresented or by several persons gathered. Finally, paragraph 5 amends the penitentiary order, specifically Article 4-a, including among the crimes that require, in order to grant the penitentiary benefits, a scientific observation of the personality conducted collegially for at least one year, also the crime of deformation of the appearance of the person through permanent injuries to the face. In addition, such intervention is also planned in cases where the crime has a minor victim and, in relation to the granting of the measures, the participation in the psychological rehabilitation programme provided for in Article 13- bis of the penitentiary order should be evaluated. Consequently, Article 17 supplements the catalogue of offences provided for therein with those of ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants, deformation of the person's appearance by permanent facial injury and stalking and adds the possibility for the condemned to follow paths of reintegration into society and recovery from bodies and associations dealing with the prevention and recovery of those sentenced for the same crimes. Article 13 reinforces the sanctioning framework for crimes of sexual violence (Articles 609-a to 609-g) and the relevant aggravated cases. The basic penalty for sexual violence (Article 609 -bis) shall be raised to a minimum of six years and to a maximum of twelve years (paragraph 1). On the aggravated hypothesis (Article 609 -ter) intervenes (in paragraph 2), in coordination with the provisions for the previous article, providing in place of the edittale scissors previewed the increase of penalty of a third; moreover it previews that the sexual violence committed by the ascendant, the parent also adoptive or the guardian is always aggravated regardless of the age of the victim; then remodulates, inasprendole, the aggravating ones when the sexual violence is committed in damage of less than fourteen years and ten (penal respectively increased of half and doubled). The provision, in paragraph 3, novella article 609 -quater of the penal code, previewing an aggravating up to a third for the crime of sexual acts with minors when they are committed with under fourteen years in exchange for money or any other utility, even only promised, and increases to four years the difference of age, for the purpose of the applicability of the criminal in cases of sexual acts between minors (ultrathred years). Paragraph 4 amends Article 609 -septies of the penal code, providing for the processibility of office for the crime of sexual acts with minors, thereby repealing the paragraph relating to the same procedure with regard to the crime in damage of less than ten years. The deadline for lodging a complaint is 12 months. In this direction also the draft law no. 229, 295 and 548 at first signature respectively Ginetti, Giammanco and Faithful. Paragraph 5 amends Article 609 -octies of the Criminal Code on group sexual violence, raising the minimum and maximum penalties respectively. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude. I've already given you an extra minute. Mr Evangelista, rapporteur. In conclusion, Article 14 introduces in the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure the transmission of documents to civil courts; Article 15 deals with reporting obligations in the context of proceedings for domestic and gender-based violence; Article 16 deals with precautionary measures; Article 18 deals with anti-violence centres; Article 19 deals with the increase of the fund for the compensation of victims of this type of crime, such as Article 20 and Article 21 includes the financial invariance clause. I shall conclude, Mr President, by calling for the draft law to be adopted quickly, given the social urgency of the underlying problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u15	The minority rapporteur, Senator Cirinna, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u16	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, an important and long-awaited bill comes to the Senate Assembly today, a gift does not come to this House, a gift does not come to women as only a few days ago dared Minister Salvini, but the result of years of struggles between associations and thousands of women active in the fight against gender violence in this country. Not a gift, but a conquest, because the rights, ladies and gentlemen, are not the result of a gift or a graceful concession from the power, but the recognition of something that belongs to everyone and everyone for equal dignity, as our Constitution requires. Mr President, first of all, we must stress the willingness that the Democratic Party and other oppositions in this Parliament have shown in addressing the path of this bill, the open and constructive spirit with which we have participated in the proceedings in the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, an unnecessary availability. (Brusio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, excuse me, I would like to ask my colleagues if they can please lower their voices, because I do not hear the rapporteur. Thank you. Cyrinna, minority rapporteur. Thank you, Madam President. Here in the Senate, the situation, if possible, has worsened further: the text has not undergone any changes, none of the improved amendments tabled by the Democratic Party, which shares the meritorious aims of the text. The debate at the Justice Commission has been completely disrespectful of any prerogative of the opposition, with a deaf majority to any request and comparison in the substance of the text and its most critical provisions. This is an attitude to which, unfortunately, we are now accustomed, consistent with the general framework of contempt for the guarantees and respect of minorities that the Government and its majority are carrying out every day. At the same time, it is an attitude to which we cannot, nor do we intend to resign, convinced - as we are - that only in respect of the Constitution and the guarantees lies the hope of a better future for Italy, of growth, development, freedom, equality and respect for differences and vulnerable people. This conviction has guided us throughout the parliamentary process: improving the text because the role of the opposition is to provide the majority with a different view on things. However, we are faced with a great missed opportunity. The need to complete an apparatus for combating gender violence, effective protection of women and the promotion of an effective culture of gender equality is felt almost unanimously by all the competent in this Parliament. However, on such important, serious and shared objectives we needed to work differently, with a long-term logic, out of the rhetoric of the emergency, which certainly makes more in terms of communication or - unfortunately - mere political propaganda. This does not help to identify effective solutions to a problem of a cultural nature, so sadly linked to our society, such as that of gender violence. Yet, we in the Democratic Party have striven and have always had a constructive and responsible attitude because we are well aware that the contrast to the dramatic phenomenon of gender violence requires an approach that holds together the needs of safety and protection of the victim - of course - but also of the extreme need for confidentiality that the same has, especially in the early stages of the procedure, when it is more exposed to the avenging fury of its torturer, that - all the data tell us - in most cases is a person related to the victim itself, as also the very recent facts of Savona have demonstrated. We must look at the victim, but also at the abusive man, at his incredible difficulty in dealing with the feminine freedom of a woman who is finally free to choose her own life. It is, therefore, a complex discourse, in which a non-secondary role is played by cultural factors, just as on the other hand one tries - with insistence - to reclaim the strength of women in the private sphere alone. It is not enough, therefore, an approach that deals only with safety, but we need long-term policies that already intervene from the school and that form the teachers and all the professionalities that face the cases of violence: magistrates, doctors, psychologists and social workers. Therefore, not only police forces, which, although they play a decisive role in collecting news of crime, in this measure - I want to stress with great pain - are not addressed to any resource. During the previous parliamentary term, the Democratic Party put the issue of combating gender violence at the heart of its political agenda. We claim this with pride, also because never in the history of the Italian Republic has there been a strong regulatory intervention such as that prepared by the Governments led by the Democratic Party. By law no. 77 of 27 June 2013, Italy was among the first European countries to ratify the Istanbul Convention, the first legally binding international instrument that protects women against any form of violence. Several other measures have been taken: the Decree-Law of 14 August 2013, No. 93, which introduced measures to combat violence, infuriating penalties; legal aid for victims; the absolute priority in the formation of hearing roles and in the treatment of sexual crimes. We have introduced the option for the victim of sexual violence to request the transfer to another public administration or, again, leave for a maximum period of three months. We have introduced a ban on demise, dismissal or transfer following sexual harassment or, again, with the 2018 budget law, a contribution to social cooperatives employing women who are victims of violence, because it is the perspective of free, working and self-employed life that must be given to these women. We then intervened in a particularly strong way in the matter of persecutory acts (the so-called stalking), allowing interceptions and arranging the application of anti-mafia measures of personal and patrimonial prevention also to suspects of such crime. We have endowed Italy, the first country in Europe, with a specific discipline to protect orphans of domestic crimes, on which, however, I signal a lack of funding. Mr President, I shall conclude by pointing out that we have always backed up active policies with law enforcement policies and that we have therefore approached the draft law under discussion today with a collaborative approach, without prejudice, in the belief that oppositions can and should always contribute. From this point of view, our amending proposals should be read, with which we have also tried to raise the various concerns raised during the hearings, in particular those relating to Article 2. It is the central provision of this measure, which requires the prosecutor to hear within three days the victims of alleged ill-treatment in the family. However, our amendments have been rejected. The same is true of all the others who wanted to give the offended party a more active role. In the face of some obvious shortcomings, we have tried to propose changes aimed at integrating the new cases in a more precise way, bearing in mind the pain and complex existential situations that are the basis of the request for regulatory action. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, we have come up against a wall: the demands of propaganda, the need to place yet another flag have led to the background, not only the technical rigour and the consideration of the findings of the valuable hearings of professionals of the highest level, but also the lives of women and their suffering. Nothing further from what should have done a good policy, but we know that this majority and this government are only capable of building immediate consensus, small fires of straw that constantly need to be fueled by propaganda and weapons of mass distraction. This has happened this time on the skin of women, to the detriment of their more effective and rigorous protection. That is not surprising either, ladies and gentlemen. There are infinite and continuous examples of the little or no consideration that this Government and its majority have of female dignity and gender equality. Just think of the bill on shared foster care, which still sees MoVimento 5 Stars and League united in the promotion of a family model in which the woman is subordinate. As an example, the Minister of the Interior, who, while filling his mouth with pitiful and condescending words, is not careful to give to his followers every figure of free woman, strong and free from pressure, letting it be covered with violent and sexist insults. Violence against women feeds on a cultural climate that has much, too much to do with the drift that public debate has been taking for a year now, with the growing and undisputed use of a language of hatred. If the moderation of language and the contrast to violent and sexist expressions and actions do not come from politics itself, from the representatives of the citizens and from the members of the government, with what credibility can we adopt rules such as those under discussion? For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot agree to the draft law in question and we submit to the House our observations and our concerns, together with the amendments which we do not approve in the Commission, which we trust will help us to debate, with the sole aim of improving the draft law by making it more consistent with the specific requirements for the protection of women who are victims of violence. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u18	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u19	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women, according to the 1993 United Nations Declaration, consists of any act of gender-based violence that causes or may cause physical, sexual or psychological harm to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether it occurs in public or private life. By applying this definition, the United Nations has identified a very large number of forms of violence against women with which our society serves to have to live together: violence inflicted by partners; harmful traditional practices, including female mutilation and genital cutting; female infanticide and prenatal sexual selection; early marriage; forced marriage; dowry-related violence; crimes against women committed for "honor"; mistreatment of widows; feminicide; sexual violence by non-partners; sexual harassment and violence in the workplace, educational institutions and sport; trafficking in women. However, the phenomenon we are dealing with is difficult to measure in reality, because it is largely submerged. Very often it is carried out through violence within the family, more difficult to declare and denounce; situations in which the woman feels alone having to face a drama that, if brought out, would also upset the balance of life of other loved ones. As noted by Istat, given the complexity of the emotional and psychological reactions that develop as a result of violence, be it episodic or continued over time, the cover-up of the crimes that describe it is very high and for this reason it is not possible only to consider the sources of administrative nature for its knowledge, except for the data on the murders of women. In fact, Istat, together with CNR, has continued to identify criteria for detecting this phenomenon and - as shown by a recent hearing in the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide - is about to publish a very specific and comprehensive report that will serve to better frame the phenomenon. For this reason, Istat and CNR must certainly be praised. At European level, the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention of 2011, defines violence against women based on gender as "any direct violence against a woman as such," or which affects women in a disproportionate way. Finally, at international level, the monitoring entrusted to Grevio (Group of Experts on Violence against Women of the Council of Europe), for the evaluation of the effective application of the Istanbul Convention and the scientific commitment of the EIGE (European Institute for Gender Equality), for the identification by both of indicators useful for the measurement of gender violence in European countries. In Italy, the so-called Femicide Act (Law No 119 of 2013), which was prepared following the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, provided for the adoption of an extraordinary plan against gender sexual violence, as well as a series of measures in the criminal field. The first plan, lasting two years, was adopted in 2015 and financed with about 40 million euros, but only half of it was actually used. In 2018, 31 million were financed. Undersecretary Spadafora, present in the Chamber, has just updated us on the next strategic plan, which is finally being approved, which should begin to be implemented shortly, and provides for 37 million euros: a figure in slight increase - and this is positive - divided between specific interventions (7 million) and one of a more general character of 30 million, on which the Government will report shortly. The bill today under examination of the Senate reproduces, instead, the text approved by the Chamber last April 3, amending that of initiative of the Government on the so-called red code. There is an obligation for the prosecutor to hear within three days the victims of alleged family abuse, sexual violence, persecuting acts and related crimes. The text should therefore be approved without amendment to enter into force before the summer. In the 2013 law on so-called feminicide, a preferential lane for such proceedings was already foreseen and the bill now intends to strengthen them, even if the three-day period is merely authorising and not peremptory, since no consequence is expected linked to the possible non-compliance with the deadline. The measure also deals with the penal code, the code of procedure, the so-called anti-mafia code and the penitentiary system. The main points have already been mentioned and I will skip them to be brief. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the text approved by the Chamber has absorbed the legislative proposals of similar tenor, including the one at the first signature of Ms Giusi Bartolozzi, who repeatedly insisted during the examination in the Committee on Justice to highlight the commitment made on the issue of gender violence by several Members of the Forza Italia Group, starting with colleagues Carfagna and Prestigiacomo, who have been fighting for a long time in defense of women who have been victims of violence. The majority was questioned about wanting to set up a widely shared battle, as was demonstrated by the vote in this House on the amendments. The Commission's decision not to set up a restricted committee to draw up a unified text and to base the Government's bill was also contested. However, two good results have been obtained by the Forza Italia Group in reading in the Chamber of Deputies. The first is the introduction in the text of the crime of the so-called revenge porn, porn revenge, proposed by Forza Italia. The majority had to accept the intervention to counter the spread of videos or images with sexually explicit content intended to remain private without the consent of the persons represented. The second result was the introduction, again thanks to two amendments signed by Ms Carfagna, of the rules against forced marriages and the use of the Rotation Fund for solidarity with the victims of crime of the mafia type, for scholarships for orphans of domestic crimes and for measures of support and economic aid in favour of foster families. At the Senate of the Republic, in the Justice Commission, Mr Caliendo, on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, voted in favour, criticizing the contrary opinion on certain amendments constantly expressed by the rapporteurs, who, in our opinion, should have expressed different assessments and subsequent determinations. Leaving to my fellow signatories (Caliendo, Modena, Dal Mas, Rizzotti, Conzatti) the most specific presentation of the amendments, I would point out that in the group of those already submitted to the Commission - which were not accepted and retabled for examination in this House - there are several signed by me as a member of the Commission for the investigation of the phenomenon of feminicide established in this parliamentary term. These amendments are the result of the Commission's work experience over the last few months on the basis of numerous meetings and hearings, but also of the excellent work done by such a Commission in its previous term of office. It is a pity, in this regard, that the majority did not consider it necessary or at least appropriate to make them their own, perhaps because of the usual haste to prefer an image result on a greater legal substance. President, ladies and gentlemen, over 600 feminicides have been registered in our country in the last four years. The vast majority of them have been defined primitive for the execution modalities. It is time to say enough and to show that the legislator's response will not further allow some members of our society to violate fundamental human rights, inalienable, at the basis of life, freedom and security and, in a word, to attack the same humanity of our kind with violence on women. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u20	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u21	Mr President, I would like to start with a premise: I will not speak as President of the Senate's Committee of Inquiry in this debate, in which I will make a few comments, as I will not speak in this debate. I will do so out of fairness to the Commission and the Commissioners, because we have chosen to maintain a cross-cutting profile and continue to work, over the months before us, with absolute serenity. In fact, we have realised that our positions on this measure are probably quite distant and divergent. I will therefore speak as a senator of the Democratic Party, but I will do so - of course - having had the opportunity to look from a privileged observatory at the phenomenon at 360 degrees, to speak with subjects who dedicate life, passion and professionalism to the topic under consideration. I start from a simple observation: this was a very much announced measure by the relevant ministers, which was five; a measure which led to a challenging debate in the Chamber of Deputies, during which there were also important convergences, which led to significant changes in the text. This is a very ambitious measure already in the title: Amendments to the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and other provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender-based violence. For consistency and sincerity I must first make a remark: I believe that our country currently has a satisfactory and important regulatory framework to combat the phenomenon of gender violence. I believe that we should all start from this fact, in order to be aware that any intervention we are thinking about must really be aimed at changing how much can still be improved. I say this with sincerity and frankness: I think that surely the intentions of those who thought the measure under consideration, apart from the discourse on good faith or bad faith, were good. This is probably the reason why we tried to improve the bill, we have never closed and never approached the measure in question with prejudice, but we have always entered into the substance. The measure wants to change the regulatory framework. However, I would like to remind everyone briefly that in recent years we have changed the regulatory framework many times and have changed it considerably for the better. Only in the 1980s did we still have the crime of honor and at the end of the year Ninety sexual violence was violence against morals and not against the person. Basically in twenty years we have built a normative system, in an absolutely transversal way, starting from the crime of stalking, introduced by the governments of center-right, in order to pass to the very important measures launched by the government of centro-left, from the ratification of the Istanbul Convention - several times obviously recalled - to the decree-law on feminicide, without forgetting the anti-mafia code - it contains important preventive measures, which we have extended, even forcing the hand, in some cases, scientifically and voluntarily, because we thought it useful to do so - until we reach the measure on orphans of feminicide, of which so much has been discussed and of which the implementing regulation is still expected. This is to say that today we have an important regulatory framework: let us always remember, because the energies we spend must be aimed not so much at changing the regulatory framework further, but at making the existing one work, which - we should always remind ourselves - walks thanks to the professionalism, sensitivity, specialization, mentality and culture of the men and women of the country: this, probably, sometimes we forget it. I believe that the risk that is still taking place and I see in front of us, within this measure, is essentially this. Personally, I have spent, as a senator, along with my Group, trying to change the measure under consideration, presenting amendments only and exclusively of merit, never obstructive - I say it with pride - never biased and never prejudiced. Unfortunately, I have to say to the Government and the House that there has not been a single response to merit within the Justice Commission, not even once. [[Applause from the PD Group]] No one has ever bothered to answer and explain why an amendment was not sustainable or wrong. I believe that this is an attitude that, apart from the strong proclamations and announcements, which perhaps make us conquer some newspaper headlines in the immediate future, makes us speak to the belly of our voters and perhaps help us to collect a little' consent, does not render a good service neither to Debora, nor to the many women who have been killed or to those who are brutally raped every day, from so many points of view. We leave this issue out of propaganda, but also out of political controversy. I see Mr Spadafora present in this House - we had him here in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide - whom I thank for his sensitivity. I must say that I did not appreciate the polemics that have characterized your statements in this House and then your choice to withdraw the press conference: in essence, a political polemic within the majority. But the political controversy has also come from the majority towards the opposition, the previous majority of the Government: I would really ask, in a heartfelt way, to leave the political controversy out of such matters, which instead require sensitivity, attention, delicacy, coherence and sometimes also courage, for which we must always remain on the merit of the discussion. I really do come to the credit. I spoke before about a regulatory framework which, however, did not change the state of things. We should then ask ourselves why and I said it before: to change the culture of a country is never enough in itself a good law, never alone, and always needs a support, a cultural change, a choral sharing of reading of the phenomenon. It must be society as a whole that condemns this phenomenon and we are unfortunately still far from that goal, from that objective. Today we are faced with a phenomenon that unfortunately continues to grow exponentially, to become more aggressive. Everyone says so, and the data proves it. We must not forget, then, that it is transversal: North and South, center and periphery, Italian and foreign. Let's not talk about that, too, please. It affects all social classes in a cross-cutting way. Unfortunately, it is a dramatic phenomenon. But - attention - however dramatic, it is a phenomenon not emerging, but structural, because cultural, anchored to a culture unfortunately stratified and deeply rooted in the country. It is therefore a structural and not a private phenomenon, although it is consumed within the domestic walls; it is a public phenomenon, because it questions good policy and calls it to give answers. We should have approached with this awareness. Unfortunately, the measure does not attack the gap between a satisfactory regulatory framework and the data that give us, instead, a growing violence. Let us look at the answers you have tried to give. Some are just but insufficient, and I give concrete examples. On the agreement between civil proceedings and criminal and juvenile proceedings, although requested, the Supreme Council of the judiciary - as it was presented - also gave a negative opinion and considered it insufficient. As far as the formation of the Forces of Order is concerned, it is a measure of financial invariance: all the good intentions of this world, but tell me what can a measure of financial invariance do? I'm asking you. Is this not a propaganda rule? I'm really asking you. [[Applause from the PD Group]] New crimes, such as revenge porn, are instituted; the facial injury, which essentially deprives a woman of her identity or, again, forced marriages: these are measures for which the Democratic Party had presented autonomous bills. So, how can we not say that these are absolutely positive interventions? We thought we could improve, supplement, strengthen, but there was no way, even in the absence of a deadline, because it was not a decree-law. We do not understand why: it was simply a no foreword, unlike our approach, which was not a foreword, and of course we can only take note of this with deep regret. If this were to continue in this House too, and if such an opportunity and availability were not to be seized in the last few hours, this would be a great wasted opportunity. Again: banning the balancing of circumstances in some cases is fine. We have pointed out to you, however, that you leave it in some assumptions that we feel wrong; even then we have not been able to reason. These are the opportunities that could represent right intuitions, but not enough. Then there is the main rule of the provision, relating to the three days. In this regard, a number of specialised operators, such as Magistrate Roia and Prosecutor Maria Monteleone, have expressed their views on this matter, as well as lawyers and representatives of the anti-violence centres. Everyone in the Commission has said that the three-day forecast, as formulated, is dangerous, because it undermines the effectiveness of the investigations, risks the secondary victimization of women, affects their vulnerability, denies specialization, which is absolutely necessary. We can clog prosecutors and judicial offices without having the opportunity to treat the phenomenon as we ask. What is the need to maintain this system without stopping at all? Someone said that we are facing a risk of cultural regression. Some columnist said that today is not a good time to be a girl. I want to hope that this is not the case, but I feel the deep risk that unfortunately this is a dramatic truth, because languages, stereotypes and prejudices, deeply rooted, unfortunately also belong today to a piece of political class. I say to you: I beg you, in relation to this, to stop you, because there will be no provision and norm of the penal code or criminal procedure that will put you hand, if the cultural context of regression, prejudices, stereotypes that offers a model of inequality between men and women, of relationship between men and women, remains what we have. If you are basically far from the facts in your words, this measure will do nothing and even risk being dangerous and harmful to women who are victims of violence. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating this measure because we must give an answer to all those women (adults, young people, minors) who are most vulnerable, who suffer and need to be defended. That's why we're here. On the instruments for doing so we may not agree completely, we can compare, we can turn the debate on and we can also raise the tone. However, we must give an answer. And every one of us must take the responsibility today to give that response to the people involved, without any perplexity. If the health, physical and psychic integrity and dignity of women are not guaranteed, our role as parliamentarians, citizens and - allow me - men has failed. Today can be a historic date, because it can be the day when the State stops helping the tragedies and dramas unarmed and begins to exercise its prerogatives in full; a day on which we affirm with the vow that the sacrifices of too many women have not been completely in vain. For this reason I invite you to extinguish the flame of controversy and perhaps say yes, instead of always saying no; to ensure that tomorrow life for women is a little easier and a little more serene and especially for those women who live in fear, all too often generated by known hands; women who are subject to threats, who suffer frustration and violence, who see their image raped by unscrupulous men, by men - I say as a man - of whom I am ashamed. Unfortunately, we are heirs of a history of enormous conditioning, as St. John Paul II reminded us in a wonderful letter; conditions that in all times and in every latitude have made difficult the path of the woman, have misrepresented her prerogatives and have often marginalized her and even reduced her into slavery, preventing her from being to the bottom of herself and at the same time impoverishing the whole humanity of the wealth that only she can give. It is not enough and the debates, demonstrations and even the laws will not suffice to cancel these conditionings; alone it is not enough and the testimony, the education and the courage will not suffice. But certainly we cannot miss our vote - this is the answer we need - the vote on a measure that was born on the initiative of the Government, especially the ministers Bongiorno and Bonafede, and found the broad collaboration of many political forces of majority and opposition and the support of foundations, associations, groups that deal with the fight against feminicide, exploitation and violence, against forced marriages, against the revenge porn and that I also want to thank for the work of support and assistance they do every day. Colleagues and colleagues, to the monsters whose news reports give us back portraits, we cannot spare anything. Let's make the strength of the state prevent their perverse actions. With this measure we tighten the penalties for the crimes of sexual violence; we introduce the crimes of revenge porn and facial rubbing, the latter punished with fourteen years of imprisonment. At last we inaugurate a preferential lane for those who suffer in silence - this is the real novelty - which will then lead offended people to be heard immediately within three days. What a straw fire! We prevent early and forced marriages from taking place, close by deception and overwhelming, and I would like to thank Mr Stefani, who is present in this House today, for the first battle he has waged in the last parliamentary term. After voting, let us not forget what we should do tomorrow. Let us not forget to listen, watch, educate, try to prevent and suppress. Let's not let any more years go by before the state realizes something's wrong. In the meantime, we can also provide tools to the operators of the state, better tools to help those who suffer. Let's do it with conviction, without instrumental polemics. This is a war not against someone, but in defense of those who suffer. [[Applause from the M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u24	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u25	Mr President, the first thing I thought when I read the provisions of this draft law was to link the rules contained in it to facts that I knew of the chronicle of my territory. Then the question I asked myself is whether these new rules could or could avoid those episodes that ended up in the black pages of newspapers and news. It is difficult to give a clear opinion, a certain answer, but surely these rules represent a further step towards the most appropriate identification of criminal rules in the criminal ritual of these very hateful cases in harm to women, but above all to girls. Women are increasingly the weakest subject: easy to strike and difficult to defend. Therefore, an ever better clarification of the criminal penalty system will probably not reduce the crime, but will help the victims to better protect themselves. We need a huge cultural step forward and - if you will - at the top, that values women as an increasingly indispensable subject for the growth of our society. However, it is necessary to establish some very serious attitudes against women and it is important to do so in order to help create that culture of respect for women, because it is precisely with those cases of news that we must confront ourselves. In Molfetta, seven years ago, a 14-year-old girl was hunted by eight young people (half of whom were underage), dragged inside the amphitheatre and abused by four of them. This episode was denounced with six months of serious delay, during which the persecutions on the street of the pack continued just as if nothing serious had happened. There were two trials: the first, for the adult, ended in first instance with four years and two months of conviction and a providential of 50,000 euros never paid; the other, for the minors, with a sentence of two years and nine months, to have the youngest assisted impassible to the violence. The fourth young man, on the other hand, served two years of testing where he volunteered. In this case, the word "scounted" seems totally inadequate. Certainly, that kind of punishment is not a deterrent: it is not a punishment that causes a young person to understand the seriousness of the gesture committed; and it is not for the culprit and not even for some of his peers who might consider that violence a fact considered not serious. (17.45) (Following MINUTE). This is why this bill, which today complements sanctions and identifies in its full gravity certain acts of violence against women, can mark a further step forward. Now the penalty for group violence - for example - is being increased and there is the office procedure for sexual acts with minors. Certainly the regulatory framework is improved, but there are still no rules identifying the right compensation. Appropriate support for victims is still missing. Above all, more support is needed for families less equipped from a cultural point of view, perhaps poorer, and for all those most in need. I would like to refer to another fact of the news, which occurred in my city a short time ago, which concerned the spread of sexual images on social networks without the victim's consent. The young girl was filmed by her boyfriend, without consent, during a sexual act and the boyfriend himself put the video on the net and that video was transmitted by another subject to the students, accompanied by offensive writings about the girl. Protagonists and victims are underage. The two defendants saw the crime extinguished before the court for the minors of Bari, after a trial course of one and a half years, through the usual volunteering course. The girl has not received any compensation in criminal proceedings and she will now have to try to have it in the civil court. On this second point the bill to our attention introduces the appropriate crime of illicit dissemination of sexually explicit images or videos. Moreover, the contrast to the so-called revenge porn is precisely a proposal of my political side, which on the subject, both in the House and in the Senate, has shown great sensitivity. The improvements to legislation to protect victims of violence are many and widespread in a regulatory fabric that fortunately goes more and more By completing. I repeat, however, that, taking inspiration from the rules concerning violence against children, we must start from schools and teach children the seriousness of certain attitudes, integrating school teaching hours with education and awareness of the issues in question. The rules and seriousness of some attitudes must be taught to children to make them aware of what they do and what they do not have to do. The teaching and awareness of where the boundary between the lawful and the unrighteous is the best example to avoid the repetition of episodes of violence and oppression towards girls, especially the younger ones. This is also the most conscious way to prevent children from practicing violence against women once they become adults. In conclusion, the intentions of the bill are good to our examination, which introduces the so-called red code, but unfortunately they do not coincide with reality. In the Italian Code of Criminal Procedure, if there is no sanction for non-compliance with an obligation imposed by the norm, it is as if the obligation did not exist. Let me give a trivial example: if there is a double-row parking ban and I keep parking in double-row, if I do not get a fine and apply a penalty, I will continue to park in double-row. Similarly, if the public prosecutor does not comply on the days provided for in the norm, as indicated in the code red, the public prosecutor will also have to be sanctioned. That's the only way we can take serious steps. We at Forza Italia will probably present a draft law in the future on this matter, because we have to solve these problems. When I listen to the mothers of the girls involved, I shudder and have no answers to give them, when we are here to give them. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u26	I take the opportunity to say that the Movimento 5 Star Group has reported that members to talk about the same Group have nine minutes at their disposal. In fact, I would like to warn my colleagues that this is an indicative time and - as provided for in the Rules of Procedure - they are entitled to speak for ten minutes, although the Group has indicated nine in advance. She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women is any act of violence based on gender which causes physical, psychological or sexual harm or suffering to women, including threats, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of freedom. The scourge of gender violence is not only social but also cultural. Fifteen years ago, for the first time, the term "feminicide" was used to frame, from a sociological point of view, the murder committed against a woman as a gender violence, such as a murder against a woman perpetrated as a woman, as a criminal act committed by man as a result of the lack of physical or psychological subjection of the victim; psychological harassment, economic blackmail, threats, sexual harassment, persecution by a man against a woman as a woman; actions almost always repeated over time, carried out by men very different from each other by age, social condition, level of education, nationality, religion; not by monsters and usually not even by strangers: partners and former partners perform more frequently all the forms of physical violence detected and are responsible for the majority of rapes. As shown by official statistics and numerous requests for help from victims of domestic violence, stalking or sexual abuse at the appropriate listening centres located on national territory, this is a growing phenomenon. The last episode was about a woman, Debora. Training, awareness and awareness-raising must be the three pillars on which to build a new society that can guarantee women a life free from violence and discrimination. It is no longer acceptable for one in three women in Italy to suffer some form of physical, sexual and psychological violence, from those considered to be less serious - at least to the extent that they do not involve permanent harm - to those in which mortal aggression is achieved. The killer doesn't knock, he has the keys to the house.It was the chilling phrase but most truthful that could be read at a demonstration a few years ago. It is no longer acceptable that prior to such tragedies there be an underestimating of the risk or a lack of knowledge of the centres to be addressed by the victim or, again, a failure by the competent structures or institutions, or Forces of order. To reverse the course, it is necessary to build a unique network of law enforcement agencies, magistrates, social workers, doctors, voluntary associations, information workers, educators, families and psychologists to protect women who are victims of violence. In order to combat this scourge, which sees the whole of society as a victim, it is necessary to act in terms of prevention first of all cultural, starting from the awareness in the schools and then to arrive at the repression and the harsh penalties. The draft law under consideration has these principles; it is a fundamental part of the preventive fight against the phenomenon of gender violence called, precisely, code red, as in hospital when we go for an emergency: now, when a woman decides with great effort and enormous courage to turn to the State and ask for help, perhaps in order to denounce a domestic violence suffered, she needs to have a preferential lane. The staff member or the public official, having received the complaint, shall immediately inform the public prosecutor without any discretion as to the assessment of the urgency or not. He will then have an obligation within three days to listen to the complainant, just as the judicial police will have to give top priority to the investigation. It is certainly important to introduce, in article 7, paragraph 1, the crime of deformation of appearance by permanent facial injuries, which will involve a scientific observation of personality equal to one year and to this will also achieve the issue of premium benefits only after a minimum of one year. It is important that justice is perceived by citizens as an area in which the State invests and meets even before the crime is committed. I would like to end my speech by appealing to all women who are victims of abuse, inviting them to denounce their vexators. Do not be afraid: the State is stronger today than any violence you have suffered and is now at your side with every means at its disposal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u28	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u29	Mr President, the measure before this House takes place in a very complex and sensitive area, such as that of domestic and gender abuse and violence, to try to sew up spaces for a network of regulatory forecasts that have followed in the years - intensified since the 1990s - all aimed at overcoming a legal model that relegated violence and discrimination against women in an area of protection too small and marginal compared to the more general protection of the rights of the person. It was therefore necessary to overcome that cultural approach, even before legislation, which does not recognise equality between men and women in family, work and social relations. During the last parliamentary term, we paid a great deal of attention to this issue. We have ratified the Istanbul Convention, which qualifies violence against women as a violation of human rights. We then intervened with Decree-Law No 93 of 14 August 2013 to protect children who attend the violence in the family and orphans of feminicide, in the process, as well as in the matter of hereditary succession. These are issues that - in our opinion - increasingly need constant monitoring in relation to the effectiveness of the rules introduced, but also the support and contribution of professionals who, in the different skills, are now concerned with violence and gender abuse, to be trained and specialized: from judges, anti-violence centres, to other forms of protection and prevention. From this point of view, Mr President, the draft law No 1200, which is a government initiative, in our view - it has already been said - could have been more clearly coordinated with the work we are doing in the parliamentary committee of inquiry into feminicide and all forms of gender-based violence, in order to incorporate those amendments which would undoubtedly enrich and supplement the framework proposed by the Government. This - I fear - will lead to the need to put in hand the legal system introduced as incomplete and ineffective. On the substance, the bill, with its 21 articles, intervenes on the code of criminal procedure, in order to speed up the establishment of criminal proceedings and accelerate the possible adoption of protection of victims and the formation of evidence. The measure introduces new cases of crime that we have shared, in particular against the illicit spread of sexually explicit images or videos, aggravated personal injuries and deformation of the appearance of the person by permanent facial injuries, also on the furrow of our specific bill. In the same way, it is our proposal, presented since the last legislature, for the introduction of the crime of forced and early marriage, which is becoming dangerously established also in our territory, when marriage combined becomes forced, dragging young women into situations of violence and risk of early pregnancy, ill-treatment, physical submission and moral blackmail of social exclusion and isolation, but also of death. This was the fate of young students forcibly brought back to the countries of origin and killed, because they were not obedient, at the hands of brothers and fathers. For this reason our proposal provided for major penalties and related ancillary penalties much stricter for a crime that hides within itself, in addition to coercion, sexual violence and the abuse of brides girls. We are talking about children who suffer the direct or collateral damage of violence in the family; children of sick relationships fed by anger and brutality; victims of a love that is not there, or assisted violence, in the presence of children in 82 percent of cases. It is a chain of hatred that risks to feed itself infinitely and that it is necessary to interrupt, starting from a strong social condemnation and the repudiation of a language that makes normal what is normal not; words that denigrate women on social media, on the printed paper, in court rooms; words of journalists, as of any man, but also language of politicians, a language not only discriminatory, but offensive and degrading, that the social network amplifies, risking to certify as normal and common use the insult against women, symptom of a dangerous sexist drift. In this context, we agree with the attempt to eliminate that risk area which is represented for the woman who denounces the time between the acquisition of the news of crime and the subsequent application of a coercive measure, but above all those measures that allow women to stay in their homes, rather than having to escape and seek protection. These times, therefore, must necessarily be compressed. However, serious concerns remain about the effectiveness of the obligation to question the victim within the three-day period, when many judicial offices, especially minors, do not have personal, in particular specialised, facilities. For this reason we believed that the inclusion in the role with priority and protected treatment methods was the subject to be defined with greater attention, in addition to the need for timely action compared to the coercive measure of removal and compulsory arrest, even in the absence of flagranty, with necessary arrests and sanctions, moreover, for those who violate the measures of prevention and removal, because without sanction there is no obligation and there is no protection. So there are still spaces to fill. I would also have liked to see the proposal first signed by me approved in the matter of procedure to extend to a year the current six-month period within which a woman can file a complaint for violence suffered. This prediction, which would not have prevented immediate action, would have guaranteed the right to justice even when the time had passed when the pain of the damage suffered, shame and loneliness did not leave the victim the strength to turn anger into legal action. Today more women denounce and try to get out of the invisibility, but the central theme remains the protection of children who suffer or witness violence in the family. The conflict of separation often conceals contrasts and violence, to be recognized and brought out. That is why we share the view that civil proceedings are linked to criminal proceedings, in the interests of children and in the definition of parental responsibility. The crimes of violence against women - and I conclude - increase, while the number of crimes in general decreases: a symptom that there is still a lot of ground on which as legislators we are called to continue to engage in the protection of women, because this too is security to which the State cannot abdicate. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are debating a measure which: It amends the penal code, the criminal procedure code and other provisions on the protection of victims of domestic and gender-based violence. I would like to add 'without distinction of gender', as I will explain in my speech. In fact, this measure, which was fired by the Chamber of Deputies on 3 April, with a consensus then substantial, saw the introduction of four new criminal cases; among them, in particular, the so-called revenge porn stands out at the moment, namely the non consensual dissemination of images pertaining to the intimate and private sphere, as well as other crimes such as the one relating to the prohibition of approach, the nature of which is absolutely questionable because it contains in itself the violation of a precautionary rule, and the criminal procedure code already tells us what to do, what the judicial authority can do when the precautionary measure is violated. Then we have the introduction of the crime of deformation of the appearance of the person by permanent injuries, which exacerbates figures like the permanent scarring to the face. In our system there are already figures or crimes that evidently recall it, but the legislator, through a large majority, felt that it was necessary to introduce Article 583-d. In addition, the Code of Criminal Procedure will be amended in order to speed up proceedings. The hearings of prosecutors, lawyers, experts and legal practitioners of the various associations that we have conducted have highlighted certain dangers or pitfalls inherent in this legislation: for example, the issue of the three days, namely the obligation to hear, by the prosecutor, the person offended or the person victim, within three days of the registration of the news of crime, which clearly exposes, given the particularity and the type of cases we are talking about, the persons offended or the victims to possible risks or potential aggravated of their situation. There is one issue which, in my opinion, has not been sufficiently explored. In the face of a tetragonal attitude of the majority, which rejected all the amendments of Forza Italia, the PD and in general of the oppositions, we have invited you to reflect on the difference in treatment between the first and second paragraphs of Article 612-b of the new introduction. I am referring to the distinction between the first distribution of prohibited non-consensual images and the second distribution, for which you even foresee the specific dole. The prediction of the specific dole strengthens in us the conviction that this prediction can be an easy escape for those who contribute to spreading these images on the Net, on the web, on social media. The effect could therefore be contrary - there is no certainty or evidence of case studies - to the spirit which suggested the introduction of this case. Again with regard to Article 612-b, there is an issue on which we have proposed a specific amendment, namely that we have noticed that there is no special circumstance when minors are victims. On this the doubt has come to us because there is a safeguard clause in the norm, when it is said "except that the fact constitutes more serious crime," but the Cassation has recently established that the image entered into the Network by the same minor, as happens in the vast majority of cases, constitutes only the least serious hypothesis referred to in article 600-b, third paragraph, that of child pornography, that in this case would be absorbed in the first paragraph of the new article 612-b. So there is no fact of the matter when the victim is a minor: this is because, in the rush on the thrust that there was to introduce this problem into the House, it probably did not reflect adequately on some aspects. It is clear that the very good prediction of a rule that affects these behaviors runs the risk of being, to the effects, ineffective. There is a very complicated theme that concerns the responsibilities that exist in the world of the Network, the so-called providers and the diffusion of these images that unfortunately do not know oblivion and the provision that we go to lay off does not allow to introduce tools to stop what enters the network. The striking cases, therefore, like those of poor Tiziana Cantone are destined to be neglected by the provision, because it is true that we intervene by providing for a new criminal case and that we tighten the sanctions, but it is also true that in the context of the provision we do not link all aspects of the criminal procedure that we go to modify with the same article 612-b, because you approved it later in the House. We have also told you in the Commission that you must provide for the extension and coordination of this rule. The question of liability is not secondary. It cannot be a preventive responsibility of those who control the Network, of those who control a blog, that is, of those who have the responsibility for uploading. The Supreme Court has told us that this is not possible, but an interesting case law has recently been produced, which I would like to mention. There is a judgment precisely in the matter of defamation and blogs from which we should start and the legislator should think that there is a void to be filled in order to the responsibilities of the Network, bloggers and providers, situation that generates a difficult control inhibiting, if not later, of facts detrimental to the image. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u32	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a balanced measure: we have had the courage to leave ideologies out of the field and we have aimed at achieving something truly effective for Italian families. It was good, therefore, the choice - which, on the other hand, the oppositions dispute - to reject all the amendments that had a high rate of ideology. The issue is too delicate to turn it into a sterile... male versus female contrast. This is a narrative that comes from a vision imposed on society since Engels. It's not like that. Here we simply have criminals who must be able not to harm and victims who must find proper satisfaction. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We therefore reject to the sender the accusations that are being made by the opposition and, in particular, by the Democratic Party. Dear friends of the Democratic Party, I know perfectly well that some cultures have an idea of a woman who is diametrically opposed to ours. They are precisely those cultures that we try to stop and that, instead, you introduce in Italy with boats, boats, barchini, ships and so on. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Those who use violence do not do so, as I said earlier, because they are male or because they are female, but because they are criminals. Let us enter into the substance of the measure. The first argument that convinces me is the imposition of a clear three-day deadline that the prosecutor must respect in order to meet the victim of the crime. The term is very good, in our opinion, for two reasons. First, because it meets the needs of the victim, who feels welcomed, feels considered and finds the State at his side, which makes itself visible in the person of the prosecutor. Moreover, this is also a strong deterrent to the criminal, to the culprit, because he knows that this process will follow a particularly accelerated course and this will certainly help to dissuade the committee of these serious crimes. However, the encounter so rapid with the public prosecutor also captures another objective, that is to discourage a phenomenon that is unfortunately quite widespread in our country and that is equally serious, that is, that of false accusations. The fact that the complainant is immediately subject to the scrutiny of the public charge can further help to discern, with sufficient speed, those that risk being false accusations and that unfortunately, as I repeat, have been reported in many cases as numerous, even in our country. I would like to give an example very close to those subcultures we were talking about earlier: in the measure there is a clear and decisive position of the State against the crime of constraint to marriage, to stop the phenomenon of the so-called brides girls. On this I must say that the tireless work of the President of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, Stefania Pucciarelli, has certainly found in the draft law under consideration a worthy framework. It is very significant that a phenomenon so abundant in numerical terms - at planetary level we are talking about 12 million girls, of minors who are forced to marry each year - still today, in Italy, it has no monitoring whatsoever. We do not know how many minors in Italy are forced to marry and therefore to intervene effectively, using the instrument of criminal leverage, is absolutely necessary. Another phenomenon that the legislation before us sets itself the objective of cutting it off is that of revenge porn and this measure also meets our absolute favor. The fact that up to six years of imprisonment are imposed on anyone who spreads images, which have been collected in the intimacy of people, so in a moment of great trust and also of great fragility, which are then used to hurt others and to strike them in their dignity, is something that, as we have appreciated in cases of recent news, unfortunately has devastating effects on people's lives. Last but not least, I would like to recall the fact that one of our parliamentary colleagues from the House of Deputies has been involved, to whom all our solidarity goes. It is very important to reiterate that the rule we are talking about and that we are about to approve also intervenes on the issue of evictions. Among other things, this is an issue that, more than the others, does not know a specific attribution from the point of view of the genre, because we know that women and men are affected in equal measure: I remember, for example, the case of Giuseppe Morgante or the famous case of Gessica Notaro. The fact of bringing from eight to fourteen years of imprisonment the penalty for episodes of such seriousness and unprecedented violence, which mark a person for life, is certainly a very qualifying aspect of the legislation under consideration. I also very much welcome the obligation for the prosecutor to communicate when the attacker has been released: such communication must be made to the victim, so that he can operate everything necessary to make himself safe again. On the other hand, it is equally useful to predict that all acts will be forwarded to the civil court, which is deciding the cause of separation or divorce. However, this already happens normally, because it is the lawyers who produce them in court, but the fact that there must be an official transmission is certainly positive. Personally, I am not convinced, however, by Article 4 of the draft law that we are about to adopt and that I will still vote, but that I hope it will be re-examined in the future. It is the establishment of the new crime of violation of the precautionary measure; this is because the precautionary measures as such are already subject to the regime of Article 276 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and therefore they already find of course their worsening, which reaches to the protective custody in prison, when a less grievous measure is violated; both, and even more, because the most grievous measures - I am thinking of house arrests - already provide for a criminal penalty in the crime referred to in Article 385 of the Criminal Code, which is the crime of evasion. Loading a precautionary measure also of a criminal penalty in the case of its violation seems to me to be an unjustified duplication. The application of this rule will tell us if I was right or if the norm, in any case, was fine. In essence, this is a useful and necessary rule that this Parliament must adopt. In conclusion, I also reject to the sender the latest accusations that have been made by the minority rapporteur, who has not missed the opportunity to accuse the Minister of the Interior of Sexism against Carola Rackete, the famous commander of the boat who brought here people against the precise will of our country, violating for three times the "alt" given by the judicial police and a warship. Here, the fact that the Minister of the Interior called that person "delinquent" has nothing to do with sexism, but it simply has to do with criminal law. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and M5S Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u34	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u35	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to spend these ten minutes explaining why, in my opinion, the majority should have used the time to improve the text, not only for what will certainly be said tomorrow in the examination of the amendments, but above all for the contribution that the General Command of the Carabinieri's weapon has made to the Commission, which probably has not been examined with due attention, but which, in my opinion, explains well what is needed in the prevention of so-called feminicide, domestic violence and gender violence. I'm making a very brief premise. This red code was announced by President Conte to the press agencies on 25 November last year; it was presented as a bill to the House on 17 December 2018, approved on 3 April 2019, transmitted to the Senate on 8 April. Then he got stuck - if I may use this term - in the Budget Committee. It took a while to give birth to the opinion with reference to resources and the result is in the eyes of all: a regulation that must be put in place by the legal structures, the PMs and the Forces of order with a clause of economic and financial invariance. Therefore, only the timing and other aspects, on which we will focus tomorrow in the examination of the amendments, are identified as deterrent, but the fact is that for this legislation, which has been bugged to the right and to the left, the financial resources are not there, if the fund for the victims is excluded, thanks to the activity that was carried out in the House by Vice-President Carfagna. Why do I stress the question of the times, besides the economic one? Because the Carabinieri - I come back to talk about what they said in the hearings, because I think it is a fundamental point - have brought their experience. Thanks to an initiative of the Department of Equal Opportunities of 2009 (when there was the Government of center-right and we were the Government together with the friends of the League), a monitoring of the violence perpetrated was entrusted to the Carabinieri Arm. The Carabinieri's weapon has developed, on the basis of this, a listening network and above all a section of persecutor acts, carrying out a monitoring activity, creating a national network of specialized judicial police officers, a vademecum, moments of listening and above all operating procedures that allow, through trained personnel (we speak of 7,500 officers), an immediate approach and intervention. What do the Carabinieri say, who are then the ones a woman addresses? Those of you who have a minimum of experience know very well that, if there is a problem, anyone says to go to the Carabinieri, to make a complaint or to alert them. The Carabinieri, about this law, tell us - of course with great courtesy and I hope that the Assembly and the rapporteurs, tomorrow, will review the text of their statements - that what is needed is above all the implementation of precautelar measures, that is, the urgent removal from the family home, what they call the early protection, which is not achieved by this legislation, since it intervenes when there is the flagrantity of crime. In addition, they consider that this type of measure should take into account trials and what has been done, especially in terms of protecting women, in terms of monitoring cases, because this is an ongoing work which has been done on the ground. I believe that in general discussion a warm invitation must be given to the majority to review a number of passages of this legislation, which presents positive aspects, as we have said, but also aspects which, in the end, risk being exclusively an announcement, a commercial (as is rightly defined). Undersecretary Morrone, who I see always present in the Commission for this work, said that the important thing for the government, which presented this red code, is that things are done. I think that the concept that things should be done is a healthy concept, because in this country it is thought that politics does nothing, but the healthy concept of things done must be accompanied by an adverb, that is, things must be done "well". [[Applause from the FI-BP Group]] If we do something quickly, without there being a chance of making any changes in the Commission, despite important demands (I believe that those of the Arma are among the most important ones at all), it means that we are doing one thing, but we are not doing it well. This is particularly serious with reference to the legislation under discussion, because there was time, that is from the announcement of the President of the Count Council of November to today, which is mid-July, certainly the ways to deepen and improve the text the Senate had them. I therefore conclude my speech with a request that I make with great determination from the institutional point of view of the objectives to be achieved. I would ask the majority forces, who in the Commission have decided to reject all the amendments, to open a debate tomorrow. We have seen horrible maxims in important measures; I think that tomorrow we could see some good amendments, perhaps from the rapporteurs, that rethink some parts of this legislation and the best ones, or simply approve the amendments again tabled in this House that we will always consider tomorrow. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u36	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u37	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the so-called red code, a measure to combat domestic and gender-based violence, that violence perpetrated in most cases against women and minors; that ambiguous violence which very often is overshadowed by that halo of protection and protection of victims by the perpetrators; that violence which is not recognized immediately, because it is exercised on the psyche of the subjects and which comes to form a slavery of actions and thought. The draft law under consideration, which introduces several amendments to the penal code and criminal procedure, provides for a preferential lane for investigations concerning offences of abuse, sexual violence, stalking and injuries committed in family contexts or in the context of cohabitation relations. One of the first novelties introduced by the legislation is that the victim who denounces must be heard by the prosecutor within three days of the registration of the facts denounced in the register of the news of crime. This is an important novelty because even if it is true that the victim needs time to express his or her discomfort, it is equally true that time does not always cure the wounds for the better, but in these cases allows the wounds to heal only to be able to face still and in an unarmed way stronger pains and this is all in favour of the guilty, who take advantage of the time that passes to subject their victims more and more. The rule, taking into account that in some cases speed may not produce good investigative results, has introduced the possibility of derogation in cases of indispensable requirements for the protection of minors or the confidentiality of investigations to protect the person of offense. This derogation must not and cannot be a rule, precisely in order to prevent everything from remaining as it has been so far, with investigations that weaken in the hope that the matter will resolve itself without leading to a drama. With this bill a priority channel is introduced in the phase after the complaint, setting tight and determined times, without the possibility of that wide discretion allowed to operators in the sector (to date not even prepared to deal with certain crimes) to decide which investigation, if and how to give priority. From this moment no investigation can formally close without having heard the person offended and have carried out a minimum of investigations and investigations to acquire the sources of evidence, to assess in concrete terms the danger to the victim and to take the protective measures required by the prosecutor and arranged by the judge of preliminary investigations. In cases of violence governed by the bill in question, attention is focused on the measures that the judge will take immediately without getting lost in the lengths of the trial. There is also strong intervention in the field of prevention, which is the key point from which to address the phenomenon, by providing vocational training courses for the law enforcement agencies carrying out public security and judicial police functions. With regard to the prevention of this type of violence, the new provision introduced in Article 165 of the Criminal Code requires the conditional suspension of the sentence to be subject to the participation in specific recovery routes for those convicted of gender-based violence, with burdens on them. Moreover, for those convicted of sexual crimes against minors, the possibility of psychological treatment with a view to recovery and, finally, the inclusion of the crime of ill-treatment against family members and cohabitants in the list of crimes allowing the application of such measures to suspects. In fact, the law can not only punish, but must provide and put in place all the instruments for the rehabilitation of those who have committed crimes, especially to protect the victims who could continue, without a valid system of prevention and rehabilitation of the culprit, to suffer violence. And here I like to emphasize the broad gaze with which this bill has examined the issue of domestic and gender violence, without dwelling only on the punitive function, but trying to go to the heart of the problem by examining more hypotheses of intervention that can influence effectively for a real contrast to situations of violence. I do not dwell in the details of the changes to the criminal law, but I think it is necessary to highlight the inclusion of the crime of violation of the measures of removal of the violent person from the family home or the prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the person offended, punished with imprisonment, which has the purpose of functioning as a deterrent for the dangerous person in order to avoid encounters, which may seem random, but which produce announced tragedies; the processibility of office for the crime of sexual acts against minors; the obligation of communication to the victim and his lawyer of the release of the aggressor and the necessary introduction of the specific crime of scarring to the face. On this last point I think there is no need to add words. Just think of the faces of women abused and raped by these means of barbarism that scar not only the face, but the physical, social and psychological identity of those who suffer them. The face, our face, is the direct contact between our ego and the world. On the face of each of us you can read your own identity, your own being, your own history and even the changes you experienced during the journey of life. Looking at faces you meet people and communicate. That is why scarring a face means not only harming one of the inviolable rights protected by our Constitution, but destroying the individuality of being a person. All the attitudes of violence, on anyone, who can then lead to deplorable and extreme acts, agitated only by the force of hatred, cannot be tolerated any longer and it is right that we legislators also become aware of it and intervene decisively, as has been done with this bill, which, although of governmental expression, traces the way to an explicit witness of courage and truth and civil values of freedom, democracy and justice on the part of all of us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u38	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to add to the voice of my colleagues who have already identified the most sensitive points of the measure. I do this in order to share some reflections on a bill that inevitably takes steps forward with respect to the legislation in force: it does so on the revenge porn, it does it on permanent injuries to the face, as they damage to a salient part of its identity and personality, and it does so by introducing a crime for the violation of the provisions of removal from the family house or the prohibition of approach to the places frequented by the people of offense. It also does so, perhaps in a different way than we would have done, on the procedures that try to align civil cause and criminal cause, often a source of suffering when the criminal trial goes in a certain way and there is a cause of separation or custody of minors somewhere else. Our criticisms, however, are on very specific points: they are on resources, because we cannot think of dealing without adequate resources with innovative themes such as training for operators, which cross-cuttingly to the whole public administration and in all institutions must be prepared and adapted to the delicate task of dealing with fragile and certainly sensitive subjects or for recovery courses. All this, obviously, this innovation that is also cultural, with the clause of invariance as the Senator Valente well remembered in her speech is not done. We have tried to have a confrontation within the Commissions of merit, in a very concrete and pragmatic way, bringing our proposals, certainly not with the ideological approach that even with contempt of the ridicule and with a certain courage assumed Senator Pillon, the author of a bill on the entrust that contained ideological aspects in quantity. The lesson from Senator Pillon on this side is difficult to accept, also because he has a completely wrong conception of gender violence, let me say: how can one think that gender violence is common violence? [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is a violence that is and fits also in a context where communities have often had indifference, where silence has often prevailed, even in family areas, where that silence has become omerty and omerty has become connivance. To think of comparing it to common violence and what is most wrong there can be and is what divides us. From this point of view, I must say that a multidisciplinary approach has been interrupted, compared to the past and the work done over the last five years. Thinking about dealing with this issue only with security policies is a shortcut that risks not taking us to our destination: when in 2013, first among the European countries, Italy ratified the Istanbul Convention, it did it because from there not only began the implementation of a series of innovative norms, but because there was a design, there was a vision on how to deal with the issue of gender violence, there was the idea that violence against women is a violation of human rights, and that is why we can now also talk about the issue of forced marriages and insert it into a law, as well as the theme of genital mutilation. Not only this, but - as Senator Monica Cirinna well recalled in her minority relationship - living free from violence is a right and not a concession and - a true point of the cultural battle - the absence of gender equality is related to violence and therefore the strengthening of the prerogatives and rights of women in all areas of our lives have to do with the issue of gender violence. From there there was an impressive legislative work, it was remembered by those who intervened before me: on feminicide, on stalking, the plan of extraordinary action, the national plan, the rules on the protection of orphans of feminicide and the norms on work - according to the idea of the multidisciplinary approach - to avoid that those who denounce harassment are demised or worse, fired. Of course all this is not enough, I say it with death in my heart, I say it unfortunately rethinking it with a sense of impotence to the yet another feminicide we have witnessed, that of Debora to Savona by the former husband, who had also served the sentence and had also a prohibition of dwelling. Debora had denounced her ex-husband nineteen times, for nineteen times he had put his trust in the judiciary and in the law enforcement, for nineteen times he had had to repeat his experience before the Forces of order and in some cases before the magistrates, which is why we think, also because we have to repeat the experience several times, that on the three days perhaps one could think more to combine the need for speed and acceleration, of a preferential lane, that there must be, with the need to safeguard a fragile subject, struck in his deepest affections, in his personality. I say this because, alongside concrete measures, we need to take measures that accompany a great cultural battle that sinks its origins into the deepest causes and fights the climate of hatred and sexist messages. In the Istanbul Convention - I say this to Minister Bongiorno - there is an article that more than others needs to be implemented: I refer to Article 17, which deals with the subject of media and social networks. We would need an important legislative initiative - as I said before to Mr Spadafora at the hearing - for full implementation of that article. If we do not put on the agenda the issue of how to deal with the climate of hatred that exists in that emotion blender that are social (often hate culture against women), we risk not making any progress. We must all set an example, starting with politics and the Minister of the Interior, who left the photos of women exposed on their social media, with the drool at the mouth of their followers who have no respect for the pain of people. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani]] I say this because verbal violence, promoted or tolerated, is often a breeding ground for deviant behavior. For this reason, we need a battle without reluctance, to eradicate the climate of hatred and sexist messages, because otherwise the risk we run is to deliver the legislative achievements, even the most innovative ones, to the category of missed opportunities and this we cannot Let's have it. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u40	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that when we talk about violence (all forms of violence, including psychological violence, such as that which for years social workers, with the approval of juvenile judges, have done on minors), it is necessary not only to intervene in the wave of emotion and take appropriate measures, but often untimely, but - first and foremost - to address this issue from a cultural and preventive point of view. When we read the news pages, scandalizing ourselves for certain violence suffered by the victims, we always arrive too late, to violence happened, to buffer - if we get there - a situation that has already occurred, making victims, creating suffering and tearing whole lives. Therefore, this issue cannot be dealt with unless we first invest in an operation aimed at prevention and education. This, unfortunately, is the first lack of this measure, which we are also in favour of. We shall be voting in favour, partly because of the suggestions which, thanks to the work of the Commission, have been approved in the House of Deputies. I hope that tomorrow, during the vote on the amendments, there will be a further reflection on a serious issue which, as such, cannot be left to the emotions of the moment, nor to the slogans. The previous speeches have highlighted what is missing so that the bill to protect victims of violence is truly operational. One fundamental thing has been said: it seems to me that the paradigm has been reversed, as we speak of the woman, but the problem is the abusive man, who, as such, should first be removed from the house. It is not the woman who has to leave the house and often her children (who may remain in the same house as the abuser), to be placed in a shelter protected. Cases of feminicide and family abuse continue to be on the agenda. It emerges from the chronicles that, in most cases, a prompt intervention of the Forces of the Order, but above all of the judicial protection - because the Forces of the Order intervene - could make the difference in the lives of the victims. I say this because in Italy, especially in recent times, we have witnessed episodes that have upset the whole nation. The cases are countless, but I want to remember here the events of Desirée Mariottini and Pamela Mastropietro, whose families, once again, we want to embrace. In particular, if for the terrible case of Pamela Mastropietro was sentenced to life imprisonment a Nigerian, the other two defendants were practically acquitted: there was no additional investigation. Let us see how violence against women can be varied: despite the numbers say that it is a violence that is often carried out at home, in fact a domestic violence, there is also violence outside the domestic walls, carried out by people who did not even have to be on our territory. I take this example because, when we talk about violence against women, we refer to their faces, but they are women who, even before being killed by men, have been killed by the state, a state that has not proved to be there, a state that has not done its duty, despite the rules there were and this puts us in front of the second problem. Before I spoke about prevention, I am now addressing the issue of execution. The incidence of foreigners arrested for sexual violence, for example, is about 42% and, if you go to see the sentences, the figure does not change; however, despite the fact that many of them had already been taken away, they have still remained here. The case of news that Sunday we all unfortunately got to know is the lapidary example of how there is something that doesn't work. As has already been said, Deborah Ballesio was afraid of her ex-husband, who had set the place and the house on fire. He even predicted to a friend what his future would be: she was a prisoner who could not free herself from fear. It wasn't enough for 19 complaints, but it wasn't enough for her ex-girlfriend to be in jail and to repeat the crime. Maybe Deborah wouldn't be killed if, for example, judges were required to warn the victims when their stalker or abusive and abusive subject leaves the prison. It would be very important for the victims to be warned: it would be important that, once they leave prison, these people had the electronic bracelet and there were controls, since the prohibition of approach is not respected. We also think it would be good to put some stakes on the judges when they decide, for example, to halve the sentence against a man accused of feminicide, motivating the reduction with the emotional storm caused by the jealousy of the partner. There are too many cases where justice cannot adequately protect women who are victims of violence. Perhaps it would be time to take away the escort from someone who does not need it and perhaps protect more women on whom violence has been established. As Forza Italia we have been fighting on this issue for years, since 2009. What has been done has been said. The thing that leaves us very sorry is that in the Commission justice here in the Senate, as also reported by Senator Modena and Senator Caliendo, there was no possibility of improving the text compared to formal inconsistencies, but not only, so in fact it will change very little in the protection of victims. It is clear that our penal code must be updated, since it dates back almost ninety years: for example, the crime of revenge porn was certainly not contemplated, which we have introduced to the House, which takes into account the new weapons of destruction of women, devious weapons because they do not leave fingerprints, hide the perpetrators, inculcate enormous suffering to the victim and their relatives and often, as unfortunately has already happened, lead to suicide. The measure, which we judge right from a certain point of view, perhaps more mediaistic because it has many reservations, will certainly not help the abusive men. I believe that if it is right to give a chance and assistance to the abusive man this matter depends on chance. As for psychiatric protection, first of all I would point out that the abusive man can accept or not, whereas he should have this support. Then there are certainly cases - and here it would be up to the judge to decide - in which it is necessary to think whether it is worth wasting money for this purpose: I think of the man who killed a woman in Savona in that way, hurting others present, because in that case I do not know how many chances of recovery and repentance can be. With respect to the reasoning for which every measure, beyond the slogans, must find a concrete implementation in the courtrooms, the red code and the measures contained in this bill are certainly good, even if colleagues Modena and Caliendo in the Commission have tried to make it clear that the obligation to hear the person offended within three days of the registration of the crime news is certainly positive, but it can also happen that the judge says he does not have enough time. It is clear that it should have a scale of priority, but in order to do something concrete it is necessary to equip prosecutors and judicial offices with more staff. You can't ignore the problem of sub-staffing and say "give up," but in three days you have to do it without putting a euro. You can't make a good law if you don't have an investment. Without financial burdens it is difficult to make a good law. It could have been a great signal also to put the civil court in contact with the criminal court: it has been said that the thing that can stop the most women who denounce violence is the possibility that the civil court gives the foster care combined with the abusive man and, for this reason, often the complaints are withdrawn. We do not understand how we can introduce regulatory forecasts for state representatives that involve obligations to do without providing funds. Colleagues, I really hope that tomorrow there will be improvements in common sense, because it is useless to think of making a slogan when you don't put money into it. We audited today at the Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide undersecretary Spadafora, who announced that he will present the anti-violence plan and said that he will fund it. We will see, but there must be - as has been said - precautional implementations. We are therefore trying to adopt amendments which can really deliver a text that is useful to combat violence. [[Applause from the FI-BP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u42	Since work is scheduled for 7 p.m., I am obliged to inform you that a number of Members remain in general discussion and will be able to speak tomorrow morning. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u45	PISANI Giuseppe (M5S). Mr President, yet another tragedy has occurred in the Ragusano, which has taken the lives of two innocent young souls. In this case they are two children aged 12 and 11 who, sitting on the sidewalk of the road, in front of their house, were hit by a racing car. Alessio died instantly, while Simone, after being shot and having suffered the amputation of his legs, fought a few days, but in the end he also flew into heaven and reached his cousin. Alessio and Simone are our children and grandchildren. I want to express my deep condolences, as a grandfather and father, before even as a member of this Senate of the Republic, to the parents and relatives of the two victims. The killer, Rosario Greco, who ran on his SUV in the night in a small street in the historic center of Victoria, was found to have a alcohol content four times higher than the limit allowed and also to have taken cocaine. In his car were found a loose agent and a baseball bat. We must all ask ourselves how it is possible for a man in such a state of alteration, holding weapons capable of offending, to drive his SUV crazyly in the streets of a town. I'm sure justice will punish the culprit for what he did. As a man of the institutions I must note that this story, like many others, tells of a land marred by lawlessness, where for too long the State has not guaranteed a sufficient presence and where, therefore, the law of the strongest applies. This must no longer happen; the State must be present with men and with means adapted to circumstances. Tomorrow I will attend, together with Vice Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio, the funeral of little Simone testifying to our closeness to the relatives of the victims and the firm condemnation of these criminals. We will all work to avoid other immeasurable tragedies such as this and so that the father of Alessio, like all the other inhabitants of Victoria, may remain in their land and in their homes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u46	It is a dramatic fact on which we all join in mourning.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u49	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, I come to talk to you about an affair involving 1,874 men of the State Police who in September 2013 decided to participate in the competition organized by decree of the Ministry of the Interior for access to the training course for the appointment of deputy inspector of the State Police. The competition notice and the regulatory references contained in it are very clear and indicate that the places put into competition are related to organic holidays completed from 2001 to 2004. Consequently, those who had passed the ninth training course would have the right to be appointed Deputy Inspectors of the State Police to all effect from 1 January of the year following that for whose holidays or shortages of staff the competition has been called and, therefore, since 1 January 2005. Unfortunately, the competition lasts about four years. Those who have applied are admitted from 12 September 2017 to attend the ninth training course and at the end obtain the appointment to the qualification of Deputy Inspector with effect from 12 March 2018 and, that is, at the end of the course and after having supported a final test. Strange but true is the fact that the call for competition did not expressly indicate - nor did the rules dedicated to the role of inspectors - a precise date from which the legal and economic effects of the entry into the role of the Deputy Inspectors themselves would take effect. Even more strange and incomprehensible, but equally true is the fact that from this lack the administration has obtained the decision that the entry in role, following the passing of the course, should coincide with the date of the conclusion of the training course. It is clear that the fundamental rights of competitors have been seriously affected both by the violation of the principle of equality, and by the violation of the principle of good performance and impartiality of the administration for the delay with which the ban was issued in 2013, despite the fact that the staff holidays went back to 2001, for the competitive procedure that lasted for a further four years. For these reasons, I submitted the written question 4-01900 addressed to the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Public Administration. My wish and of all those men of the State Police is to work in a way that protects and allows the implementation in a full and effective way...
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u50	I would ask you to conclude because it is clear that you have asked for an answer to this question. WOMAN (M5S). ...to work for the full and effective implementation of the fundamental rights of our legal system and to take initiatives, including of a regulatory nature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is It is enough, when you want to ask a question, to give the extremes. If it is carried out in its entirety, it is not a reminder, especially if time does not allow it.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u53	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I would also like to ask a question which asks the Ministry of Economic Development to intervene on the affair of Mercato Uno and to meet the workers and workers of this company. It is a fundamental crisis; it involves 1,800 people, 55 points of sale; an analysis is being carried out for fraud. This is a very dramatic situation. These people are asking for a meeting. I think it would be perfectly normal for the Minister for Labour or the Minister for Economic Development or the Vice President of the Council - he chooses the dress he wants - instead of announcing the abolition of poverty, to take care of people living in poverty because there is a crisis in the company. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The Minister, on the other hand, did not want to meet them in any of the three functions. This situation is in no way guarded. We know that the Ministry has followed all previous situations with great caution. In the meantime, I would like to ask an urgent answer - our Group has already asked questions on several occasions in this regard - and above all I would ask the Minister, instead of making proclamations, to work to resolve the problems of Italian citizens and citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u54	I'm sure your prayer will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2019-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-133.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 17 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.07.
